Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22326
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37580; SCL-3758A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 13.2 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
TAX ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
September 21, 2001
LCSPS
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Dollar (J$)
J$ 1 = US$ 0.022
US$ 1 = J$45.5
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CF           Central Facilities
DDCF         Decentralized Data Capture Facilities
DG           Director General
FMIS         Financial Management Infornation System
FD           Framework Document
GCT          General Consumption Tax
GOJ          Government of Jamaica
HRMIS        Human Resource Management Information System
ICTAS        Integrated Computerized Tax Administration System
JPSMP        Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NCRS         New Cash Remittance System
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RAA          Revenue Administration Act
TAAD         Tax Audit and Assessment Department
TAD          Taxpayer Appeals Department
TASD         Tax Administration Services Department
TOT          Training of Trainers
TRN          Taxpayer Registration Number
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Claudia M. Costin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jit Bahadur S. Gill



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
TAX ADMINISTRATION REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                             23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007489                                         Project Name: JM TAX ADMINISTRATION
Team Leader: Jit Bahadur S. Gill                            TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: September 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: JM TAX ADMINISTRATION                            LI/C/TFNumber: CPL-37580;
SCL-3758A
Country/Department: JAMAICA                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/25/1993                                Effective:  10/18/1994         01/13/1995
Appraisal:  11/12/1993                                 MTR:                        08/20/1997
Approval:  06/16/1994                                Closing:  12/31/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                            Shahid Hussain
Country Manager:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                     Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:       Claudia M. Costin                           Malcolm Rowat
Team Leader at ICR:   Jit Bahadur S. Gill                         Luis-Jose Mejia
ICR Primary Author:   Sati Achath and Jit Gill
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=High;y Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3,1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the project were to raise revenues without increasing tax rates by: (i)
broadening the tax base; (ii) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the tax administration by (a)
strengthening the organization and management of tax departments, (b) improving control of tax evasion
and (c) improving tax collections; and (iii) encouraging voluntary compliance. The objectives were closely
linked to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and directly responded to the development
priorities of the Government of Jamaica (GOJ), as articulated in its Medium Term Policy Framcwork. By
strengthening the institutional capacity of the tax administration to collect taxes with increased efficiency
and effectiveness, the project sought to support the goals of achieving macro-economic stability, enabling
the government to incur high priority public expenditures and reducing the public debt. In addition, the
project aimed to spur private sector development through more equitable enforcement of tax laws and
reduced tax compliance costs. Finally, the reform of the tax administration constituted a major step in
GOJ's ongoing efforts to modernize its public sector. The project objectives were clearly stated. The
project was no doubt complex as it involved major institutional and organizational changes. It demanded
considerable attention and effort on the part of the government and the implementing agencies. Also,
scarce managerial and technical resources and limited absorptive capacity of the tax departments posed
some risks. These risks were mitigated through the design of effective project implementation
arrangements and adoption of appropriate change management strategies.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components: (i) Broaden the Tax Base by increasing the number of
registered taxpayers and reducing the number of deductions, exemptions and concessions granted by the tax
laws; (ii) Strengthen the Organization and Management of Tax Administration by restructuring the tax
departments on functional lines, introducing modem management systems, improving training and
remuneration structure, constructing new integrated Revenue Centers and refurbishing existing tax offices;
(iii) Improve the Control of Tax Evasion by strengthening the investigation, auditing and assessment
capabilities of the tax departments; (iv) Improve Tax Collections by introducing new collection systems
and improving recovery of tax arrears; and (v) Facilitate Voluntary Compliance by improving the equity,
fairness and efficiency of the tax system and reducing the cost of compliance.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry of the project was highly satisfactory. As mentioned above, project objectives were
consistent with the CAS and the Government's strategic priorities. The project addressed critical needs of
the Borrower. The project design was based on a multidimensional diagnosis of shortcomings in tax
policy, the legal framework of tax administration, administrative arrangements for collection of withholding
taxes and contributions, control of tax evasion, tax collection, voluntary compliance, organizational
structure of tax departments, management systems, and computerization. Project components were tightly
linked to project objectives and represented an integrated approach to achieving sustainable improvements
in revenue collection. Lessons learned from similar projects in other countries and earlier projects in
Jamaica were incorporated in the project design. These included complementing investments in
computerization and strengthening of technical areas with institutional reforms in organization and
management and taxpayer service; strengthening implementation capacity by staffing the PCU with
- 2 -



competent long term consultants and bringing in state- of-the-art skills through international consultants;
paying adequate attention to human resource management issues, especially the salary structure, career
paths and anti-corruption; and introducing international best practices, such as a functional organizational
structure, a Unique Taxpayer Registration Number (TRN); and an Integrated Computerized Tax
Administration System (ICTAS). In hindsight, greater involvement of external stakeholders in project
preparation would have quickened the passage of legislation to strengthen enforcement powers of the tax
administration. Also, the assumption that information systems developed for tax administration in
Argentina could be easily transplanted in Jamaica, did not eventually hold. After additional study, the
Argentine system was not found to be suitable and the ICTAS was developed from a scratch.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has achieved its development objectives. Tax revenues, excluding customs, increased from
22.26% of GDP in 1995-96 to 24.22% in 2000-2001 and by 8.9% in real terms., without increase in tax
rates. The number of registered taxpayers has increased by 60% since 1995-96. Fragmentation of
important taxation processes and duplication of functions has been minimized through reorganization of tax
departments on functional lines. A first step has bee taken towards creating a results-oriented management
culture, by instituting a new autonomy and accountability framework for senior management. The capacity
of management to take informed strategic and operational decisions has been enhanced through the
implementation of modern management information systems. Significant improvements in human resource
management have been made, including improved salaries, career paths and performance evaluation
systems and strengthened oversight to prevent corruption. The capacity of the tax administration to
counter tax evasion and fraud has been increased through strengthening of its enforcement powers, creation
of a specialized assessment and audit department, provision of vehicles to field officers and strengthened
legal services. Average Tax Audit productivity has increased by 60% and 97%, in real terms, for GCT and
Income Tax, respectively, between 1995-96 to 1999-2000. The efficiency of operations and timeliness of
monitoring and enforcement of tax compliance have improved through the implementation of ICTAS and
modernization of the IT infrastructure. Compliance costs for taxpayers have been reduced through
commissioning of two new integrated Revenue Centers, providing all services relating to different taxes
under one roof; reduction in time taken to complete important processes; simplification of forms and
procedures; enhanced taxpayer assistance in tax offices and through a telephone hot line; and intensified
taxpayer education through conventional media and the internet. The transparency and faimess of the
appeals process has been enhanced by the creation of a special Taxpayer Appeals Department. Tax offices
have been refurbished to create a better working environment for tax officials as well as taxpayers.
Finally, managerial and technical capacity of the tax administration has been augmented by extensive
training activities covering a broad range of subjects. Taxpayer feedback on the quality of service provided
by the tax administration has been generally very positive.
While improvements in the functioning of the tax administration are already visible in the form of improved
collections, increased taxpayer registration, increased audit productivity and enhanced taxpayer
satisfaction, some more time will be needed to fully assess the impact of the project. This is on account of
the fact that the new organizational structure and information systems have been implemented only
recently.
4.2 Outputs by components:
I. Broaden the Tax Base:
The Revenue Administration Act (RAA) was amended to require all persons having transactions with the
tax administration to obtain a Taxpayer Registration Number (TRN). A computerized system to allot the
- 3 -



TRN was implemented. More than 600 staff were trained in 30 separate training programs for the
allotment of the TRN. As of March 31, 2001, TRN had been allotted to 1,059,450 taxpayers. In addition,
to strengthening the Ministry of Finance's capacity to widen the tax base through tax policy improvements,
a model for General Consumption Tax (GCT) analysis was developed and implemented. Two staff
members of the Tax Policy Unit were trained at the Harvard Intemational Tax Program in tax policy
analysis and use of computerized analytical tools.
II. Improve Efficiency and Effectiveness of Tax Administration
A.    Strengthening Organization and Management of Tax Administration:
Tax departments were reorganized on functional lines. A new office of the Director General of Tax
Administration was created to supervise all tax departments and help reduce the span of control of the
Financial Secretary. Retums processing, tax collection and compliance functions for all taxes were
consolidated under the Inland Revenue Department (IRD). A Tax Audit and Assessment Department
(TAAD) was created, with the responsibility for assessments, audits and investigations related to all taxes.
A new Taxpayer Appeals Department (TAD) was established to enhance the objectivity and faimess of the
administrative appeals process. The responsibility for investigation of corruption allegations against tax
officials was transferred to the Revenue Protection Department (RPD), which already had such
responsibility with regard to customs officials. An Intemal Audit Unit has been established in the RPD for
this purpose. A new Tax Administration Services Department (TASD), was created to provide common
services, such as management of the TRN, legal services, taxpayer education, staff training, civil works
and procurement. Fiscal Services Ltd. continued to be the informatics arm of the tax administration, with
responsibility for implementing and maintaining the ICTAS and other tax administration information
systems. Tax departments administering individual taxes, namely the Income Tax Department, the General
Consumption Tax (GCT) Department and the Stamp Duty and Transfer Tax Department were abolished.
Also, the Revenue Board, a statutory body, was abolished and its functions were transferred to the TASD.
In order to enhance managerial accountability, new concepts developed under the Jamaica Public Sector
Modernization Project (PSMP), which came on stream after this project started, were also applied to tax
administration. Framework Documents (FDs), laying down the respective roles of the Minister of Finance,
the Financial Secretary, the Director General of Tax Administration and Commissioners as well as the
autonomy and accountability framework for tax administration were developed and implemented.
All functions in the new departments were redefined and new job descriptions prepared. Recruitment
standards for all positions were established. Career paths were defined for different professional streams.
A new salary structure was implemented for tax administration staff. It significantly improved the salary
of staff at middle and lower levels, where the tumover was the highest. Salaries at the higher level of the
organization were not substantially increased, however, as these are set with reference to salaries of
Permanent Secretaries.
Senior management positions in the reorganized tax administration were advertised and appointments were
made through a competitive selection process. Other staff were evaluated on the basis of interviews and
skill profiles. Officials found to be unsuitable for placement in the new departments were referred to the
Public Service Commission (PSC) for altemative assignment.
- 4 -



To strengthen strategic planning, goal setting, monitoring and performance evaluation policies, a Planning
Unit was established in each Department. A Corporate and Project Management Specialist has been
appointed in the Director General's Office to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the preparation and
execution of corporate plans of the tax administration. A new performance evaluation system for staff was
implemented. Management information systems were significantly improved. The ICTAS provides a
wide range of operational information to management. In contrast to the past, where information was
fragmented by tax type, the new system provides integrated information relating to taxpayer registration,
filing of retums, tax collections, taxpayer accounts and compliance history, selection of cases for tax audits
and results of audits, case tracking, tax arrears and tax compliance certificates. Additional management
information is provided by complimentary systems for motor vehicle registration, issue of driver's licenses
and property tax, that were developed by FSL outside the ICTAS. The Human Resource Management
Information System (HRMIS) and the Financial Management Information System (FMIS), developed
under another Bank-financed project, provide information for personnel and financial management.
Extensive training programs were organized. More than 2,444 staff received training in 137 training
programs. Training courses focused on the new roles that staff would need to perform in the new structure
and the skills they would need for the purpose. Training courses included team building, strategic planning,
supervisory management, personnel management, intemal audit, taxpayer service, cashiering, compliance,
tax audit, computer systems and specific computerized applications. Participants in these courses included
senior managers, middle managers and front line staff. In most training programs organized under the
project, a Change Management component was included to sensitize the staff and build ownership for the
reform process.
New integrated Revenue Centers, financed entirely by GOJ, were constructed and commissioned at
Montego Bay and Spanish Town to provide one-stop service to taxpayers for taxpayer registration,
submission of tax retums, payment of taxes, issue of tax clearance certificates, registration of vehicles and
issue of driver's licenses. The Montego Bay center also provides services relating to submission of customs
declarations and payment of customs duties. The building for a Revenue Center at May Pen is nearing
completion. A new collectorate at Cross Roads, Kingston was established to improve taxpayer service in
the Kingston corporate area. In view of demographic trends and workload, GOJ decided not to construct
new buildings at Morants Bay and Central Region, as originally planned. The collectorate at Port Antonio
is being remodeled and extended. Tax offices at Linstead, Old Harbour, St. Ann's Bay and Jackson Town
were extensively refurbished. In addition, 18 other collectorates were renovated.
To effectively manage the change, Implementation Teams, consisting of representatives from the
management and the staff, were formed in each department to explain the objective and benefits of the
reform program, the rationale for moving to a functional organizational structure and to address staff
concems about their future employment and job content. The Implementation Teams worked closely with
the Steering Committee and provided feedback to the management and staff, thus, facilitating the change
process.
B. Improving Control of Tax Evasion
Automated systems for detection of noncompliance, such as non-filing, stop filing and nonpayment of
taxes, have been implemented as part of ICTAS. The responsibility for monitoring compliance and taking
remedial actions has been transferred to the Inland Revenue Department, to exploit its extensive
geographical coverage and close contact with taxpayers. As mentioned above, a new Tax Assessment and
Audit Department (TAAD) has been created for carrying out investigations, audits and assessments under
all tax laws. This arrangement has led to more effective utilization of scarce teclhnical skills pertaining to
- 5 -



these critical areas. It also enables the department to examine taxpayer returns, transactions and tax
liabilities for different taxes in an integrated manner. Further, it provides the TAAD the opportunity to
acquire greater specialization in assessment and audit techniques. New methodologies, including
computerized audit selection system and case tracking have been implemented. A Tax Fraud Investigations
Unit has been established in the TAAD to gather information on tax evasion. In order to enable the tax
administration to effectively combat tax evasion, its enforcement powers were enhanced by amendment of
the Revenue Administration Act. In particular, powers relating to search and seizure; impounding of
incriminating documents; requisition of information from third parties, including banks and financial
institutions; sharing of information between tax departments; and survey of business premises were
strengthened. Extensive training to auditors and investigators was provided under the project. Between
1997 and December 2000, 697 staff (mostly auditors, but also compliance officers and staff in related
functions) were trained in 36 training programs. In order to increase mobility of officers engaged in field
audits and recovery of arrears, 35 cars were purchased and leased to auditors and compliance officers. To
improve representation before appellate authorities, the Legal Unit of the TASD was strengthened by
recruitment of additional staff and training. As a result, qualified lawyers now represent the tax
administration in cases before the Resident Magistrates. The legal library was updated and databases of
Jamaican and UK tax laws were purchased and made available to staff. On account of these measures, the
institutional capacity of the tax administration to monitor compliance and control tax evasion was
significantly strengthened.
The Land Valuation Department (LVD) which carries out valuation for property tax purposes, was initially
covered under the project. However, it was, subsequently, incorporated into the newly created National
Land Agency (NLA). The NLA has been converted into an Executive Agency and is receiving extensive
assistance through the PSMP. Therefore, no action was taken with regard to the LVD under this project.
C. Improve Tax Collection
In order to overcome the serious problems encountered in the existing data processing system for tax
collection, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) had recommended, as one of the options, the implementation
of the Argentine Tax Collection System in Jamaica. A detailed evaluation of this system was carried out
and it was not found to be suitable for various reasons, including the following: it was not a complete
integrated tax system; the system was written in Cobol, which would have required continued support of a
third generation language; the use of Oracle for the RDBMS required a shift from FSL's Informix
standard, implying additional RDBMS maintenance costs; a great amount of time and effort would have
been needed for translation of forms, triggers, reports and Cobol programs to from Spanish to English, to
allow FSL to maintain the system; and complete technical manuals were not available. Consequently, it
was decided to develop the ICTAS software with the help of an international consultancy firm. This
decision had significant impact on the implementation schedule and cost of the system. Some of the system
modules developed by FSL in parallel, were integrated into the ICTAS.
The ICTAS includes the following modules: (a) Taxpayer Registration module; (b) New Cash Remittance
System (NCRS) for acceptance of a tax return; establishing the fact offiling the return; creation of
obligations for tax payments based on the retum; batching of returns according to tax type; collection of
taxes; computation of penalties and interest; accounting of tax payments according to taxpayer, tax type
etc.; printing of motor vehicle registration certificates and tax receipts; monitoring of cashiers;
reconciliation of accounts; generation of end-of-the day balances; and transmission of transactions to the
Central Facility at the end of business; (c) Tax Compliance Certificate Module to issue tax clearance
certificates to taxpayers based on their tax compliance status; (d) Tax Accounting Module containing
individual ledgers for each taxpayer and tax type, and comprehensive tax payment profile of taxpayers
- 6 -



covering multiple taxes and effects of audits, assessments, appeals and refunds; (e) Revenue Accounting
Module to account for aggregate revenue collections and refunds under various tax heads; (f) Compliance
Module to detect non-filing, stop filing, nonpayment, under-payment of taxes etc. and issue automated
notices to taxpayers; (g) Classijfication/Audit Selection Module to classify the compliance behavior of
taxpayers and select cases for audits based on predetermined criteria; (h) Case Management system, in
Lotus Notes, to monitor progress of cases for compliance, arrears recovery, audits and appeals, etc.; (i)
Audit module to allow adjustments in the tax liability based on audits and assessments; (j) Return
Processing/Electronic Filing, to perform decentralized capture of statistical data on tax retums and
transmit the data to the Central Facility for further processing; and (k) Conversion Module to convert
existing data from the legacy systems to the ICTAS. For the purpose of implementing the ICTAS, major
infrastructure improvements, including structured cabling for data flows, Local Area Networks (LANs),
phone lines, UPSs and upgrading of electrical systems were made at different sites. The system has been
implemented at 28 Collectrates, two Decentralized Data Capture Facilities, two Central Facilities (FSL and
Montego Bay) and the head quarters of the DG and the Commissioners. The capacity of FSL was also
strengthened through upgrade of equipment and procurement of additional equipment and staff training.
Extensive training was provided to system users.
To improve the management of tax arrears, teams were created to update taxpayer ledger cards, transfer
the information to a computerized database and undertake the quantification, evaluation and substantial
clearing of tax arrears.
III. Facilitate Voluntary Compliance
Various initiatives have been implemented to reduce compliance costs. As a result of reorganization of
departments on functional lines, the creation of one-stop Revenue Centers, implementation of ICTAS and
other computer systems and simplification of forms and business processes, the average time taken to
complete some of the processes important to taxpayers has been significantly shortened. For instance a
TRN is now issued on the same day in offices connected online and within 3 weeks in off-line offices, as
against in 7 weeks at the beginning of the project. Tax Clearance Certificate is issued within 20-30
minutes, if all documents are in order, as against in 4 weeks earlier. Similarly, filing of a tax return and
payment of taxes can be completed in 10 to 30 minutes, compared to 2 hours taken at the start of the
project. Taxpayers are now able to deposit their returns and payments for different taxes at the same
office. They can also do so at offices other than those that have jurisdiction over them. Also, payments for
different taxes can be aggregated in a single check. Taxpayer waiting areas at the new Revenue Centers
have been designed with a view to minimize inconvenience to visiting taxpayers. Taxpayer information
units have been established in all departments and offices to answer taxpayer queries and pre-check
documents. Floor walkers assist taxpayers waiting in line. Extensive training was provided to front line
staff in taxpayer assistance to raise the quality of service. An internet site was developed to provide forms
for various taxes as well as information on tax procedures, deadlines and tax law changes. Regular
taxpayer education programs were carried out. A telephone hot line was established to provide
clarifications to tax compliance issues. Although formal Grievance Units, as envisaged under the project,
were not established, Commissioners receive complaints from taxpayers and take remedial actions. A
full-fledged Taxpayer Appeals Department, under a Commissioner, has been created to expedite resolution
of disputes and improve the equity and objectivity of the administrative appellate process.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
-7 -



Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was significant. The steps taken to reduce compliance
costs, assist and educate taxpayers and improve the impartiality of the appeals process have increased the
incentives for voluntary compliance. At the same time, changes in the Revenue Administration Act to
require taxpayer registration and enable collection of third party information, exchange information
between departments, survey of business premises and search and seizure of incriminating evidence of tax
evasion have significantly changed the rules of the game in favor of more forceful enforcement of the tax
laws. This carrot and stick combination is expected to improve the overall level of tax compliance. At the
administrative level, the organization of departrnents on functional lines, clearer definition of functions and
jobs, new management information systems and enhanced capacity for strategy formulation, planning and
monitoring have improved the management's ability to utilize resources optimally. Simultaneously, the
quality of human and physical resources has improved due to the careful screening of all managers and
staff before their transfer to the new departments, extensive training, construction of new offices and
refurbishing of older offices, installation of a modem of IT infrastructure and provision of vehicles for field
work. Improved salaries for middle and lower level staff and structured career paths have created
incentives for performance, while Framework Documents, the new performance evaluation system and
strengthening of internal audit and anti-corruption arrangements have enhanced accountability for
performance and personal conduct.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The amendments to the Revenue Administration Act (RAA), to increase the enforcement powers of tax
administration, were passed by the lower House of Parliament, but met with resistance in the Senate. The
government, therefore, undertook an year-long process of consultation to explain the intent of the
legislation, hear objections and build consensus. The amendments were eventually passed by both Houses
of Parliament, with some marginal adjustments to address stakeholder concerns.
Some time was consumed in the process of evaluation of the Argentine system and in concluding that it was
not suitable for Jamaica. The usually lengthy International Competitive Bidding (ICB) processes had to be
followed, thereafter, to select a firm to develop the ICTAS. The process of development of a new system
was also intrinsically longer than that of adaptation of an existing system. High staff turnover in the
contracted firm and the change of the Team Leader at the firm half way through the project also introduced
discontinuities and delays in system development. The cumulative effect of these factors was considerable
delay in commissioning of the ICTAS. Further, the development of a new system also implied higher costs.
This necessitated partial reallocation of funds of other components to system development affecting, to
some extent, the implementation of activities under those components.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The presentation to Parliament of the RAA amendments as well as those relating to reorganization of the
tax departments was also delayed due to the financial sector crisis, which pushed these amendments down
the legislative agenda. The delay in passage of the legislation affected the start of some of the activities to
control tax evasion. It also pushed back the reorganization of the departments. Additional delays were
experienced in the appointment of the Director General and the Commissioners of the new departments.
This impacted, some what, on the quality of leadership that the Steering Committee could provide to the
project. Administrative delays were also encountered in getting the job descriptions and the new salary
structure approved by the Management Development Division and the Ministry of Finance.
- 8 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The lack of experience in informatics amongst most members of the Steering Committee led to slow
approval of outputs of ICTAS consultants. Also the process of user-testing of the system was longer than
expected. This was due to the fact that users were exposed to the finished product rather late in the
development process. Second, users asked for various enhancements, many of which were not in the
original specifications.
Since many of the project-related activities such as scheduling of interviews to screen staff for placement in
the new organizational structure were done by the staff of the tax departments in addition to their normal
day-to-day operations, these activities took longer than planned. Likewise, since the Commissioners were
preoccupied with managing their departments, they were not always able to give project activities the
required priority. Some delays were also experienced in implementation of planned training programs.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was $32.18 million, compared to the Appraisal estimate of $41.97. The
shortfall is mainly due to reduction of the scope of and lags in civil works, an activity solely financed out of
counterpart funds. The construction and renovation of Revenue Centers will continue on an ongoing basis.
During project implementation, funds were reallocated among various components. The resources used for
the component for improving tax collection increased from $6.50 million to $13.36 million. This was due
to higher than estimated cost of developing the ICTAS software. This also necessitated reallocation of
funds from other components. Consequently, the actual cost of the component for strengthening the
organization and management of tax departments was $13.32 million compared to the appraisal estimate of
$24.50 million, and the actual cost of the component for controlling tax evasion decreased from estimated
$3.81 million to 0.47 million. The actual cost of PCU increased to $3.03 million compared to the
estimated $1.02 million. The reasons for the increase were: (a) the work of the unit changed significantly,
due to the decision to develop integrated tax application instead of using the Argentina system. Costs were
incurred to set up an office for a team of about 25 consultants, transportation, etc.; (b) the unit took on the
responsibility for training and incurred expenses on hiring a long-term Training Specialist and delivering
training courses; and (c) during the transition period, the services of an HRM Specialist were engaged to
coordinate change management activities. There were minor variations in project cost for other
components as well.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The sustainability of the project is highly likely. Considering the continuing difficult fiscal situation, the
government is likely to support measures to sustain improvements introduced in the tax administration by
the project. Changes in the organizational structure have been fully implemented, after active involvement
of the staff, and are not likely to reversed. Legal changes to enhance the enforcement powers of the tax
administration also appear to have been accepted by the taxpayers. The MOF is willing to meet the costs
of maintaining the new information systems and widening their coverage. ICTAS has been taken over by
FSL which, by virtue of its close involvement in the design, development and testing of the system from the
beginning of the project, has the technical capacity and know-how to run the system effectively. The
government is also committed to continue efforts to improve taxpayer services. Sustainability of project
advances would, however, also depend on the effectiveness of leadership provided by the Director General
and the Commissioners, seriousness in implementation of the accountability system established by the
Framework Documents, the degree to which the additional legal powers are employed to counter tax
evasion and continual upgrading of technical and managerial skills through training activities led by the
TASD. GOJ would also need to address the issue of salaries of higher level staff, to ensure high quality
-9-



management of the tax departments.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since most of the regular operations have already started before project closing, only minimal transition
arrangements are needed. At this time the ICTAS has been installed throughout the country. The process
of fine-tuning of the system and putting all its modules into full production is expected to be completed
before the end of calendar year 2001. The Office of the Director General of Tax Administration is fully
functional and is coordinating and monitoring activities required to ensure deeper institutionalization of the
reforms introduced by the project. GOJ proposes to procure additional PCs to provide access to the
ICTAS to additional staff.
The project's impact in future years can be measured using the following indicators:
*   Total tax revenue, excluding Customs duties, collected/ GDP.
*  Number of registered taxpayers.
*   Average amount of additional revenue collected in cases selected for tax audit.
*   % of Tax Revenues in Arrears/Total Tax Revenue Collected.
3   Administrative Costs/Total Revenue Collected.
3   The degree of satisfaction of taxpayers with the tax administration as indicated through surveys.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. The Bank was proactive in
initiating dialogue with the Government and the Ministry of Finance for reform of tax administration. This
was also in line with the CAS and the government's development priorities. Project preparation was
well-organized and thorough. The Bank assembled an excellent team, that included experts in tax policy
and tax administration. The team incorporated state-of-the-art features and lessons leamed from other
projects into project design. The project was one of the first in the Bank that focused not only on
developing technical functions of tax administration, but also on organization and management and
taxpayer service. During project appraisal, the Bank realistically assessed the project's risks and benefits
as well as the commitment of the Borrower to the project. Clear performance indicators were laid down.
Extensive dialogue and consultation with counterparts was undertaken and strong Borrower ownership for
the project was developed. The Bank had very good relations with the Borrower during project preparation
and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the six years of
project implementation, on an average there were two missions per year. Additional supervision in the field
was also carried out at the time of supervision of two other projects, namely, the Jamaica Financial and
Program Management Inprovement Project and the PSMP. Supervision teams included specialists in tax
administration, public sector management, and training. Bank staff worked closely with the Government
and the implementing agencies. The Bank's task team provided extensive technical assistance to the
Government, including comments on legislative drafts, the Master Plan, the Transition Plan, ICTAS design
documents and numerous technical reports prepared by international consultants and examples of best
practices in various areas, such as search and seizure procedures. With a view to enable counterparts to
put their implementation endeavors in an international context, the Bank team shared experience of similar
projects that were being contemporaneously implemented in Colombia, Latvia and Russia. Also new
- 10-



concepts being piloted under the PSMP were introduced in this project as well. The Bank team
participated in discussions between the govemrnment and international consultants working on the project, to
resolve legal, technical and implementation issues. Bank Guidelines for procurement of goods and
engagement of consultants as well as legal covenants were strictly enforced. Audit reports on the project
were closely monitored and appropriate guidance was provided to the PMU. Borrower requests for
reallocation of funds were objectively assessed and acted upon. Supervision missions invariably resulted in
detailed Aide-memoires, that included component by component review of project progress, identification
of problems and agreements on how these would be resolved. The Form 590s and PSRs realistically rated
the performance of the project, both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. The Bank also assisted the Govemment in resolving inter-institutional issues involving the
Ministry of Finance, the Revenue Board, the FSL, and the Management Development Division. The Bank
team had very close, professional relationships with the Financial Secretary, Steering Committee members
and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed a high level of commitrnent to the objectives of the project. Government
officials and staff of implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project tearn on a continual
basis, actively participating in the diagnostic process and in designing project interventions.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Goveniment performance during implementation was satisfactory. The project enjoyed the support of
the Minister of Finance throughout its implementation. The Financial Secretary, provided invaluable
strategic leadership on a continuing basis. Although due to macro-economic constraints, the project
experienced shortage of counterpart funds, it was always accorded a high priority in allocation of scarce
budgetary resources. The government invested political capital in proposing amendments to the RAA to
increase the enforcement powers of tax administration and eventually succeeded in getting the legislation
passed, in spite of initial opposition. Some avoidable delays were, however, experienced in the
appointment of the Director General and Commissioners of the new departments. Also salaries of higher
level positions in the tax administration were not significantly increased, due to their linkage to salaries of
Pennanent Secretaries.
The Borrower fully complied with the covenants from the Loan Agreement regarding: (i) maintaining a
Special Account in a commercial bank; (ii) maintaining the PCU; (iii) maintaining the Steering Committee;
(iv) furnishing the six-monthly progress reports on project implementation; (v) reviewing the project
annually; (vi) furnishing the Master Plan for carrying out part B of the project; (viii) preparing a plan of
action aimed at streamlining the assessment, collection, refund and tax clearance procedures; restricting
tax administration discretion in the determination of tax liabilities; improving tax appellate system; and
imposing penalties for noncompliance with tax obligations (ix) preparing the Operational Manual; (x)
presenting to the Parliament the Tax and Information Bills to amend tax legislation and the Bill to establish
taxpayer registration system; (xi) adopting regulations for the leasing program under Part C.6 of the
Project; (xii) maintaining the records of the Loan Account; and (xiii) auditing the Special Account
annually. With regard to the covenant that required the carrying out of a study under Part A of the Project
on the Borrower's tax legal framework and furnishing the study to the Bank for its review and comments,
the Borrower, with the Bank's approval, accomplished the objectives of the study through a set of activities
- 1 1 -



which included (a) analysis of the legal framework of tax administration carried out in the course of
preparation of the Modernization Plan and Transition Plan for the tax departments; (b) tax policy studies
on specific issues conducted by the Ministry of Finance using its own resources; and (c) development of a
Model for analysis of General Consumption Tax (GCT).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the Implementing agency, the Ministry of Finance, was satisfactory. The ministry created
a highly motivated, well-staffed and stable PCU, headed by a senior retired civil servant. The PCU
implemented the project with considerable enthusiasm and maturity. Very difficult contractual and change
management issues were successfully resolved. The PCU was well-organized and effectively followed
procedures established under the Loan Agreement for reporting, procurement, contracting, disbursement,
accounting and auditing. Appropriate levels of review and approval were in place, expenditures were duly
authorized before these were incurred and documentation was maintained on site for an adequate period of
time for the purpose of review. The project benefited from the involvement of all senior managers of tax
administration, the Chief Parliamentary Counsel and FSL in the Steering Committee, which met on a
regular basis to review project progress and take major decisions. A number of seminars were conducted
to educate staff in understanding the imnplications of the reforms in tax administration. Also
Implementation Teams were created in each department to facilitate change.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Project Implementation
*   Legal changes aimed at strengthening the tax administration's enforcement powers, are likely to meet
with opposition from vested interests. These should, therefore, be accompanied by proactive efforts to
explain their rationale and purpose to taxpayers, representative associations and legislators. In this
effort, safeguards built into the proposed legislation to protect taxpayers rights should be highlighted.
Also, it may be desirable to enact required legislation before starting implementation the project or
early in the project cycle.
*   It would be desirable to sequence project activities in such a manner that changes in the organizational
structure and functions of different departments and offices precede IT system development.
Uncertainties regarding departmental structure, roles and responsibilities make it difficult to precisely
define system requirements. Also, organizational changes during system development lead to
considerable rework, higher costs and implementation delays.
*   In projects involving organizational restructuring, senior management positions in the new
organizational structure should be filled up as early as possible. This would help in putting persons,
who have a stake in the success of the project, in positions of authority; enhance accountability for
results; and prevent managers who are not likely to be retained from obstructing change or, are at best,
providing half-hearted leadership.
*   Line managers and staff should be closely involved with project activities. Since they often have many
other demands on their time, full-time Implementation Teams should be created in different functional
areas. These teams should act as a link between line departments and the Project, keeping managers
and staff abreast of project developments, getting their inputs at critical milestones in the
- 12 -



implementation process and ensuring that project outputs remain focused on business needs of the
organization.
*   Having the same Task Team manage related projects in the same sector in a country provides synergy
and cross-fertilization among the projects, besides reducing supervision cost.
Information Systems Development and Implementation
*   Potentially lower costs and a shorter implementation period make the option to use off-the-shelf
application software attractive. But this option has significant risks. If the chosen package is,
subsequently, found to be unsuitable, it could result in higher costs and delayed implementation.
Therefore, this option should be adopted only after careful analysis of business requirements and a
detailed evaluation of available packages, preferably carried out in real life settings.
*   Management of software development contracts requires a high level of technical skills. Therefore, the
Project Steering Committee and the Project Coordination Unit should include experts in tax
administration and IT, who can monitor and guide the contractor and have the authority to take the
required technical decisions.
*   It would be useful to implement individual modules of large information systems as soon these are
ready, rather than waiting for full development of the system. This would provide more timely user
feedback to inform the development process; flatten the leaming curve for users; and facilitate
organizational change by demonstrating project benefits early in the implementation period.
* In view of the project's experience in managing the contract for development of the ICTAS software, it
appears that it may be preferable to have a lump sum contract for delivery of predefined outputs, rather
than a contract based on time spent by the contractor in system development. The former type of
contract would give a Borrower greater control over the quality of products delivered by the
consultants.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BACKGROUND
Following on the completion of successful negotiation in May 1994, a Loan Agreement dated July 18,
1994, was entered into between the Government of Jamaica and the IBRD for the co-financing of a project
for tax reform. This project was to continue and support previous reform activities which had focussed
primarily on the tax structure, by effecting a comprehensive reform of the tax administration to
significantly improve its revenue raising capability.
Since the early 1980s the Government has initiated fundamental policy reforms efforts, the central
economic objective of which is to achieve a high and stable level of growth and employment creation, as a
basis for improving living conditions. In so far as tax reforms are concerned actions have been taken to
simplify rates structures, in reducing the number of exemptions and the consolidation (removal and
replacement) of a number of indirect taxes. This latest initiative has been undertaken to further improve
taxpayer compliance and tax administration efficiency.
Although under the reform initiatives over the years some critical economic targets have been achieved,
- 13 -



there have also been deterioration in some areas. Thus following several years of sluggish economic
growth aggregate real output declined in each year between 1996 and 1998 and the fiscal position showed
deficits over the same period.
The present strategy guiding GOJ's continuing efforts to create a more market oriented and competitive
economy is the National Industrial Policy prepared in 1996. Based on a three phased approach the
objectives are:
*      a low and stable inflation rate
*      a low fiscal deficit and a sustainable debt profile
*      moderate output growth increasing over time
*      an increase in the number and quality ofjobs
As was the case when the Tax Administration Reform Project (TAXARP) was proposed and approved by
the Bank for financing, Government's fiscal strategy as it relates to its programme for development is
expected to be facilitated by improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of the tax departments which
result in increased revenue collection. Hence the relevance of the project's objectives which are: (i) to raise
revenues without increasing tax rates; (ii) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the tax
administration by: (a) strengthening the organization and management of tax departments; (b) improving
tax collections; (c) improving control of tax evasion and (d) encouraging voluntary compliance
PROJECT DESIGN
The project design was developed following on a review of the various existing tax laws as well as the
organization of the several tax departments and the practices which govemed their operations and which to
some extent made the administration unreceptive to the needs and demands of its clientele. There is after
all agreement that inadequate tax administration is a more important problem than poor tax policy.
Deficiencies were found to lie in the areas of enforcement and collections where there was a need for
additional powers to support compliance and timely payment by taxpayers. The review also showed that
there was a considerable scope for harmonization of procedures with the introduction of an administration
structured on functions and which would simplify compliance, thus reducing cost both for the
administration as well as the taxpayer.
On the basis of the performance indicators developed for the project, its success would be evidenced inter
alia by the following events:
(a) The introduction and allocation of a unique taxpayer registration number for effective identification and
monitoring of taxpayers;
(b) Detection of unregistered taxpayers and consequent increase in the number of taxpayers
(c) A tax administration organized along functional lines rather than tax specific as previously existed, and
a more efficient and effective administration where procedures are harmonized and enforcement capability
strengthened;
(d) The introduction of modem management systems/practices, improved training capability, increased
remuneration for personnel, and reduction in administrative costs;
(e) The establishment of an integrated computer based accounting system to support business processes,
facilitate reduction in the processing time for critical activities and providing services, and increase in the
collection percentage of taxes due;
(f) A strengthened legal framework to support enforcement and provide for more streamlined procedures
e.g. appeals; and
(g) A more informed taxpayer public and consequential increase in voluntary compliance
- 14 -



So that at the core of the Project and its eventual design was the recognition that policy reform which is
primarily associated with structural or policy changes in law will not be sustainable unless supported by an
effective management system.
The Project design proved suitable as it laid the groundwork for success in so far as it provided for
activities to be undertaken to enhance the performance of:
a) essential functions of the administration viz: (i) taxpayer registration and identification; (ii) assessment;
(iii) collection/compliance; (iv) audit
b) support functions of the administration: (i) personnel management; (ii) taxpayer education information
and assistance; (iii) planning and control
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Ministry of Finance was named executing agency for the project and a Steering Committee reporting to
the Financial Secretary was created for its implementation. The Committee has over the life of the Project
been supported by a Project Co-ordination Unit. To facilitate project management key activities were
detailed and an implementation schedule prepared. Performance indicators to track not only the timeliness
of critical implementation activities but to measure the level of achievements in respect of each objective
were also defined.
In recognition of the complexity of the Project a three stage approach was proposed and adopted:
(A)   In the first stage a MASTER PLAN which provided a comprehensive blue print of the activities to
be undertaken to achieve the project objectives was developed. The Plan which was prepared under a
consultancy with the BARENTS GROUP KPMG PEAT MARWICK defined the new mission,
organization structure and high level functions of the six new departments. Management systems, human
resources, training and equipment needs of the administration were also assessed. The evaluation of the
Argentine Collection System which had been recommended for possible adoption to improve collection
capability was also carried out during this stage.
(B)   In the SECOND STAGE a detailed TRANSITION PLAN to give effect to the Master Plan was
prepared. It included definition of the new functions, recommended a revised structure, outlined
specifications for a performance linked incentive scheme and career paths in the administration.
(C)   STAGE THREE provided for continued Implementation activities. During this stage aspects of
the Master and Transition Plans with particular focus on organizational restructuring complemented by
improvements to Human Resource Management and strengthening of Management Systems were
implemented. The design and development of an Integrated Computerized Tax Administration System
(ICTAS) was also undertaken. It also set out the procedures for the evaluation of existing skills and design
of a management information system, provided estimates of costs for implementation (in the context of
available project financing) and recommended the strategy for the sequencing of organizational changes.
Implementation was executed on the basis of a series of rolling action plans which itemized the activities
under the several tasks to be undertaken, the time scales for delivery/completion and the responsibility for
these. The plans had their genesis in the high level MASTER AND TRANSITION PLANS which were
deliverables under the KPMG consultancies referred to and were the tools for guiding and monitoring the
work of the project. They not only enabled the identification of slippages and incompletions but served to
facilitate decisions for remedial action such as changes in direction on a timely basis where the environment
- 15 -



dictated this was necessary.
FACTORS IMPACTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Major risks to successful project implementation had been identified during the conception stage and while
the final design included strategies intended to reduce these, there were operational and other complications
which exacerbated the risk factors and so impacted the level of success of the implementation.
I .    Three key areas of influence were affected by the decision, based on the recommendation from the
First Stage Consultancy following on the evaluation, not to adopt the Argentine System but rather to
develop a computerized collection system more suited to our needs. The decision impacted both the
estimated cost and time for the modernization of the collection machinery as also the training requirements
to support the new system. Consequences included:
*      Draw down of loan funds not being in accordance with the schedule of estimate of disbursements
as originally determined.
*      The procurement of additional consultancy services at a cost over and above that which had been
provided for, and which made it necessary to reallocate financial resources between project components
to the detriment of some activities.
-      The extended time for development work and the resultant delay in the realization of the benefits
from the system.
2.    Reference has been made to the multidimensional strategy which was designed to deal with the
interrelated problems identified as affecting the administration. The decision to restructure the organization
along functional lines necessitated the enactment of legislation to establish the new departments and appoint
heads (Commissioners). This took much longer to complete than had been programmed for and created a
major bottleneck for the timely start of other related activities. Thus it was not until October 1999 that the
re-organized administration comprising six (6) new departments was implemented when under the original
programme of critical activities, the re-organization and satisfactory operation of the new management
systems should have been completed by mid 1997.
Reorganization of the tax departments has been a major exercise and is ongoing. The risk factors identified
in this connection before the project start and which included: (a) The capability of the administration to
absorb/commit to the change; (b) Availability of staff in adequate numbers with the requisite skills to man
the new structure did in fact contribute to targets under the project not being realized in the time which had
been scheduled.
It became clear from the outset that in the merging and restructuring of departments each with its own
entrenched culture and operating styles, and where management skills were in short supply, the requirement
to deal with the comprehensive change envisaged under the project with its focus on taxpayer service would
need a complete change of the prevailing ethos. This inability of some staff to effectively review new
systems because of preoccupation with the past is one of the issues with which the Director General will
have to continue to grapple.
Of no less significance was the de facto removal/transfer of power from some hands into others and the
potential for job loss consequent on the functional alignment which sought inter alia to reduce the
duplication of activities in areas such as registration, audit, investigation etc.
To provide support for the change and mitigate the risks to the success of the project the following actions
were taken:
- 16-



*   A Transition Working Group was established by the Steering Committee with a mandate to: (a)
develop a transition implementation plan for effecting specified changes in Tax Administration within
the context of the Master Plan and related Action Plans; (b) obtain Steering Committee approval of the
transition implementation plan and the allocation of tasks to the responsible agencies; (c) support the
Director General in the implementation of the Plan. To this end the Group: (i) prepared appropriate
documentation including progress reports for the Steering Committee and to facilitate monitoring; (ii)
collaborated with other working and project groups; (iii) kept Project Implementation group up-to-date
on TRANSITION activities and progress made; and (iv)    sought to ensure that project activities
and strategies were integrated with other initiatives for effecting changes in tax administration.
*   Implementation Teams comprising staff members at a sufficiently high level in the Agencies and with
the authority to help guide all aspects of the reform were formed. Teams were inter alia:(a) Headed by
a Team Leader; (b) Appointed by and responsible to the Commissioner or Head of Department; (c)
Expected to interact with staff in the respective Units and actively involve them in the various
implementation activities; (d) To mobilize staff to participate in training activities; (e) Charged with
maintaining a facilitating role to assist in the management of change; (f) To develop and document
change strategy programmes with the respective Agency; (g) To attend monthly meetings to get and
discuss updates on the project; (h) Responsible for maintaining up-to-date status reports on project
activities in their particular agency; (i) Ensure that all activities necessary for successful
implementation are pursued.
*   A questionnaire, (EDUCATION, SKILL AND CAREER QUESTIONNAIRE) was developed and
administered to all staff by the several Personnel Units with the support of the Implementation Teams.
The objectives of the questionnaire were to: (a) Update and verify the personnel information database;
(b) Identify present areas and levels of skills; (c) Identify the choice of career paths and future
aspirations of staff. The exercise and its results were seen as providing: (i) A basis for achieving equity
in staff movement (selections, placements and transfers); (ii) An opportunity for the involvement of
staff in thinking about TAXARP and relating it to themselves in a practical way.
*   One important aspect of the re-engineering of the tax administration to make it more efficient and
effective in the provision of services was the development of a more realistic system of classification of
posts thereby influencing a more equitable approach to compensation. In this regard the Consultants
proposed the classification of all jobs in a single Tax Administration (TA) Series with specific jobs
being distinguished by the applicable job description. The recommendation sought to correct the
problem of the wide disparity in application of the existing system of salary grades and groups within
the Administration particularly for management jobs.
It was also pointed out by the Consultants that as a prerequisite to development/establishment of
the new TA series, job descriptions for all the jobs in the administration would need to be prepared bearing
in mind that the content of jobs in the restructured administration would in many cases be different and
require higher skills and qualifications than before. From this would come an accurate record of the jobs
within the Administration and would ensure objectivity in the evaluation process.
Because of the amount of work which had to be done and also in an effort at enabling up-front
involvement in the process, a Job Description Subproject group was created to develop an overall strategy
for dealing with job descriptions. This group comprising representatives from the administration itself and
those other govemment agencies with responsibility for personnel matters, with consultancy support was
given the responsibility to prepare, classify and grade jobs. The benefit from the approach has been the
- 17 -



development of institutional skills /capabilities in this area of activity and possible reduction in complaints
regarding salary relativity in the new series.
* The importance of training for staff in the administration to upgrade staff capability was identified in
the MASTER PLAN prepared as part of the Stage 1 consultancy. It was recognized that for training
to be effective there would have to be a change in the approach to delivery of training bearing in mind
that there were going to be new courses, revision of some existing courses and the levels of support
which would be required. Accordingly, the elements of the training strategy pursued under the project
were to: (a) develop trainers from within the various Departments/Agencies and who would be actively
involved in and central to the programme; (b) strengthen the capacity of the departments/agencies to
themselves administer training; (c) identify and assess priority training needs to support the transition;
(d) institutionalize the training and staff development subprojects activities in the new Tax
Administration Services Departnent (TASD); (e) address the need to revamp some existing
programmes and to further upgrade skills of the beneficiaries of previous programmes; (f) recruit
consultants and technical specialists to assist with the development and conduct of special programmes;
(g) explore a range of training delivery systems to ensure available education and training in all
locations; and (h) documentation of systems procedures and programmes so as to foster and facilitate
uniformity in multi-site application;
While there were constraints which affected the timely realization of all the objectives which were to be
achieved under the component - Strengthen Organization and management of tax Administration, because
of the strategies developed and put into effect there have been measurable successes by way of: (i)
Extensive training of and development of employees; (ii) The establishment of defined procedures and
norms, operating guidelines to facilitate organizational development and staff efficiency; (iii) Significantly
improved taxpayer service and facilities which has elicited public recognition; (iv) Improved working
conditions for staff particularly at the new service centres and other refurbished sites; (v) Evidence of
significant individual growth and improved performance among some staff; and (vi) Understanding if not
yet total acceptance that the administration cannot become locked in a static position and unable to react to
the changes which are going on all around, it must itself be changed.
3.    Another major area of focus under the project was the tax collection system. While there had
previously been some level of computerization to support the efforts of the administration, the need to
collect even more of the taxes payable reinforced the need for improvement to the tax collection
efficiency.The modemization of the machinery was seen to involve the introduction of new collection
system, the creation of new data bases and the installation of appropriate computer and telecommunication
hardware. Accordingly Terms of Reference were developed for a consultancy, the objective of which was
the development and implementation of a set of fully functioning computer based systems for tax
administration covering several tax types.
The suite of systems required to support the tax administration processes and which were to be
implemented included inter alia: (a) Taxpayer Registration Number (TRN); (b) Tax Type Support; (c)
Taxpayer Accounting; (d) Payment and Retums Processing; (e) Compliance and Delinquency Control; (f)
Assessment; (g) Case Management; (h) Audit Selection; (i) Remote Site support; () Systems Management
Features; (k) Management Reports.
Work in regard to the Integrated Computerised Tax Administration System (ICTAS) development was
divided into two parts. Under Part 1 the major deliverables by the Consultants were, Statement of
Understandings, Requirements Specification, and Extended Systems Design Statement, as well as detailed
Part 2 developmental plan. Under Part 2 the Consultants delivered a custom built tax application,
- 18 -



consisting of thirteen (1 3) integrated modules, 150 sub- modules and about 250 database tables covering all
functional areas of tax administration. The completed system has been designed to integrate seamlessly
with certain existing applications, such as TRN and Stamp Duty and Transfer Tax systems.
Software development work by the consultants having been completed, and the quality assurance done by
Fiscal Services, the testing by Users of the several modules comprising the system is ongoing. A number of
discrepancies and requests for enhancements have been identified and are being addressed.
Implementation of the ICTAS has started with operation at three (3) pilot Collectorates, one Decentralized
Data Capture Facility (DDCF) and the Central Facility to determine the application's readiness for full
deployment in the various departments. For this purpose evaluation criteria have been developed against
which the performance of the system is being measured. Also, as a precursor for ICTAS full
implementation the integrated collection system (iNCRS) has been brought on-line at 20 of 28
collectorates. This represents about 98% of total revenue collection. The work on the remaining
collectorates is ongoing and will shortly be completed.
A major component of the Part 2 plan has been the procurement and deployment of a technical
infrastructure to support ICTAS and a suite of existing systems that integrates with it. The technical
infrastructure consisting of database servers, file servers. network equipment, personal computers,
software, services and technical training was successfully deployed at 42 sites island-wide by the
Contractor, within budget and on-time. An important aspect of this work is the provision of technical
training for well over 150 employees at Fiscal Services Limited and the tax departments.
4.    Project management was provided by a Steering Committee which reported to the Financial
Secretary. A Project Coordination Unit responsible for procurement, accounting and administrative
services related to planning, organizing, coordinating, implementing and monitoring of the project
supported the Committee. The Terms of Reference for the Steering Committee provided inter alia that it
would: (a) Supervise the operations of the PCU; (b) Continually review the tax administration system to
identify areas for policy and legislative decision within the context and scope of the project; (c) Carry out
periodic evaluation of the project and in collaboration with the Bank effect appropriate adjustments or
modifications to the Project Document; (d) Ensure the integration of the project with the other
projects/initiatives which were intended to impact the tax administration system. (e) Approve Terms of
References for and approve any consulting firm bidding or personnel appointed to support project
implementation.
The concept of a Steering Committee (somewhat akin to a Board of Directors of a company) to provide
management for the project is novel and has the potential for being very effective where there are certain
preexisting conditions. In so far as the project was concemed the full benefit of which a Steering
Committee Management structure is capable was not realized. This was due in part to the inability of the
members of the Committee to separate responsibility as a Committee member from their individual
responsibilities as Commissioners whose departments were being re-organized under the project. Thus the
decision-making ability of the Committee was often colored where such decisions were seen to be in
conflict because they would support changes for which there had not yet been acceptance by the rank and
file and even the very Commissioner.
There was also the fact that the complex nature of the project called for more concentrated management
focus and time than the Steering Committee was able to bring to bear during the initially monthly and later
bimonthly meetings. Commissioners were naturally preoccupied with the running of their departments and
meeting tax collection targets. Efforts were made to counter this constraint through seminars and
- 19 -



workshops to hone corporate management skills and retreats where important matters could be examined
and decided on without external interruption.
Perhaps for the future the composition of the Steering Committee should not rely so heavily on actual
participants in the reform process, but should be leavened with persons detached from the process, but with
knowledge to contribute to the process (although it may well be that in some circumstances this level of
reliance may be just what is needed to ensure the success of the project). Another altemative could be the
use of a full time 'Implementation Group' comprised of members with specialized skills and a mandate
from the Steering Committee whose function would be to carny out decisions of the Committee and brief
them on issues which may arise and which needs to be considered. In other words the composition of the
Steering Committee should take into account the kind of project and its complexity.
As designed the project financed consulting services, training and equipment. In accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement procurement was based on Bank Guidelines. While there was no
difficulty with following the procedures as laid down the requirements of the Bank form of contract for
Consultants under which payments are not performance related but time based was to the disadvantage of
the Borrower in ensuring that products and services are fully delivered within budget and without, likely
recourse to arbitration.
This shortcoming in the contract specifics was particularly evident in the case of the contract for the
development of the software for the new collection system where there was no defined procedure to deal
with delays which were caused by discontinuance on the part of the Contractors - staff not being recruited
on time, and the inadequacy of some of the staff recruited.
BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
Articles III and IV of the Loan Agreement between GOJ and the IBRD sets out in clear terms the
obligations of the Borrower as these relate to the execution of the Project. Consequent on the declared
commitment to the objectives of the project there have in fact been many achievements.
As provided for: (i) Procurements under the Loan were properly conducted; (ii) The Steering Committee
was established and maintained: (iii) The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was established and maintained;
(iv) The Leasing Programme to provide motor cars to staff engaged in field work was introduced; (v)
Adequate records and accounts to track the resources of and expenditures under the project have been
maintained (with revision of and amendments to the financing plan being made as required over the life of
the Project); (vi) The Implementation Plans/Timetables against which work under the project would be
tracked were prepared; (vii) Supporting Legislation was enacted by Parliament.
The Borrower's inability to meet targets for completion of specific activities in the time frame originally
specified was seen primarily in regard to the enactment of legislation required for strengthening the
enforcement powers of the administration and provision for the re-organization of the departments to
support the reform programme. This delay had a ripple effect and impacted the schedule for the start and
completion of related activities in the plan of action.
The rationale to include certain legislative changes as requirements for the project is understood but where
the content of such legislation is likely to be controversial, political considerations are often brought to bear
and will often upset the timetables which had been previously agreed.
Implementation of the ICTAS has been affected by a variety of problems. There has been a time constraint
occasioned by the decision to undertake custom development of the system with all the attendant
- 20 -



ramifications and which had not been factored into the time frame for completion of the project when this
was being determined. Reference has already been made to the consultancy in this regard and in respect of
which there were some difficulties.
A consequence has been even more pressure on staff as they seek to carry out ongoing functions at the
same as they are heavily involved in making the changes to accommodate the new procedures and systems.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
The project evolved from fact-finding missions of the Bank with full input from the Borrowers (GOJ) who
had as early as during the 1980s been pursuing a programme of tax reform. Where before the focus had
been on good tax policy the problem of an inadequate tax administration despite some improvements, in the
context of the macro economic environment now begged for specific attention. It was from this genesis that
the TAXARP grew and was outlined in the May 1994 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Project preparation activities including the preparation of the Master Plan was supported by a Japanese
Grant. For the rest joint financing of the estimated US$42m cost would be by way of a US$13.2m loan
from the World Bank and US$28.8m by GOJ.
Over the life of the project the Bank has through Supervision Missions closely monitored the progress of
the activities under the project components. The Bank has also provided advice when requested and
facilitated the procurement processes so enabling as far as possible the timely award of contracts and the
payments thereunder. This collaboration was particularly important when the need to reduce the scope of
some activities arose consequent on the unplanned but necessary widening of other areas of activity. This
support helped to ensure that all loan funds were expended over the life of the project.
SUSTAINABILITY
One major recommendation to support the reform proposals and provide sustainability of the changes made
under TAXARP was the establishment of the Director General's Secretariat. The need to secure a higher
level of compliance with the tax laws to assure adequate and stable financial resources which is a primary
consideration in tax reform strategies, usually dictates the shape and form of such reform as in this case
reorganization along functional lines.
Of equal importance as shown by reforms undertaken elsewhere is the support services for the tax
administration. It was with this intent that in 1981 the Revenue Board a statutory body was established
with the responsibility for directing, coordinating, inspecting and monitoring the activities of the Tax
Commissioners in the performance of their respective functions under or by virtue of the laws relating to
revenue.
As part of the reform it was recommended that the carrying out of the common support functions (legal
services, taxpayer information and assistance, general services e.g. property management and procurement)
should be carried out by a services department in the Administration. The functions of coordinating and
monitoring including the evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of the departments, the establishment
of working systems and procedures, development and issuance of guides and standards would be carried
out by a Director General Tax Administration reporting to the Financial Secretary and supported by a
Secretariat. The decision to establish the office of the Director General flowed from the experience of
working with a Revenue Board the activities of which, although intended to serve the Minister of Finance,
- 21 -



was placed outside of the Ministry, with no direct supervision by the Minister or a designated authority on
his behalf.
The Director General's office, providing as it will a bridge between the operation of the Departments as
revenue collectors and the Ministry with its overall economic responsibility, is expected to facilitate
consistency and integration in areas such as policy development, strategic goals and any organizational and
systems changes which will need to be made to sustain the reform.
It is important that in the light of the interdependency between the new departments that responsibility for
given functions are clearly defined and where procedures span departments guidelines are specific as to
who does what and when. The Director General's office will through its directives ensure that there is a
common interpretation/understanding of these matters and that there is the desired attention to corporate
goals. Above all the ongoing evaluation of activities and programmes in the several departmnents will it is
expected ensure that the need for action, remedial or otherwise to maintain the efficiency and effectiveness
of operations and the achievement of objectives, will be identified on a timely basis. That there will be no
attempt to use the now defunct organizations as the operational model or standard.
The development of the ICTAS has been a major activity under TAXARP. The SAR spoke to the gaps in
revenue collection in the past and indicated that changes were required not only in the existing collection
system, but that in restructuring the systems being developed should be in accordance with the best
practices for use of computer technology so as to support efficiency and sustainability.
Fiscal Services Limited (FSL) is the Government of Jamaica's primary information service provider and is
the major link in the information flow between the departments comprising the tax administration. This
agency has been actively involved in ICTAS development from the outset with responsibility for
coordinating and monitoring system development. As part of the strategy to ensure sustainability the
contract with the developers provided for use of counterpart staff from the agency to facilitate the skills
transfer which would ensure the ability to properly maintain the systems after completion. In this
connection too under the contract awarded for the Technical Infrastructure, a Training Environment was
established and provision made for Training of Trainers, Technical staff and managers in regard to
products being supplied. In this connection it is very important that the 'service' culture is also adopted by
this organization in its role as a provider to the Tax Administration and that this is not subverted to its
other activities
One of the lessons drawn from Bank experience and mentioned in the SAR as applicable to this project was
the need for improved training capability. Examination of the Training Plan as had been in use revealed
inadequacies both in terms of content and the strategy to deliver training in the context of the likely
demands of the reform.
With this in mind and as recommended a revised programme of extensive training was developed,
implemented and continues so as to upgrade existing skills, develop new skills, improve current
performance and generally improve the overall responsiveness, effectiveness and efficiency of the
administration.
The main elements of the revised strategy include:
*  The issue of professional policy guidelines to sustain the standard of training programmes and which
will provide for the production of an annual training plan, specific programme outlines, training
manuals and the use of trainers
*   Trainers assigned to programmes must be fully qualified trainers to ensure efficiency and
- 22 -



standardization.
* In the delivery of training, the Tax Administration Services Department (TASD) has the responsibility
for coordinating and integrating training needs analyses into the annual plan, setting standards for
delivery and evaluation of training across the various departments.
*   Departments are responsible for their respective staff training in areas specific to their functions with a
minimum number of days of formal training each year required for each staff member.
With regard to whether or not the achievements which have been generated can be maintained GOJ is
committed, given the objective of achieving a high and stable level of economic growth, to continue to
pursue reforms in the areas of trade policy, taxation as well as in the financial and public sector (GOJ's
Medium Term Policy Framework 1999/2000 - 2001/2002 refers)
The requirements for sustainability in regard to the project have been identified and as indicated above
agencies which will provide support for these are aware of their responsibilities and have been
implementing the changes required in their operational habits to ensure that they can effectively carry out
the roles assigned to them.
Much reliance will be on the Director General as he seeks to plan, direct and monitor to ensure effective
management in the departments, that training is provided for staff to maintain their edge, that performance
measurement is institutionalized and that the service oriented focus which has been introduced is
maintained in the administration.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indcatrlMtrX                     Prjce  nls  S                         ActuatlLatst Estimate
I. Broaden the Tax Base                10% in the first year and 5% for every  Number of registered taxpayers increased to
subsequent year of project implementation.  1,059,450 taxpayers, from 662,495 in
Increase in the number of Registered   Total increase: 33%                    1995-96. Total increase: 60%.
Taxpayers
II. Improve Efficiency and Effectiveness of
Tax Admn.
A. Strengthen Organization and Management
of Tax Administration.
(a) Reduction in the administrative cost per  5%reduction at the end of 3rd year and 5%   Administrative expenses increased from
J$ of tax collected,                  for every subsequent year of implementation. 1.1% to 1.48% of revenue collected.
(b)Reduction in the processing time for  20% decrease after the third year of                   95-96         200-01
critical activities and services of tax  implementation                       Issue of Driver's
administration                                                                Ucense:         1 hour   5 to 7 minutes
Tax Clearance
Certificate:    4 weeks 20 to 30 mts
TRN allotment: 7 weeks
Same day at online sites and 3 weeks at
off-line sites.
Submission of retums & payment: 2 hours
10-30 mts
Perceptions of staff and management                                           Survey of management and staff being
regarding increased organizational                                            conducted. Informal feedback suggests that
effectiveness.                                                                managers and staff feel that the
effectiveness and efficiency of the tax
administration has increased significantly.
B. Improve the Control of Tax Evasion
Increase in revenue collected per audit.  10% increase beginning with the third year.  GCT:  Increase of 60% in real
Total Increase: 46.4%                                   terms.
Income Tax:  Increase of 97% in real
terms.
Increase in amount of penalties levied.  Same as above.                       Desegregated data for penalties not available
in legacy systems. Will now be available
following implementation of ICTAS.
C. Improve Tax Collecton:
% of current taxes collected.          80% of current taxes collected from the third Desegregated data for current taxes not
year, increasing to 90% at the end of the  available in legacy systems. Will now be
Project.                              available following implementation of ICTAS.
Desegregated data for penalties not available
Tax Arrears:                           10% reduction in the third year and every    in legacy systems. Will now be available
subsequent year of project implementation,  following implementation of ICTAS.
Ill. Facilitate Voluntary Compliance
Improved perception amongst taxpayers of   .                                  Taxpayer satisfaction surveys showed
the faimess, equity and accountability of tax                                 improving taxpayer perception about the tax
administration.                                                               administration.
Tax Collected through self-assessment.  90%                                   Desegregated data for penaities not available
in legacy systems. Will now be available
following implementation of ICTAS.
Output Indicators:
24 -



IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Broaden the Tax Base               Increasing the number of registered
taxpayers:
Amend the Revenue Administration Act   RAA amended April 1, 1996.
(RAA) to require all persons having
transactions with the Revenue administration
to obtain a Taxpayer Registration Number
(TRN).                                Computerized system for TRN developed
Develop and implement a computerzed   and implemented in November 1996.
system to allot TRNs.
Organizational Unit for allotment of TRNs
Establish an organizational unit responsible  established in the Revenue Board in July
for allotment of the TRN and its upkeep.  1996. This has now been transferred to the
Tax Administration Services Department
(TASD).
Train staff in alotmentotheTRNBetween 1997 and December 2000, 600
Train staff in allotment of the TRN.   staff were trained in 30 separate training
programs. Under ICTAS, 57 IRD staff
received training related to taxpayer
registration in three training programs.
Allot TRNs to all eligible taxpayers.  TRNs allotted to 1, 059, 459 taxpayers.
Conduct Extemal Surveys to detect     Two surveys done in 1998 and two more
unregistered taxpayers.               carred out in 2000.
Gather data from other institutions to detect  Ongoing. Also, amendments made to the
additional unregistered taxpayers.     RAA now allow formal exchange of
informaton between tax departments.
Strengthening Tax Policy               Model for GCT analysis implemented.
Develop statistical models for tax policy
analysis.
Train staff in tax policy analysis and use of  Two staff members of the Tax Policy Unit
computerized analytical tools.        trained at the Harvard Intemational Tax
Program.
Studies to facilitate broadening of the tax  Tax policy studies conducted by the Ministry
base to reduce exemptions, deductions and  of Finance using own resources.
concessions.
11. Improve Effideney and Effectiveness of
Tax Administration
A. Strengthen Organization and         Prepare Master Plan defining the new   Master Plan prepared in February 1995,
Ma.Srnagthent OraxAmnizatraion admission, organizational structure, and high   using PHRD funds.
Management of Tax Administration      level functions of the new tax administration.
Prepare a detailed Transition Plan to give    Tasto   lnpeae  nSpebr96
effect to the Master Pan nditin   ne   Transibon Plan prepared in September 1996.
administrative functions, procedures, career
paths, salary scales and incentive schemes,
management tools and systems, overall
training requirements etc..
Organizational Restructuring:          RAA amended in December, 1998 to give
Amend the RAA to give effect to the new  effect to the new organizational structure.
organizational structure.              Tax administration departments reorganized.
Reorganize tax departments on functional   All new departments are functioning. All
lines.                                reassigned staff are working in their new
positions.
All staff screened and mapped to new
Evaluate existing staff and map them to new  positions. Senior managers selected
positions.                             competitively.
- 25 -



Improving Human Resource Management:
New job descriptions prepared for all
Redefine functions at all levels and prepare  positions in the new organizational structure.
job descriptions for staff in the new
organizational structures.             Recruitment standards for all positions
established.
Establish recruitment standards.
Career paths defined for different levels and
incorporated in the revised Tax
Develop career paths for staff.       Administration Series in the Establishment
Order of the Govemment of Jamaica.
New salary scale for the tax administration
Revise salary scale.                  designed and approved.
To manage the change, Implementation
Effectively manage the change.        Teams, consisting of members of staff, were
formed in each department to explain the
objective and benefits of the reform program,
the rationale for moving to a functional
organizabon and to address staff concerns
about their future employment and job
content etc. . The Implementation Teams
worked closely with the Steering Committee
and provided a two feedback to the
management and the staff in order to
facilitate the change process.
More than 2,400 staff received training in
137 training programs. Training courses
focussed on the new roles that staff would
need to perform in the new structure and the
skills they would need for the purpose.
Training courses included Team Building,
Strategic Planning, Supervisory
Management, Personnel Management,
Intemal Audit, Taxpayer Service, Cashiering,
Compliance, Tax Audit, Computer systems
and specific Computerized Applications of
ICTAS. Participants in these courses
included senior managers, middle managers
and front line staff. In most training
programs organized under the project, a
Strengthening Management Systems:      Change Management component was
Strengthen strategic planning, goal setting,  included to sensitize the staff and build
monitoring and performance evaluabon   ownership for the reform process.
policies.
A Planning Unit has been established in each
Department. A Corporate and Project
Management Specialist has been appointed
in the DG's Executive Office to coordinate,
monitor and evaluate the preparation and
Improve Management information systems.  execution of strategic and corporate plans of
the tax administration. A new performance
evaluation system for staff has been
developed and is being introduced from
January 1, 2001.
The Integrated Computerized Tax
Administration System will provide access to
management to monitor revenue collections,
case management etc.. The tax departments
Establish Internal Audit function and transfer are using the Human Resource Management
responsibility for investigating allegations of  Information System (HRMIS) and from April
corruption against tax officials to the Revenue 1, 2001 will use the Financial Management
Protection Division.                   Information System (FMIS) for budget
execution and accounting.
- 26 -



Civil Works:
An Intemal Audit unit has been set up in the
Construct new Revenue Centers.         Revenue Protection Department and the
responsibility for investigation of allegations
against tax officials has been transferred to
it.
New integrated Revenue Centers have been
constructed and commissioned at Montego
Bay and Spanish Town. These centers
provide one stop service to taxpayers for
taxpayer registration, submission of tax
retums, payment of taxes, tax clearance
certificates, registration of vehicles and issue
of driveres licenses. The Montego Bay center
also provides services relating submission of
customs declarations and payment of
customs duties. The building for a Revenue
Center at May Pen is under construction and
Refurbish existing tax offices.        is expected to be commissioned in the near
future. In view of demographic trends and
workload, GOJ has decided not to construct
new buildings at Morants Bay and Central
Region.
A new collectorate at Cross Roads, Kingston
has been established to improve taxpayer
service in the Kingston corporate area.
Tax offices at Port Antonio, Linstead, Old
Harbour, St. Anne's Bay and Jackson Town
have been refurbished.
For the purpose of implementing the ICTAS,
major infrastructure improvements, including
structured cabling for data flows, Local Area
Networks, phone lines, UPSs and upgrading
of electrical systems, have been made in 26
collectorates, head offices of the DG, and the
five departments, two Decentralized Data
Capture Facilities (DDCF) and two Central
Facilities (CF). New workstations have been
provided to staff at various locations.
B. Improving Control of Tax Evasion    Merge investigation and audit functions under Audit and investigation functions for all taxes
different taxes in order to enable pooling of  merged into the TAAD.
expertise and carrying out of integrated audits
and investigations for different taxes.
Improve enforcement powers of tax      Enforcement powers of tax administration
administration.-                       enhanced amendments to the RAA in March
1999.
Implementation of systems for detection
noncompliancet                         System for detection of non filing, stop filing
noncompliance.            and nonpayment of taxes implemented as
part of ICTAS.
Establishment of new methodologies for audit
and investigation.                     Team and integrated audits introduced in the
TAAD.
Implementation of computerized audit
selection system.                      Cornputerized audit selection system and a
Case Management System developed and
Establishment of intelligence unit to gather  implemented.
informiation about tax evasion.        Tax Fraud Investigations Unit established in
the TMD.
Train auditors and investigators.
Extensive training provided to auditors and
Provision of leased vehicles to auditors and  investigators.
- 27 -



compliance officers to increase their mobility 35 cars purchased and leased to auditors
for field audits and recovery of arrears.  and compliance officers for field work.
Strengthen Legal Unit to improve
representation before appellate authorities.  Legal Unit of the TASD strengthened by
recruitment of additional staff, training in legal
drafting, on the job training etc.. Qualified
lawyers now represent the tax administration
in cases before the Resident Magistrates.
Upgrade the Legal Library.
Legal library updated.
Provide a legal database.
Databases of Jamaican and UK tax laws
purchased and made available to legal and
other officials.
Strengthen the Land Valuation Department
The Land Valuation Department has been
incorporated into a new National Land
Agency. It has been converted into an
Executive Agency and is receiving extensive
assistance through the Jamaica Public
Sector Modemization Project (PSMP).
Therefore, no action was taken in this regard
under this project.
C. Modemizing Collection Systems       Evaluate the desirability of adapting the  Evaluation carried out under the PHRD
Argentine tax administration computer  Grant. Argentine system not found to be
system to Jamaica.                     suitable for Jamaica for vanous reasons.
(Refer KPMG/Barents Group Report).
Develop and implement an integrated tax    ICTAS developed and implemented.
collection system through out the country.   Implementaton:
Implement a plan for quantffication,  Teams created to update taxpayer ledger
evaluation and substantial clearng of tax  cards and transfer the information to a
arrears.                               computerized database.
Train staff in tax collection.         Between January 1998 and December 2000,
313 staff were trained in compliance areas
(including training of trainers in the use of
ICTAS), comprising 19 activities (programs).
Ill. Facilitate Voluntary Compliance   Reduce compliance costs.               Various steps taken to reduce compliance
costs:
* One-stop Revenue Centers at Montego Bay
and Spanish Town provide expedited Tax
Clearance Certificates as they can check
taxpayer liabilities under different taxes at the
same site. The same facility will now be
available to all sites once ICTAS is
implemented.
* TRN is issued through automated system
and is available to taxpayers within a few
hours in the offices that have come online. In
other cases this is issued ovemight. In either
case this is a major improvement over the
pre-project system.
Taxpayers are now able to deposit their
retums and payments under different taxes at
the same office. Also payment for different
taxes can be aggregated into the same
check.
* With introduction of the NCRS,
collectorates that were manual earlier have
experienced a significant reduction in
taxpayer waiting tme.
-28 -



* Taxpayer waiting areas at the new Revenue
Centers have been designed with a view to
minimize inconvenience.
* In Montego Bay and Spanish Town,
taxpayer information unit have been establish
to assist in ensuring that tax documents are
in order and to provide information about
different to the taxpayers. This ensures that
the taxpayer do not have tum back after
waiting in the line for a long time.
* Extensive training has been provided to
front line staff in taxpayer assistance and to
ensure high quality service.
A dress code for staff has been established
to increase professionalism and improve the
environment in tax offices.
Simplify procedures for submission of  The design of the ICTAS has implied
returns, payments, assessment, refunds and considerable process re-engineering and
tax clearance.                        simplification. The availability of consolidated
information relevant to taxpayers has made
queries easier.
The new functional organizational structure
has reduced duplication of functions between
departments and reduced the number of
steps that taxpayers need to take in order to
comply with their legal obligations.
Revise and simplify forms.
Revieansimlifyform.  Forms for various taxes have been simplified,
both for the purpose of ICTAS and to reduce
compliance costs. Between 1997 and
December 1998, 23 staff were trained in
taxpayer forms analysis and design.
Establish Taxpayer Assistance Units.
Taxpayer Assistance Units have been
established in all departments and offices.
Educate taxpayers.                     Extensive taxpayer education efforts were
made for the successful implementation of
the TRN. Regular taxpayer education
programs in other areas have been carried
out by GOJ using its own resources. Forms
and information on tax matters is also
provided through the internet.
A telephone has been established to answer
Establish a Grievance Unit to address  taxpayer queries.
taxpayer complaints.                   Grievance Units have not been established.
However, Commissioners receive complaints
Strengthen the Appellate machinery.   from taxpayers and take required actions.
A full-fledged Taxpayer Appeals Department
under a Commissioner has been created to
improve faimess and to expedite resolution of
disputes. A consultant from Revenue
Canada is currently working with the
Department to assist in the institutionalization
Conduct taxpayer surveys.              of the new appellate arrangements.
Two taxpayer satisfaction surveys were
conducted and show improving taxpayer
perceptions about the tax administration.
End of project
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Componentt            US$ mnillion    US$ ~million
Broaden the Tax Base                                  1.10           1.85          167.27
Strengthen the Organization & Management of Tax      24.50          13.32           54.37
Departments
Improve Control of Tax Evasion                        3.81           0.47           12.34
Improve Tax Collection                                6.50           13.36         205.54
Facilitate Voluntary Compliance                       1.44           0.15           10.42
Project Coordination Unit                             1.02           3.03          297.06
Total Baseline Cost                                  38.37          32.18
Physical Contingencies                               1.91
Price Contingencies                                  1.69
Total Project Costs             41.97           32.18
Total Financing Required              41.97          32.18
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
: ; m:    ;;  ;    :i V::    :Procurement Method        :::  :
Expenditure Category      ICB        Procurement  Met             N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other;     _______       _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         23.73        23.73
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      8.66         0.00          0.35          0.00         9.01
(7.34)       (0.00)        (0.34)        (0.00)       (7.68)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          8.60          0.00         8.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (4.95)        (0.00)      (4.95)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.66          0.00         0.66
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.57)        (0.00)       (0.57)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      8.66          0.00         9.61          23.73        42.00
(7.34)       (0.00)        (5.86)        (0.00)      (13.20)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure;;;:(:;:;;:; Categor:y: 0  Procurement tMethod
1 t xSponditure!CategoqB   NBCB                     Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
- 30 -



(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Details of actual project cost by procurement arrangements were not available from the Ministry of
Finance.
11Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1              1                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Broaden the Tax Base       2.62      0.84                  0.25       1.60                9.5   190.5
Strengthen the             2.30      22.20                 1.18       12.14               51.3   54.7
Organization &
Management of Tax
Departments
Improve Control of Tax     2.74       1.07                 1.46       0.01                53.3    0.9
Evasion
Improve Tax Collection     5.30       1.27                 9.69       2.67               182.8  210.2
Facilitate Voluntary      0.45       0.99                  0.13       0.02                28.9    2.0
Compliance
Project Coordination Unit    1.02    0.06                  0.49       2.55                48.0  4250.0
- 31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
MonthiYear    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
May/93                      5   Task Manager (TM), Tax
Admn. Specialist (TAS), 2
Project Managers (PM), Quality
Control Specialist
August/93                   8   TM, 3 TAS, Fiscal Economist, 3
Tax Policy Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
November/93                 6   TM, 2 TAS, 3 Consultants
Supervision
January/95                   I  TM                                  S             S
March/95                     2   TM, Budget Officer                 S             S
December/95                  3   TM, TAS, Budget Officer            S             S
November/96                  I   TM                                 S             S
March/97                     3   TM, Operations Analyst,            S             S
Training Specialist
August/97                    2   TM, Resident Mission Staff         S             S
March/98                     3   TM, Operations Analyst,            S             S
Training Specialist
March/99                     3   TM, Operations Analyst,            S             S
Training Specialist
April/00                     2   TM, Operations Analyst             S             S
June/00                      2   TM, Operations Analyst             S             S
December/00                  3   TM, Operations Analyst,            S             S
Training Specialist
ICR
December/00                 3    TM, Operations Analyst,
Training Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation               46.3                        95.2
AppraisalNegotiation                     40.3                        70.3
Supervision                              79.7                        68.6
ICR                                       7.0                        20.0
Total                                   173.3                       254.1
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3Sector Policies                          O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
M Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
23Financial                               O H  OSUOM   O N  * NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3Gender                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Public sector management                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  O SU O M  O N       NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
X Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU   O HU
F Overall                                             OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
 Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  u  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance              O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                   O HS 0 S  O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS * S 0 U O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports (PSRs);
2. Project Progress Reports from the PCU;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report; and
5. Staff Appraisal Report for Jamaica Tax Administration Reform Project dated May 24, 1994 (Report
No. 12598-JM)
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






-~~~ ~~ ;HE                                              I
BA-AMAS                                                               AICAhIIna  A iv
e'~- ,      isor   Feet        tMeter               JAM
MEpe cuex     eCU3A             DOM1N S                  98 t   800               MaIn Arterial FRoads        0   Solected Towns
CA RIH8EA /       HA    <                29r4           x 900      -     Main Secondary Roads         Q   Pariah Capitals
SFA
tSELZE    JAMAICA                               1477    '  460            J    Main Ports                       National Capital
- ountnf tlOf           "I         ISO                International Airports    ..... Parish Boundaries
Ihh0                                                          0                  Region Boundaries                County Boundaries
C A RIBB E A N
CORNWALL                                    0 **-I
rs  o                                           S E A  p   4                   S   E   A
0       O 10     20      eG#AEScM ,0 Td-P  S  MOM                                                                           ,1 4
L U C E A     S A Y                                                      M I D D L E S E X           - y    0A040  0*  k
tDI7 78*0et  ,    t         ttesr                     '     1PO
BD                        I                           , |                          I        ,,         ,    ,   I          '  .      _ MA



