Document of
The World Bank
FW4 )fMCIAL USE ONLY
Rq,t No. P-6097-JO
REPORT AND REAOMSMEATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOSTUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EKXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ENEY  SECTOR ADJUSTM    LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT
EQUIVALENT TO US$80  EILLION
TO
THE BASHENITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEPTEMBER 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6097 JO
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



THE ASUT KiNgDOM OF JDAN
BREtGY-SM  AESR M          U
CUE NCYEO-MU MVE
(As of September 13, 1993)
Currency Unit - Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$ 1.00 - JD 0.674
JD 1.00 - USS 1.48
FICAL 2EAR
Government of The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEAURES
kW - Kilowatt
MN - Megawatt
kWh - Kilowatt hour
GSM - Gigawatt hour
1.0 MI  1,000 kW
1.0 GWh a 1,000,000 kWh
PRINCIPAL ABDREVIATIONS AND ACSRTMO USED
ASAL            Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BOP             Balance of Payments
CBJ             Central Bank of Jordan
C               Consultative Group
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
CIP             Core Investment Program
DOS             Department of Environment
DSCR            Debt Service Coverage Ratio
ESAL            Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
ESAP            Energy Sector Adjustment Program
GDP             qroas Dcoestic Product
OST             General Sales Tax
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDEmO           Irbid District Electricity Company
XM              International Monetary Fund
IOC             International Oil Company
ITPAL           I,dustry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
JEA             Jordan Electricity Authority
JECOO           Jordan Electric Power Company
Jic             Jordan Investment Company
JPRC            Jordan Petroleum Rafining Company
L8MC            Long Run Marginal Cost
LSP             Letter of Sector Policy
mmfR            Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
MHAE            Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment
HOP             Ministry of Planaing
N1O             Non-Governmntal Organization
NXR             Natural Resources Authority
PCR             Project Completion Report
SBA             Stand-By Arrangement
SCP             Standard Cubic Feet
SFR             Self-Financing Ratio
sag             Statement of Expenditures
USAID           United Stater Agency for International Development



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                       Paei
INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
PART I - THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Progress in Macroeconomic Adjustment and Stabilization . . .1
Macroeconomic Prospects, Financing Requirements
and Creditworthiness .................. .                              4
Bank Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
PARE   II - THE SECTORAL CONT3XT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Energy Resources .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 7
Government Strategy  .8...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 3
Institutional Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Environmental Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Energy Conservation  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
PART III - THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT OPERATION   . . . . . . . .  12
Loan History .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Bank Group Adjustment Operations in Jordan . . . . . . . .  13
Bank Group Involvement in the Energy Sector   . . . . . . .  13
Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Letter of Sector Policy   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Restructuring Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Developmental Impact ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
PAPT IV - THE ESAL REFORMS   .....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  ....    .    15
Macroeconomic Framework   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Pricing and Investment Reforms . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Institutional Reforms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Environmental Protection Reforms . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Energy Conservation Reforms .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
PART V - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ESAL .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Loan Amount, Cofinancing and Tranching .  . . . . . . . . .  24
Implementation and Monitoring .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Procurement, Disbursement and Audit Reporting   ...  .             .    .  24
Loan Conditions .................... . 25
Social Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Benefits and Risks ................... .  28
,PART VI - RE4OM ENDATION ................. . 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTgMNT LOA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
ANNEXES
I. Economic Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
II. Projections of Key Macroeconomic Indicators,
Balance of Payments and Government Finance . . . . . . . . 34
III.  Letter of Sector Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
IV.  Policy and Institutional Actions Matrix  . . . . . . . . . . 45
V. Supplementary Project Data Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
VI.  Consolidated Financial Projections for the
Power Entities ..................... . 52
VII. Methodology for Calculation of Petroleum
Product  Prices  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
VIII. Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File .................... . 63
IX.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Ciedits and
IFC  Investments    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64



FOR OFCIL USE OnY
THE HALSHEITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENRGY SC       ADJUSTMT LOAN
Borrower:         The Hasheamite Kingdom of Jordan
Amount:           US$80 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Objectives:       A key objective is to address the supply-side constraints to
macroeconomic growth imposed by the energy sector, including
their adverse effects. on recurrent macroeconomic and fiscal
balances.  An important first step is to quickly restore the
finane.ial viability of the power subsector to ensure that it
can operate on a commercial basis and finance its investment
needs. A second objective is to restructure the energy
sector, both financially and institutionally, to establish
an enabling environment for sustainable sector growth and
development.
DsesrLRtip£       The ESAL supports comprehensive reforms to: (a) rationalize
energy prices to ensure they cover economic costs and
satisfy commercial goals; (b) restore the financial
viability and commercialization of power enterprises; (c)
restructure the power subsector and corporatize enterprises
in both the power and oil/gas subsectors; (d) establish the
enabling conditions to allow private sector investment in
power generation and distribution; (e) establish a
transparent regulatory framework for the power subsector;
(f) strengthen institutional arrangements for sector policy
formulation and planning; and (g) strengthen measures for
environmental protection and energy conservation. A policy
and institutional actions matrix spelling out the actions
already taken and actions to be taken, and the proposed
timing, is given in Annex IV.
Benefits:         The ESAL would complement and deepen the Government's
ongoing adjustment program; it would: (a) help to ensure
that energy sector enterprises contribute to economic
development with a maximum degree of autonomy and financial
self-sufficiency, and at least cost to the economy; (b)
contribute to reducing the fiscal imbalance particularly
through the adjustment of energy prices and the phasing out
of subsidies; (c) provide quick disbursements in support of
.ordan's balance of payments requirements; (d) help to
remove price distortions while reducing inflation through
improved resource efficiency; (e) improve the enabling
environment, including the regulatory framework, for private
sector inirestment and participation and more effective and
efficient management of both the power and oil and gas
This document ha a  estcd distibution and my be used by reipients ony In th performnce
of their offica dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disckosed without Word Bank authoriation.



- ii -
subsectors; and (f) help to improve energy conservation and
to safeguard and enhance environmental protection in energy
operations.
Rfisks:           The primary risk is that social and political opposition may
weaken the Government's resolve to implement its commitments
under the macroeconomic adjustment program and, thus,
compromise the implementation of the ESAL. A failure to
maintain macroeconomic stability could jeopardize the
success of the ESAL. Thus, the maintenance of a sound,
medium-term macroeconomic framework supported by an
appropriate external financing plan would be a condition for
each tranche release. However, the Government is firmly
committed to the reform process, as evidenced by the recent
implementation of politically difficult measures, such as
the introduction of consumption taxes .nd significant
increases in energy prices in June 1993. Risks of policy
reversals under the ESAL are manageable, since it
incorporates: (a) measures to help mitigate the effects of
the reform measures on the poorest segments of society; and
(b) a three-tranche design, which would enhance the Bank's
ability to monitor and help guide the implementation of the
reform program.
Poverty Category: Not applicable.
Disbursements:    The loan would be disbursed in three tranches of US$40
million, US$20 million and US$20 million, respectively. The
first tranche would be available upon effectiveness,
expected by December 1, 1993, and the second and third
tranches would be disbursed after compliance with the
release conditions, expected by May 1994 and May 1995,
respectively. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1995.   Retroactive financing of up to US$16
million (20 percent of the loan amount) for expenditures
after July 1, 1993 is proposed. Disbursement would be
against general imports, except for the standard negative
list of ineligible items. Disbursements on account of
imports of petroleum products would not exceed US$16 million
equivalent.
Schedule of
Disbursements:    Bank Fiscal Years:   FY24       FY95       FY96
------US$ millions--
Annual               40.0*      20.0       20.0
Cumulative           40.0      60.0        80.0
* Includes retroactive financing.
Financing Plan:   The Government has requested cofinancing of US$80 million
equivalent from Japan. The Japanese authorities are
considering the request.



REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report a-id recommendation on a
proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) to The Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan for US$80.0 million equivalent to provide financial support for the
Government's Erergy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP).  This program is
described in a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) received from the Government
(Annex III).  The objectives and main actions of the ESAL are summarized in a
Policy and Institutional Actions Matrix (Annex IV). The loan woul.d be on
standard IBRD terms with 20 years' maturity, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standarl variable interest rate. It would be disbursed in three
tranches. The Government has requested cofinancing from Japan.
PART I - THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
broggess in Macroeconomic Adiustment and Stabilization
2.    Historically, Jordan has had close ties with the oil-producing countries
in the Gulf region, which have provided Jordan with substantial financial
support (averaging US$600 million per year during 1984-88), major export
markets and employment for migrant workers. These ties enabled the economy to
grow rapidly in the 1970s and 1980s, reaching a per capita income level of
about US$1,690 in 1982. However, the Jordanian economy faltered and then
stagnated in the 1980s, mirroring developments in oil prices and the drop in
incomes of neighboring oil-producing countries. The stagnating economy also
reflected the Government's protectionist and interventionist economic policy
orientation, which, when combined with Jordan's limited resource base, led to
an extremely narrow economic structure and persistent internal and external
imbalances, including a large debt overhang (debt/GDP ratio of 160X in 1989).
Per capita income declined to about US$1,060 (1991), a drop of about 37X over
the 1982 level in real terms.
3.    In mid-1989, the Government began implementing a comprehensive
adjustment program. The Bank and the IMF collaborated closely in supporting
this program with an IMF Stand-By Arrangement, an Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) (No. 3142-JO), approved on December 14, 139, and a
Paris Club debt rescheduling. Since 1989, the Covernment has implemented a
number of measures to redress macroeconomic imbalances, reduce distortions in
the trade regime and restore economic growth. It has: (a) implemented
deficit-reducing measures to contain military expenditures, decrease consumer
subsidies and enhance revenue generation; (b) significantly devalued the
exchange rate and then pursued a flexible exchange rate policy to maintain
competitiveness; (c) reduced maximum import tariff rates (with some
exceptions, from 318X to 501) and tariff exemptions, which once provided for



-2-
nearly half of all imports, and removed quantitative restrictions on imports;
(d) deregulted Interest rates; and (e) strengthened institutional support for
private sector development in trade and industry.
4.    The Gulf crisis in 1990 led to a loss of Gulf country export markets and
aid, as well as to losses in revenue from transit trade, tourism and workers'
remittaices. Jordan also had to shoulder unanticipated social costs for
returning migrants. Despite these adversities, the policy changes adopted by
the Government reduced macroeconomic imbalances and enabled the economy to
cope successfully. Both the 1991 fiscal and current account deficits were
below the 1990 levels. GDP growth in 1991 gained momentum, and domestic
inflation was brought down to about 5X.
5.    The Government continued Its adjustment efforts and, in February l9S2,
adopted a new 18-month IMF Stand-By Arrangement. A second Paris Club
reschediling was also achieved in February 1992, and the Bank released the
second tranche of the ITP.AL in March 1992.
6.    The economic recovery in 1992 was robust but was due, in part, to
exceptional factors such as resettlement investments by returnees. The
construction sector grew in real terms by some 221, agriculture by 10, and
manufacturing by about 141, fueling recovery in the services sector as well.
The unemployment rate fell from a hxgh of about 252, in the immediate
aftermath of the Gulf crisis, to around 161. A sharp increase in revenues
combined with strict government control over current expenditures reduced the
budget deficit to about 41 of GDP (Table 1), well below the 1991 level of
17.91 and the IMF target of 13.7X. The Government's cautious credit strategy
further helped to contain the growth in the net domestic assets of the banking
system to a level well below the IW monetary target. Domestic inflation was
contained at 52 in 1992. Reflecting the more buoyant domestic economy,
imports of merchandise increased substantially, from about US$2.6 billion in
1991 to US$3.3 billion In 1992, but continued growtn in exports and
remittances led to further improvement in the balance of payments. The 1992
current account deficit, excluding grants and transfers of workers' savings,
is estimated at about US$741 million, or about 161 of GDP. The large inflows
of grants and loans and debt rescheduling were more than sufficient to finance
the deficit; by the end of 1992, foreign exchange reserves (excluding gold)
had increased to about US$750 million, or about 3 months of imports.
7.    A Consultative Group (CG) meeting was convened in January 1993 and
received pledges from the donor countries to close the 1993 financing gap. A
joint IMF/Bank mission visited Jordan in April 1993. Agreement has been
reached with the Jordanian authorities on the key policy measures needed for a
six-month extension of the current Stand-by Arrangement (SBA). Specifically,
the Government has given its commitment to adopt a general sales tax (GST) as
a prior condition for a successor SBA to be formulated in late 1993, and to
increase irrigation water charges in consultation with Bank staff, prior to
the completion of the final review under the extension of the current SBA.
The Government has already increased consumption taxes on 19 items to pave the
way for the adoption of GST and has raised energy prices sufficiently to meet
the requirements for Board presentation of the proposed ESAL.



g   g   l  g  g  X.|ZEWorE: EE~~~~A
iliR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



-4-
8.    In additlon, IMF performince criteria (to end-March 1993) have been
fully met with the exception of the CST. The extension of the current SB
would allow the Government more time to prepare the ground work for the GST to
be presented to the Parliament soon after lt reconvenes in November 1993.
Following that, a successor SBA is expected to be discussed ln late 1993. In
the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) for the ESAL, the Government has expressed
its commitment to the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomlc program
(supported by the use of IMF rescurces). Performance under that program, as
measured by compliance with agreed criteria and other financial and economic
targets, would provide the basis for proceeding wlth subsequent tranche
releases.
Macroeconomic Prosgects. gFinacina ileairements andMW  Wdiiortnhes
9.    The Government is committed to reducing the fiscal deficit from about
182 of GDP ln 1991 to 3X of GDP by 1996. The strong fiscal performance in
1992 is a reflection, in part, cf exceptional, and nonrecurrlng, factors; over
the longer term, the revenue level will need to be maintained at about 31X of
GDP. Steady GDP growth, combined witi. limited expenditure reductions (the
share of discretionary expenditure in the budget is small), will be required
to achieve deficit reduction targets. Revenue generation measures will
include the CST, which will also broaden the tax base, simplify tax
administration and shift the tax structure in favor of savings and investment.
The expenditure reduction program includes the cancellation of a large
military aircraft contract, further reductions in food subsidies and the
restructuring of loss-making public enterprises (including price increases and
institutional reforms). The Government is also committed to maintaining a
competitive exchangi rate and a balance of payments position compatible with
growth and creditworthiness objectives, as well as to reducing protection and
government intervention in the economy.
10.   Bank projections indicate that, for the remainder of the decade, GDP
growth in the range of 5-6X per annum is feasible (Table 1). The GDP growth
scenario envisages an investment level of 22.51 of GDP in 1993, declining to
about 201 in 1996, and an import elasticity, on average, of about 0.7. The
implicit improvement in investment and import efficiency reflects the
anticipated impact of policy reforms, as well as the current absence of
serious capacity bottlenecks in the Jordanian economy. At the same time, an
increasing share of investment must be financed by domestic savings, which are
projected to increase from about 3.81 of GDP in 1991 to 5.01 in 1996.
According to Bank estimates, the required increase in domestic savings would
not entail much decline in per capita consumption during 1993-96.
11. The significant increase in domestic savings is expected to be achieved
by reducing the deficit from about 6.41 of GDP in 1993 to about 31 in 1996.
Excluding the benefits anticipated from the ESAL, public savings would
increase from about 0.41 of GDP in 1993 to over 4.71 of GDP in 1996. Private
savings would be enhanced by the GST, which would gradually shift to a value-
added tax, thereby strengthening its consumption-restraining impact.
Improving financial intermediation in Jordan would also help domestic resource
mobilization.



12. Jordan's growth prospects and balance of payments (BOP) Fosition will be
influenced by its exceptionally large debt overhang. Substantial inflows of
aid and yearly debt rescheduling will be required. Since Jordan's per capita
income level precludes it from accessing the more generous debt relief now
available to the debt-stressed, low-income developing countries, Jordan needs
to remain vigilant in its debt mbaagement, find more innovative approaches to
debt relief and seek financial assistance on highly concessional terms.
Assuming such assistance is forthcoming and the adjustment program remains in
place, Jordan's creditworthiness should gradually improve.
net two years,
the curreentso
taccut daefct.
(escuding that  al   lgbedb?ilb   echdld4hr  ol  eant.b
grnantscisg gap ofaotU$9   ilo   o93              ttelat.  CGmetig
aveoragpede abouttac   faou  S 3milo   owr   lsngtegp
USn81  millio US23  milo  ha  been lef unildfr  93           hssepce
(15, of necesary  byadatw?freevs4oosweeudrtnal
Thisbdefict, maes omtet   o   94a  tels  G   evn   nufle
galong wioth the 8mlln   Ms   fti   a  i   xetdt b   udda h
themcleaances  ofihaecnevtieyetmtd   ra ata rwono
reserves, wl                                                 1 



Al"n Assistance Stratea
14    The IMF-supported stabilization and growth measures provlde for a
satlsfactory macroeconomic framework and address the major macroeconomic
imbalances. However, to complement these measures, the Government must tackle
the supply-side constraints to growth at the sector-level, including their
adverse effects on recurrent macroeconomlc and fiscal balances. The
Government has, therefore, broadened the adjustment program to include the
diversification of the economy and its export markets in an outward-oriented
and prlvate-sector-led approach. Its objectlves are to create an efflcient
enabling environment for the business sector, including appropriate
macroeconomic balances and undistorted incentives, and a sustalnable
institutional and policy framework for delivering needed physical and social
infrastructure. A plan to restructure the lmport tariff regime, rationalize
import and export procedures and investment regLalations, and open up new
export markets is being formulated with assistance from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID). In manufacturing, the
Government is implementing measures to restructure incentives and strengthen
supporting lnstitutions. In agriculture, the Government has deregulated
production and trade and improved farmer services.
15.  The Bank's assistance strategy targets support for macroeconomic and
sector adjustments, emphasizing: (a) the need for sustainable growth in the
productive sectors and improvements in energy, water and transport
infrastructure; (b) long-term development goals in reducing poverty, slowing
down population growth and protecting the environment; and (c) the need to
mobilize external financing on concesslonal terms. The pr'posed ESAL would
address the critical need for policy and institutional reifrms in the energy
sector. In the agricultural sector, the Government, assisted by the Bank, is
considering further measures to: (a) phase out subsidies on wheat, barley and
livestock feed; (b) rationalize the trade incentive regime including the
marketing arrangements for agriculture produce; (c) strengthen research and
extension; and (d) recover the operations and maintenance (06M) costs of
trrigation systems and adopt a market-based mechanism to allocate water
resources efficiently. An Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) scheduled
for FY95 would be the principal instrument for implementation of these
measures. The Government has given its commitment to the initial increase in
water charges, paving the way for further increases towards full O&M cost
recovery prior to the Board presentation of the proposed ASAL. Under a
recently approved Transport III Project (FY93), agreement has been reached on
measures to address the rapid deterioration of Jordan's extensive network of
roads that is due ln part to inadequate maintenance and weak enforcement of
axle load limits.
16. Jordan has achieved good social indicators relative to its income level
and has established a functioning social safety net to deal with existing
poverty. However, against the recent background of increasing poverty and
tightening resource constraints, there is a clear need to improve the
targeting of the social safety net and to expand the involvement of non-
governmental organlzations (NGO) and the private sector in the delivery of
services. The Government has, therefore, Initiated a poverty assessment in
collaboration with the Bank. The recently approved Health Management Project



(FY93) includes policy and institutional reforms to improve cost recovery.
sector management and family planning services. At the last CG meeting, the
Government reiterated its intention to address population growth issues.
Finally, the Bank will help Jordan to improve the management of natural
resources and to strengthen its environmental regulation and onforcement
capacity. Key initiatives include measures under the ESAL and the proposed
ASAL. In addition, the Bank is administering a recently approved Ozone
DepletLng Substances Phase-out Project financed by the Ozone Pr ects Trust
Fund, and an Industrial Pollution Control Study financed by a grant from
Japan.
17. The Bank will continue to assist Jordan in obtaining adequate and timely
financing on highly concessional terms through the CG process and under the
proposed ESAL and ASAL operations. The Government has carried out a Paris
Club rescheduling and has pursued vigorously a debt work-out with non-Paris
Club creditors, including debt buy-backs on favorable terms, to settle all
debt obligations to the former Soviet Union. A restructuring of commercial
bank debt is currently being negotiated.
18.   Under the present lending scenario, which includes the two sector-based
adjustment loans (Table 2), prudential exposure guidelines would be observed
within comfortable margins. Bank exposure (i.e. IBRD debt outstanding) in
1992 was only about 71 of total debt outstanding. The ratio of IBRD debt
service to total debt service was well within exposure guidelines, but it is
expected to increase from the 1992 level of 7.5X to about 121 by the year
2000, given the highly concessional flows assumed from other donors. The
ratio of IBRD debt service to total exports is projected to remain below 41
throughout the decade.
MART II - TE SECTORAL CONTEXT
Ener;v Resources
19.  Jordan is almost entirely dependent on imported oil to meet its
commercial energy needs. The country's modest energy resources consist of
small amounts of proven oil resources at Hamzah and gas reserves at Risha
(about 155 billion SCF), oil shale deposits, some tar sands, a small
hydropower potential (87 GWh per year), and a few low temperature geothermal
sources. Hydrocarbon structures have been found to exist in a number of
areas. At present, Jordan produces about 700 barrels per day of oil and 22
million cft/day of natural gas.  Currently, the gas is used to fuel two 30 MW
gas turbine power plants; an expansion of gas utilization is being planned.
In addition, efforts have been made to promote solar and wind energy, but for
ti.e near term, renewable energy is not likely to make more than a marginal
contribution to Jordan's commercial energy requirements.
20    In the power subsector, the total installed nominal capacity is about
1,050 MW, of which about 700 MW is steam. Gas turbines fueled by diesel and
natural gas account for about 180 MW and 60 MW, respectively. Hydroelectric
capacity is less than 10 NW.  Diesel plants account for the remaining 100 MW.
The main power plants are located near Amman (363 MW), at Aqaba (260 MW), and



- 8 -
at the Risha gas field (60 MW). Total electricity consumption in 1992 is
estimated at 3,680 GWh. About 70 GWh was exported in 1992 to Syria.
Electricity consumption per capita in 1992 was about 1,080 kWh.
Goermenmt Straleal
21.  Jordan's dependence on imported oil is expected to continue over the
foreseeable future. The Government's energy policy has focused mainly on
reducirg the impact of the oil import bill on the balance of payments by
improving the efficiency of energy use and by providing energy supplies at the
least cost to the economy. In the mid-1980s, the Government emphasized the
exploration and development of domestic energy resources; it also stressed
improved energy efficiency by rationalizing energy prices and providing
economic and diversified energy supplies. It implemented a number of sector
reforms, which included: (a) promoting oil and gas exploration activities by
private and bilateral oil companies; (b) developing renewable energy resources
with foreign assistance; (c) reducing energy subsidies by implementing
economic energy pricing measures; and (d) promoting demand management and
energy conservation measures to encourage efficiency in energy use.
22.   These reforms helped to check the rate of growth in energy demand,
promoted some indigenous oil and gas production, and encouraged participation
by the private sector. However, since 1988, certain developments, including
major exchange rate devaluations and a failure to raise tariffs, have
exacerbated sector issues. New and continuing problems include: inadequacies
in the structure and pricing policies of electricity, petroleum products and
natural gas; financial and institutional weaknesses in energy sector
enterprises; an inadequate regulatory environment; and weaknesses in
environmental protection and energy conservation. The Government's control
over prices and tariffs has adversely affected the liquidity of energy
enterprises and contributed to severe financial weaknesses. The present
organizational and regulatory arrangements are not adequate to achieve
commercialization objectives nor to promote economically efficient and
sustainable sector development. In sum, the present enabling environment is
hampering the country's ability to effectively address resource efficiency
issues, manage resource development, and attract greater private sector
participation. The Government therefore intends to restructure the energy
sector, both financially and institutionally, to lay the basis for sustainable
growth and development. Consistent with the structural adjustment of Jordan's
economy in the medium term, the Government has formulated an adjustment
program for the energy sector that would be supported by the proposed ESAL.
Institutional Setting
23. Two ministries share the responsibility for the energy sector: the.
Kinistry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) and the Ministry of Planning
(MOP). Coordination between the ministries on energy matters is provided by
MENR, which is responsible for overall energy sector planning and policies,
including the development of indigenous energy resources, energy pricing and
energy conservation. MOP reviews the energy sector plans and incorporates
them within the national planning process. It also coordinates foreign
borrowing and technical assistance requirements for development projects.



-9-
24.   The private sector plays an important role in Jordan's energy sector.
Private sector participation is substantial in comparison with other countries
at a comparable stage of development. It is active in electricity
distribution, oil and gas exploration, and oil refining, storage, transport
and distribution.
25.  Epwer Subsector.  MEKR regulates the electricity distribution companies
and coordinates sector policy and planning. The principal operating entities
are the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA), the Jordan Electric Power Company
(JEPCO) and the Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO). JEA, established
In 1967, is the dominant operating entity; its electricity sales in 1992
accounted for about 63X of the sector total. JEPCO sales were the next
largest with 30X of the sector total, followed by IDECO with 71. JEA is
responsible for the construction and operation of most electricity generation
and transmission facilities, for bulk sales and for some distribution mainly
in rural areas to about 74,500 consumers in 1992, or 13% of the total of about
570,000; it is a wholly government-owned utility. Bulk sales accounted for
about 911 of total JEA sales in 1991; bulk sales to JEPCO and IDECO accounted
for about 66Z of JEA sales.
26. JZPC0 is an electricity distribution company established under Jordanian
company law; about 771 of its shares, which are listed on the Amman stock
exchange, are held by private and institutional investors. JEA and the
municipalities hold the remaining 23X. In 1992, JEPCO had about 360,000
consumers (641 of the total), concentrated in the Amman and Zarqa governorates
in the center of the country, which JEPCO serves under a 50-year concession
agreement established in 1962. The agreement permits JEPCO to earn a return
on capital ranging from 7.51 to 161 on the nominal value of equity capital.
27. IDECO is also a distribution company established under company law, but
most of its shares are held by the Government and local municipalities; only
111 of its shares are held by the private sector. In 1992, IDECO consumers
numbered about 132,000 (about 231 of the total) located primarily in rural
areas around Irbid. IDECO operates under a 50-year concession agreement,
established in 1961, that is similar to the JEPCO agreement. Both JEPCO and
IDECO have expanded distribution to rural areas in response to Government
requests.
28. The JEA board of directors is chaired by the Minister of Energy and
Mineral Resources. The other board members are mainly from government
departments. Currently, the only nongoverrment member is from JEPCO; there
are no rep-3sentatives of consumers, industry or commerce. Directors serve a
three-year term and are eligible for reappointment at the end of this period.
JEA has operated largely on a commercial basis; however, in 1991 it came under
the civil service code, which greatly limited its autonomy especially over its
budget, borrowings and procurement. In addition, JEA employees became subject
to civil service pay and conditions of service. This has led to considerable
loss of morale especially among more senior staff whose salaries and benefits
were directly affected. Several of the most experienced staff have left JEA
for better positions overseas or in the private sector. To redress this



- 10-
situation, the Government restored managerial autonomy to JIA in March 1993,
Including independence from civil service regulations.
29.   The JIA employees are technically competent, and the company is well
managed. It has developed an effective corporate planning process that sets
out its objectives and targets for the ensuing five years. Management
information systems are well developed, and the establishment of on-line
integrated systems is underway. JEA provides an international consulting
service through JEA International. This affords its staff opportunities to
work abroad, and several assignments have been undertaken in neighboring
countries such as Yemen, Egypt and Mauritania. JEA also manufactures concrete
and steel poles and has been planning the manufacture of distribution panels,
transformers and other electrical equipment to meet its own needs.
30. Oil and Gas Subsector. The principal institutions in the oil and gas
subsector are the Natural Resources Authority (NRA), a government authority
under MEMR that is responsible for all activities relating to geological
surveys and the exploration and development of minerals and hydrocarbons, and
the Jordan Petroleum Refining Company (JPRC), a private company responsible
for the refining, storage, transport and distribution of petroleum
productions. All operational entities are under the jurisdiction of MEMR.
NRA, on behalf of MENR, is responsible for liaising with the international oil
companies (IOC) and other private sector companies in the mining and minerals
subsector.
31.   Jordan has vigorously pursued a policy of exploring and exploiting
hydrocarbon resources and renewable domestic energy resources to decrease its
reliance on imported oil and its growing oil import bill. Between 1946 and
1978, seven IOCs undertook geological and geophysical surveys and drilled 14
exploration wells. Although small hydrocarbon shows were observed, no
commercial discoveries were made. Exploration in Jordan is hampered by a
complex geological structure, which lessens the country's attractiveness to
TOCs. The TOCs, expecting to find "middle-sized oil fields" were disappointed
and abandoned their concessions. However, the Government remained convinced
that past exploration efforts were inadequate. It decided to continue its
strategy of promoting exploration by IOCs and also to enhance its own efforts.
In 1981, it created a petroleum department in NRA to launch its own
exploration program.
32. A Bank-assisted project (Loan 2371-JO of January 9, 1984) provided NRA
with technical and financial assistance to promote exploration by IOCs. As a
result, in the 1980s, despite declining oil prices and a decrease in
international exploration activity, over 50 companies reviewed the NRA
exploration data base; and three companies, AMOCO, HUNT and Petrofina,
subsequently entered into production sharing agreements with NRA. In
addition, three companies, OQV (Austria), the Japan National Oil Company and
Petro-Canada signed technical cooperation agreements with NRA. Unfortunately,
the limited exploration efforts by these companies did not result in any new
oil or gas discoveries, and, except for Petro-Canada, which is providing
technical assistance to NRA, all have closed their operations.



v 11 -
33.  In spite of the disappointing performance of IOCs in finding
hydrocarbons, NRA continued its exploration activity with assistance from
Canada. It reassessed all previous data and, based on a now interpretatlon of
these data, undertook extensive selsmic surveys, conducted geological and
geophysical studies and drilled 66 exploration and development wells. This
resulted in a small, subcommercial oil discovery at Hamzah In 1984, followed
by the discovery of gas at Rlsha in 1987. NRA also continued to promote
exploratlon activity by IOCs. In July 1992, NRA entered lnto a new production
sharing agreement with Hanbo (Korea) for the exploration of hydrocarbons in
the Risha area.
nLomental Protmeston
34. Jordan has a substantial body of laws relating to the protection of
environmental resources and pollution control. Over the years, laws and
regulations for the protection of the environment; water, land, cultural,
historical and archaeological resources; marine and coastal resources; and
agricultural lands have been developed. Laws relating to agriculture, water
use and wastewater disposal, and antiquities are well developed and enforced.
There is a reasonable awareness both within the Government and among the
general population of the need to protect the environment. In September 1991,
the Prime Sinister issued a general instruction to the Ministries of Trade and
Industry and MMRAE to study the likely environmental impact of all major
projects, in consultation with non-governmental organizations (NGO), before
project implementation. However, economic pressures, particularly since the
G*ulf crisis, have slowed down the environmental thrust in development.
Existlng laws or codes of practice in areas such as soil pollution prevention,
solid and hazardous waste management, power plant and industrial air emlssion
standards and the protection of ambient air quality, require strengthening to
bring environmental protection to internationally accepted levels. In an
effort to develop a more comprehensive environmental policy, the Government
adopted a National Environment Strategy in 1991 and is seeking international
assistance in its implementation. As a first step, it has drafted a
comprehensive environmental law, which is under review by various agencies, to
help protect the country's natural and human environment in the context of
sustainable development. The Government plans to submit the proposed law to
the Parliament in late 1993 for enactment.
35. The Department of the Environment (DOE), which is a division of the
linistry of Municipal and Rural Affairs and the Environment (NIRAE), was
created in 1980 to be a national environmental authority. DOE is a small unit
with limited resources which is not adequately structured or empowered to
enable it to monitor and enforce environmental regulations. The existing
regulatory framework is fragmented with over 17 ministries and government
agencies, Mnmerous municipalities and village councils regulating various
activities from an environmental perspective. This results in duplication as
well as conflicts in environmental regulation. Many of the regulatory
controls are exercised through licensing processes without sufficient analysis
or authority to ensure sustainable and efficient utilization of the resources.
For example, the linistry of Water and Irrigation and the associated water
authorities license, monitor and control water supply and waste water
discharges. However, these entities have no authority to evaluate and enforce



- 12 -
priorities that would slow down the unsustainable depletion rate of the
country's scarce water resources. Under its National Environment Strategy,
the Government intends to designate a single, competent national regulatory
authority, as a successor to DOE, to develop environmental laws following
international standards and guidelines and to monitor and enforce them.
36. In the energy sector, NEMR is responsible for oil and gas exploration,
the development of wells, oil refining and distribution as well as electricity
generation and distribution. The operating units in MEMR that perform these
functions have generally taken reasonable actions to protect the environment.
NRA hs made prudent and economically and environmentally sound decisions to
eliminate gas flaring in the Risha fields and has reclaimed pilot excavations
carried out for exploratory oilshale investigations. JEA plans to conduct an
environmental assessment of a proposed extension to the Aqaba power plant in
conjunction with project feasibility studies.
Snergr Conservation
37. Energy conservation is an important element of the Government's energy
sector strategy because of the significant potential savings that could be
anticipated through effective pricing and the adoption of energy efficiency
measures in power, refining, industries, and by households and other energy
users. Past government policies have focussed on maintaining fuel prices at
or above international levels and electricity prices close to economic costs.
In addition, to supplement price signals, MEMR established an energy
conservation unit in 1984 to focus on promoting the application of sound
energy management principles in major sectors in the economy. Regulations
that cover a broad range of energy-related activities and equipment, such as
lighting, insulation, and space heating, have been put in place. With
assistance from the Bank and bilateral donors such as USAID, MEMR has
undertaken comprehensive energy audits of key industries and commercial and
transport institutions, accounting for over 40X of the country's energy
consumption, and is monitoring their follow-up. Achievements so far include
energy audits of about 17 large industrial plants (e.g., refinery, cement,
fertilizer, potash, phosphate), and 30 small- and medium-sized industrial
plants, commercial facilities and buildings, an energy survey of about 500
factories, and three policy studies. The potential savings identified by the
energy audits are equivalent to more than 21 of Jordan's oil consumption. So
far, investments totalling an estimated JD 0.7 million (about US$1.0 million
equivalent) have been made to capitalize on audit findings. In the power
subsector, JEA has established organizational units to identify, follow-up and
capitalize on conservation and load management opportunities, which are taken
into account in its corporate planning process.
PART III - THE PROPOSED ADJUSTJEWT OPERATION
Lean Histor=
38. The Government and the Bank have collaborated closely in the past few
years on two major sector studies that have helped the Government to develop a
comprehensive energy sector strategy. The most recent, an Energy Sector Study



- 13 -
(Report No. 7984-JO of February 7, 1990) carried out in 1989/90, was a joint
effort to help refine the Government's strategy in light of the severe
financial imbalances imposed by the economic downturn experienced in 1988/89
and the growing financial and institutional distortions in the sector. The
energy sector institutions were not able to absorb the effects of the currency
devaluation, due to their limited authority to increase prices and, more
importantly, the lack of a sustainable strategy for addressing key sector
issues. The dialogue on the study led to the preparation of an energy sector
adjustment operation in the context of an IMF Stand-By Arrangement and the
Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL). The emergence of the Gulf
crisis in 1990/91, however, led to an interruption in the IMF adjustment
program and in the ESAL dialogue. In 1992, following a resumption of the
adjustment pracess, the Government requested that the dialogue on the ESAL be
resumed. A Bank preparation mission visited Jordan in September 1993 and the
ESAL was subsequently appraised in April 1993. Negotiations were held in
Amman from July 25 to August 7, 1993. The Jordanian delegation was headed by
Dr. Safwan Touqan, Secretary General, Ministry of Planning.
apnk Group Adjustment Onerationa in Jordan
39. The ITPAL, approved in December 1989, is the only previous adjustment
operation assisted by the Bank in Jordan. A Project Completion Report (PCR)
is under preparation. The objective of the ITPAL was to assist the Government
in responding to the acute economic difficulties at the time, by deepening its
macroeconomic adjustment efforts, and by reforming the trade and industrial
policies to lay the basis for sustainable long-term growth. The Government
implemented the ITPAL measures successfully; the first tranche was fully
disbursed by June 1990 and, following the interruption of the Gulf crisis, the
second tranche was released in March 1992. An important lesson suggested by
the ITPAL experience is that sector adjustment is not likely to succeed in the
absence of an appropriate macroeconomic framework.
Bank Group Involvement in the Energv Sector
40. To date, the Bank Group has provided seven project specific
loans/credits amounting to US$399.5 million since 1973. All of the projects
are closed, and PCRs have been issued; the most recent is the PCR issued on
December 28, 1992 for the Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO approved June 26,
1986). The loans have assisted many aspects of energy sector development,
including electric power generation, transmission and distribution, petroleum
exploration, energy conservation and energy planning. Recent loans have
concentrated on improving the operating efficiency and reliability of the
power subsector by extending the distribution system, reducing system losses,
introducing new technologies and promoting institutional development. All
seven projects substantially achieved the objectives for which they were
designed although, in some cases, with delays. The recently issued Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of April 13, 1993 for the Energy Development
Project (Loan 2371-JO approved on December 20, 1983) concluded that project
institutions in the power and oil and gas sectors were strengthened as a
result of the project. In addition, it concluded that the sustainability of
their corresponding project components, which covered investments and
technical assistance in power distribution and petroleum exploration, was



- 14 -
assured. However, it also concluded that the sustainability of other project
components, covering energy planning, energy conservation and renewable
energy, is highly dependent on future organizational and policy reforms.
Lessons highlighted by the audit relate to the need to ensure that the design
and lmplementation of technical assistance components are consistent with the
regulatory and policy framework and possible follow-up operations. It also
stressed the importance of supervision plans particularly for complex
projects. The PCR for the Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO) cited the
importance of timely interventions to address unanticipated crises that may
arise during project execution and noted that the increased flexibility of
private utilities relatlve to public utilities makes them better able to alter
project scope without sacrificing overall objectives.
Rationale for hank Involvement
41.   Both the Government and the Bank consider it essential to eliminate the
supply-side, energy sector constraints which are contributing to the country's
chronic fiscal and balance of payment imbalances, whlIe putting in place an
enabling environment conducive to efficient, long-term socio-economic growth
and private sector development. The Bank strongly supports the Government's
reform proposals, which represent the culmination of joint study and analysis.
At this juncture, Bank support is critically needed to help the Government
guide the reform process, while also helping to finance Jordan's immediate
balance of payments requirements. Bank assistance for energy sector reforms
would complement the joint IMF/Bank dialogue with the Government on
macroeconomic policy issues and the IMF-supported stabilization and growth
measures. It would also continue the major developmental role the Bank has
played in the energy sector of Jordan since 1973. The policy reforms under
the proposed operation would be consistent with those recommended in the World
Bank Policy Papers published in 1993 and entitled "The World Bank's Role in
the Electric Power Sector* and "Energy Efficiency and Conservation in the
Developing World."
Letter of Sector Policy
42.   The Government has recorded its commltment in the Letter of Sector
Policy (LSPj to maintain a supportive macroeconomic framework and to implement
energy sector reforms to: (a) rationalize domestic energy prices to ensure
they cover economic costs and satisfy commercial goals; (b) restore the
financial viability and self-financing of energy sector enterprises; (c)
commercialize and corporatize sector enterprises and open the sector to
private ownership and participatior; (d) increase the access and reliance of
the power subsector on capital markets and reduce dependence on financial
support from the Government; (e) separate ownershLp, management and regulatory
functions and establish a transparent legislative and regulatory framework
conducive to competition and private sector participation; and (f) improve
energy conservation and environmental protection in energy operations. This
agenda is consistent with the findings and recommendations of the 1990 Energy
Sector Study.



- 15-
43.  The Government has initiated a comprehensive restructuring study
financed by a grant from Japan to flesh out the detailed monitorable action
plans for the required institutional, financial and regulatory reform
measures, as well as the operational and legislative action programs for
implementing them. The study would be completed prior to second tranche
release and its findings and recommendations would be taken lnto account in
the relevant ESAL conditionality. The various components of the study are
described more fully in the discusslon of the adjustment program in Part IV of
this report. Financing for the study has been obtained under a Japanese Grant
Facility. Technical proposals from consultants have been received and
evaluated; contract award is expected by October 1993 and the completion of
the study by March 1994, prior to second tranche release which is expected in
May 1994.
Dbeelgn=al ZmuaCt
44. At the completion of the ESAL, major changes in the energy sector are
envisaged: the energy sector would be characterized by rationalized energy
prices; an independent and transparent regulatory framework; an openness to
private sector ownership and participation in sector enterprises and
activities; autonomous, commercially oriented and viable power companies; an
autonomous, commercially oriented oil and gas corporation; an environmental
regulatory and institutional framework conducive to responsible behavior in
energy operations; and improved energy conservation programs designed to
complement and supplement price signals. These changes are essential for
ensuring sustainable development and growth at both the macroeconomic and
sector levels. The adjustment program is also expected to generate
substantial fiscal benefits while incorporating measures to protect the poor
during the adjustment process (paras. 82 to 84, and 87).
PART IV - THE ESAL REFORMS
N&caoecn=L, lraewok
45. The Government has now met the macroeconomic conditions for proceeding
with the proposed ESAL: (a) IMF performance criteria (to end-March, 1993) have
been met fully with the exception of the GST; the IMF Board met on July 2,
1993, and endorsed the request for extension of the current SBA based on the
Government's recent adjustment of consumption taxes, and commitment to the
adoption of the GST as a prior condition for a successor SBA; (b) financing
sufficient to close the 1993 financing gap was assured at the last CG meeting
on January 27-28, 1993; and (c) tentative lndications of adequate financial
support for 1994 have been obtained and discussions between the Government and
the IMF on the successor SBA are scheduled for late 1993. The proposed ESAL
ls also expected to be supported by the successor SBA. Another CG meeting to
review progress of the adjustment program and to firm up the 1994 financing is
'A maiery matriz of the policy end lntitutional reform under the ESAL is given in Annez IV.



- 16 -
scheduled to take place in early 1994. The maintenance of a sound, medium-
term macroeconomic framework supported by an appropriate external financing
plan would be a condition for the release of both the second and third
tranches.
Pr=cing and Investment Reforms
46. Electricit Pricing and Investment. Jordan's three power entities
operated profitably until 1988 when major losses began to accumulate following
the substantial devaluations of the Jordanian currency ln 1988/89 (about 75),
threatening their financial viability. Average tariffs fell to about only 62X
of long-run marginal costs (LRKC). Apart from some selective adjustments in
rates for large industries and hotels, no general increases in tariffs have
been made. As a result, the power entities are in poor financial condition
and are experiencing liquidity and profitability problems. In recent years,
the power subsector has not been able to cover its debt service obligations or
finance any of its expansion needs from internal sources. The debt service
coverage ratio (DSCR) for the sector has been only about 0.6 times.
47.    In 1992, JEA generated a net profit, after interest, for the first time
since 1987. The rate of return on equity was only about 2X. JEPCO achieved
small profits in 1991 and 1992, sufficient to pay modest dividends to
shareholders. IDECO also achieved small profits in 1991 and 1992 following
several years of losses, but has not paid any dividends since 1987. IDECO is
dependent on substantial compensation payments from JEA, which are made to
partially offset the impact of uniform tariffs that the Government introduced
in 1984. In 1992, on a subsector-wide basis, the rate of return on equity was
about 71. Currently, there is no policy to base rate regulation on a rate of
return on equity target, but such a policy would be important for the
commercialization of the sector. The Government has therefore agreed that the
power entities would adopt a reasonable rate of return on equity target that
would be defined by the restructuring study (para. 43).
48.   The improvements in financial performance of the power entities in 9'Q92
were due mainly to a surge in electricity sales which increased by abou: 21)
over the previous year, and to strict controls on costs and a steady exo ange
rate. This reflects a return to normalcy following the Gulf crisis and the
increased demand caused by the large influx of returnees from the Gulf.
However, with the exception of JEPCO, the power entities were not able to meet
their debt service commitments in 1992 from internally generated funds. Thoes
funds were only sufficient to meet about 91X of their debt service
obligations, an improvement, however, over the 611 recorded in 1991. The
level of self-financing in 1992 improved to about 221 on a sector-wide basis;
in the previous three years, there has been no self-financing. The JEAs elf-
financing ratio in 1992 was nil. Currently, except for JEPCO, which plans to
issue new shares on the Amman stock exchange, the power companies are not
creditworthy enough to attract funding from local or international sources
without government support.
49.   The weak financial condition of the power entities is due primarily to.
low energy prices. In 1992, the weighted average electricity tariff of about



- 17
32.9 fils/kWh (US 4.8 cents equivalent) represented only about 86X of the Bank
estimated LRMC of 38.1 fils/kVh (US 5.6 cents/kWh equivalent). The Government
raised average tariffs by about 12X on June 15, 1993, to 36.8 fils/kWh (US 5.4
cents/kWh equlvalent), or about 97X of the estimated LRMC. Thls increase
should enable each power entity to achieve a DSCR of at least 1.0 times in
1993. The new tariff structure also reflects a better alignment of
electrLcLty rates with costs. Further improvements in the tariff structure,
to reflect the LRNC objectives for each class of consumer, would be achieved
as part of the Government's demand side management program (para. 72). Future
tariff increases would aim at the commercialization of the sector by enabling
financial targets appropriate for power utilitles to be achieved. The
Government is committed to ensuring that the power subsector meets the
financial targets, as well as covers economic costs, on both a sector-wide and
indlvldual company basis.
50. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the
second tranche, expected by May 1994, tariffs and financial restructuring
measures would be implemented to enable the power entities to cover 1001 of
the estimated LRMC and also attain financial viability by achieving a DSCR of
1.25 times and a self-financing ratio (SFR) of 201; and (b) prior to the
release of the third tranche, expected by May 1995, tariffs would be further
adjusted, as necessary, to enable the power entities to continue to cover
economlc costs (LREC) and also to achieve a financial performance consistent
with the commercial viability of power enterprises, l.e., a DSCR of 1.50 times
and a self-financing ratio of 35X. The restructuring study (para. 43) would
evaluate alternative financial restructuring measures, such as refinancing of
debt, conversion of debt to equity, sale of assets, and direct investment by
the private sector. Consolidated financial projections for the power entities
are given in Annex VI.
51. Consistent with the tariff measures, the Government has adopted a least
cost core investment program (CIP) (1993-1995) taking into account: the latest
load forecast; the availability of fuels, including domestic natural gas;
evolving tochnologies, including combined cycle power plants; and economic
fuel prices. The Government has agreed that the power entities would adhere
to a least cost investment strategy.
52. Petroleum Product PrLcing. In the LSP, the Government has recorded its
acceptance of, and commitment to, the principle of full economic pricing
(border prices plus internal transportation and distribution costs) of
petroleum products. The prices of individual petroleum products would be
adjusted to reflect economic costs. Prices would be set on the basis of an
import parity formula, reflecting changes in average economic prices during an
historical, moving-average, 12-month period. Adjustments would be made
annually. The methodology for calculating the petroleum product prices ia
described in Annex VII. At appraisal in April 1993, weighted average
petroleum prices were about 17X above international prices. However, the
relationship between domestic and border prices varies considerably among
dlfferent products. Gasoline, gas oil and LPG were above their international
prices. DomestLc kerosene, jet fuel and fuel-oil (for electricity) prices
were about 701, 76X and 771, respectively, of their international prices.



- 18 -
53. In June 1993, the Government raised the price of jet fuel by about 19X,
and the prices of kerosene and fuel-oil (for electricity) by about 16X each,
to close more than half of the gaps between domestic and international prices.
Assurances have been obtained that: (a) in accordance with the Government's
commitment to the principle of full economic pricing, economic prices of all
individual petroleum products would be achieved prior to the release of the
second tranche; and (b) petroleum product prices would be adjusted as
necessary, prior to the release of the third tranche, to "intain economic
prices for all petroleum products. Phasing the kerosene price increase over
two tranches is considered necessary in view of its importance as a fuel for
low income consumers. Phasing the increases in the fuel-oil (for electricity)
pric' 2ver two tranches would not distort electricity price signals; only the
powe. jompanies would be affected, and electricity prices to end users would
be set at a level sufficient to cover the estimated LRMC.
54.   Vatural GaLs Pricng.  Jordan produces about 22 million cft/day of
natural gas, which is used to fael approximately 14X of all electric power
generation. In keeping with the environmental benefits and the relatively
lower production costs of natural gas, government policy is to price natural
gas lower than the price of the fuel-oil equivalent. Based on international
experience, and in consultation with international oil companies, a natural
gas price of about 85X of the fuel-oil border price is considered reasonable
to provide adequate incentives for the efficient production and use of natural
gas. The Government adjusted the price of natural gas (for electricity) in
June 1993 to cover 85X of the equivalent price of fuel-oil (for electricity),
which was increased on the same date.  Maintaining the natural gas price (for
electricity) at 85X of the price of the fuel-oil equivalent (for electricity),
in conformity with adjustments to the fuel-oil price, would be a condition for
the release of both the second and third tranches.
55.   gll and Gas Investment.  In the ratural gas subsector, development is
dependent on the size of recoverable gas reserves, about which there is
substantial uncertainty; even the extent of reserves in the existing field is
not known. An estimate of recoverable reserves made in January 1992 was 155
billion SCF, but this estimate will be subject to periodic revision until the
entire field is delineated. The Government has adopted an appropriate core
investment program (CIP) (1993-1995) for the oil and gas subsector that would
comprise essentially only the completion of long-term testing and the
evaluation of the existing gas field to delineate both the size and the rate
of sustainable natural gas production. Recent technologies would be applied
to enhance Risha gas production and firm up reserves. Following the
completion of this core program, a plan for natural gas utilization by the
power subsector would be updated.
InatXLftta l ReggM
56.   MnList=r of  negry and Mineral Resources (KEMR).  The 1990 Energy Sector
Study highlighted the need to reorganize MEMR to strengthen its focus on and
capabilities in policy formulation, strategic planning, energy conservation
and environmental protection, as well as to enable it to coordinate sector



- 19 -
development effectively.  The reorganization is essential for MM  to manage
and sustain the reform program over the long term. The restructuring study
(para. 43) will help to formulate a new miesion statement for MENR. It will
also evaluate alternative arrangements for strengthening the Ministry's
organizational and staffing capabilities for formulating comprehensive energy
policies and plans, preparing demand forecasts, monitoring compliance with
government policies and environmental aspects of energy operations, and
liaising with national environmental authorities. The study will include
recommendations for staffing needs and the proper skills mix. Assurances have
been obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the second tranche, the
Government would adopt an agreed action plan based on the recommendations of
the restructuring study to strengthen mechan'.sms for setting overall policy
and coordinating sector development; and (b) prior to the release of the third
tranche, satisfactory progress would be achieved in the implementation of the
agreed action plan. Such progress would include the submission to Parliament
of necessary changes in the legal framework of MEMR, and the implementation of
organizational and staffing improvements.
57. Power Subsector. The erosion of power sector finances and the
deterioration in autonomy due to the imposition of civil service regulations
on JEA led to proposals in the 1990 Energy Sector Study for a review of
options for restructuring the institutional and regulatory framework of the
power entities to improve their operating efficiency and financial
performance, to facilitate competition and to provide opportunities for
greater private sector participation and financing. Essential measures
include a commercial business approach to electricity supply, greater
management authority and independence from the Government in operational
decision-making, and greater accountability for performance by boards of
directors and management.
58. Being subject to civil service regulations, JEA has had limited autonomy
over its operations. Its ability to operate in accordance with fully
commercial practices has been constrained by the structure of its Board and
the influence of the public sector over its operations. Currently, JEA must
restore the long-term financial viability of its electricity supply
operations. To achieve this objective, one of the most important reforms
under the ESAL beyond the essential tariff increases needed in the short-term
would be the initiation of a process to establish JEA as a wholly government-
owned company under Jordanian company law. As a first step towards this
objective, the Government restored management autonomy to JEA in March 1993 to
free it from civil service regulations that undermined the autonomy of its
board and management, especially regarding staff salaries, staff appointments
and benefits, budgeting and procurement.
59. The institutional restructuring study provides for the preparation of an
action plan for corporatizing JEA as part of an overall action plan for power
subsector restructuring. Corporatization would help to preserve the
commercial reforms achieved through the ESAL and make it less likely that
future governments would revert to former policies. Providing JEA with
company status would also pave the way for possible future access to equity
markets and further reduce dependence on the Government for guaranteeing or



- 20 -
providing loan funds. This would, in turn, make JEA subject to discipline
Imposed by the capital markets. As a company, JRA would be subject to the
same duties and taxes as private companies. JEA would be put on a competitive
basis with private sector counterparts, including potential cogenerators and
private power producers. Corporatization would also lay the basis for more
rapid private sector participation in the power sector. Assurances have been
obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the second tranche, an agreed
action plan would be adopted for commercializing and corporatizing all of the
power entities, including JEA; and (b) prior to the release of the third
tranche, satisfactory progress in the implementation of the agreed action plan
would be achieved.
60. The restructuring study (para. 43) would also evaluate a number of
options for promoting competition within the power subsector and improving the
enabling environment for private sector participation, including
institutional, financial and regulatory aspects. Some of the institutional
options to be considered for expanding the participation of the private sector
and for creating a more competitive environment include the establishment of
new independent power generation and distribution companies and the sale or
divestiture of the JEA generation plant and/or distribution facilities.
Opportunities for contracting out services such as billing, meter reading and
plant maintenance on a competitive basis would also be asg3ssed. Assurances
have been obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the second tranche, an
agreed action plan would be adopted for establishing the enabling conditions
to allow private sector investment in power generation and distribution and
for increasing competition amoug power companies; and (b) prior to the release
of the third tranche, satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
agreed action plan would be achieved.
61. The RemuLatorg Pramework for the Power Subsector. Existing regulatory
arrangements have not worked satisfactorily, as indicated by tZe reluctance of
the Government to make appropriate tariff adjustments in recent years. No
major tariff increases have been implemented since 1984; however, some
modifications and adjustments to the tariff structure have been made.
Consumers' interests and complaints are not represented or addressed other
than directly through the power entities. JEA is not subject to any
substantive regulation by MENR, but it accepts directives from MNMR
essentially since it is a part of government. Since NEKR also lacks the
capacity to effectively regulate the two distribution companies, JEPCO and
IDECO, the regulatory role is filled primarily by JEA on behalf of the
Government. Thus, the two distribution companies are also unable to operate
at arm's length from the Government, or from JEA (their supplier of bulk
power), even though they have private sector participation.
62. The restructuring study (para. 43) would evaluate options for regulatory
reform taking into account recommendations for the restructuring of the power
subsector. There is a clear naed to separate the Government's role as owner
from that of regulator to ensure that the operating entities are held
accountable for performance and are able to operate at arm's length from the
Government. A clear, predictable and transparent mechanism is needed for
establishing prices independent from government. Operating performance and



- 21 -
reliability standards need to be developed and monitored. Proper arrangements
for the protection of consumer interests are needed. The study would
formulate proposals for establLshing a transparent regulatory framework
together with recommendations for: (a) a rate regulation mechanism; (b)
redefining the role of MEMR; (c) service and safety standards; and (d)
policies regarding rural electrification and private generation.
63.   Assurances have been obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the
second tranche, the Government would adopt an agreed action plan for
establishing a transparent regulatory framework to govern operations of the
power entitles, including the setting of tariffs; and (b) prior to the release
of the third tranche, satisfactory progress would be achieved in the
implementation of the agreed action plan.
64.   Oil and gas Subsea o.  NRA has commanded significant budgetary
resources and has experienced institutional weaknesses, including: a weak
organizational structure; a mix of regulatory functions and operational
responsibilities; inefficiencies stemming from applicable public sector rules
and regulations; and perhaps most importantly, only limited autonomy and an
Inadequate commercial focus. The Government has, therefore, decided to form a
commercial oil/gas company (Petro-Jordan) to take over NRA oil and gas
exploration and development operations. Revenues from the sale of Risha gas
should enable the company to become a financially viable entity.
65.   Consultants financed by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), are currently studying the modalities of establishment, including the
company's charter, capitalization (including joint venture and private sector
participation possibilities), and organizational structure. The study would
also assess whether changes in existing legislation would be necessary for
setting up the company.  The Government's intent is to establish the company
by May 1994; i.e., prior to second tranche release. However, should changes
in legislation requiring Parliamentary approval be required, the establishment
of the company could take longer. Therefore, assurances have been obtained
that the company would be established prior to the release of the second
tranche unless Parliamentary approvals, if required, necessitate a delay. In
the latter case, the Government would seek agreement with the Bank on a
revised timetable.
66.   The formation of a new oil/gas company would help to address the
organizational weaknesses in NRA only partially. The Government therefore
intends to reorganize NRA's remaining activities to enable it to monitor oil
and gas operations and carry out its other functions, including geological
surveys and geophysical and geochemical work, more efficiently and
effectively. The restructuring study (para. 43) would prepare an action plan
for reorganizing the remaining activities of NRA. Assurances have been
obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the second tranche, an agreed
action plan would be adopted for the reorganization of NRA; and (b) prior to
the release of the third tranche, satisfactory progress in the implementation
of the agreed action plan would be achieved.



- 22 -
Eic,ronmenta1 Protection Reforms
67.   The Government has expressed its commitment in the Letter of Sector
Policy to strengthen environmental protection in energy operations to
generally accepted standards. It has recently established an environmental
unit in MEMR to coordinate all energy sector activities with the national
environmental authority, currently DOE, and with other government agencies to
ensure compliance with existing environmental guidellnes and regulations. The
mandate of the new unit in MENR is to interpret codes, practices and
regulations in consultation with the national environmental authority and to
develop operatlng and administrative procedures to ensure compliance with the
regulations. It would also plan and carry out necessary surveys, data
collection and monitoring activities to define existlng baseline environmental
conditions; prepare environmental impact assessments; advise/instruct, dlrect,
assist and train personnel in the operating units to comply with environmental
law and regulations; conduct regular environmental audits of operating units;
develop and conduct public awareness and action programs on energy
conservation; md compile and maintain a data bank on sector operations,
environmental actions and compliance. It would be expected to carry out
regular audits of energy sector entities to continually monitor operations and
strive for compliance with environmental regulations.
68.   NEMR has initiated a program, to be carried out by the new environmental
unit, to prepare detailed guidelines and codes for environmental protection in
energy operations, including oil and gas operations and the power subsector.
Assurances have been obtained that satisfactory progress would be achieved
prior to the release of the second tranche, in preparing and enacting
environmental guidelines/regulations.
69.   Assurances have also been obtained that: (a) prior to the release of the
second tranche, the Government would also designate and empower a competent
environmental authority at the national level to develop, monitor and enforce
environmental regulations; and (b) prior to the release of the third tranche,
satisfactory progress would be achieved in the implementation and enforcement
of environmental guidelines/regulations. Progress in ensuring compliance with
environmental regulations would be indicated, in part, by environmental audit
reports. In the power sector, regulatory processes would take into account
environmental impacts and conservation options for proposed projects and
policies. The least-cost power subsector investment plan would reflect the
environmental consequences of the range of choices available.
Energy Conservation Reforms
70.   The pricing reforms under the ESAL would have a major beneficial impact
on energy demand and conservation efforts by providing incentives to end users
to minimize energy waste and choose fuels on the basis of their cost to the
economy. However, other measures would also be taken to achieve potential
savings of the magnitude identified by the energy audits completed by MEMR, as
well as to improve electricity demand management and power system performance.
The Government has, therefore, prepared proposals and adopted an agreed action
plan for improving energy conservation. Assurances have been obtained that,



- 23 -
prior to the releases of the second and third tranches, the relevrant measures
included in the agreed action plan for energy conservation would be
implemented.
71. Institutional measures would be implemented to promote end-use
conservation. MENR's conservation department, in particular, would be
strengthened to play a coordinating role among energy sector instltutions; to
prepare training programs; to monitor energy conservation activities; to
follow-up on energy audits, conservation studies and other research to achieve
the indicated energy savings; and to disseminate information through its
established information/advisory centers. These measures would supplement
pricing reforms, and thelr financial cost would generally be low relative to
the anticipated benefits. Improvements in the regulatory framework would also
be implemented to ensure that energy efficiency issues are addressed in the
deslgn of maJor new industries. Consideration would be given to tax and other
incentives for the private sector to enhance energy conservation.
72.  Neasures would also be implemented in the power subsector to improve
electricity demand side management. Tariff levels for all consumer classes
would be adjusted to reflect estimated costs of supply (LRMC), except possibly
for Olifelinen rates for low income consumers. JEA periodically reviews the
electricity tariff structure. Assurances have been obtained that an update of
the JIA electricity tariff design study would be carried out by January 1994
and its recommendatLons implemented prior to the release of the second
tranche. The study would assess, inter alia, the potential benefits and costs
of: (a) maintaining the lifeline' tariffs; (b) enhanclng the progressivity of
tariff blocks for residential consumers; and (c) introducing time-of-use
tariffs for large domestic and commerclal consumers and for agriculture and
water pumping, to shift consumption to off-peak periods; discounted
interruptible tariffs for large industrial and commercial consumers; and
demand charges for commercial and small industrial consumers.
73.   On the supply side, while substantial improvements have been achieved in
the past few years, there is still potential for further increasing the
efficiency of electricity generation, transmission and distribution to achieve
energy savings. The power companies have, therefore, set efficiency targets,
prepared action plans to achieve these targets, and incorporated monitorable
indicators of operational efficiency in planning and information systems.
They have adopted a least cost power system expansion program that takes
account of additional load management and energy conservation measures for
reducing peak load and energy generation requirements. Load management
measures have the potential of substantial savings by reducing the
requirements for spinning reserves, by exploiting opportunities for waste heat
recovery and by improving the system load factor, thereby enabling investments
in new capacity to be deferred.



- 24 -
PARY_NL_LRA
loan Amount. Cof uianma and Tranchina
74.   It is recommended that the proposed loan of US$80 million equivalent to
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan would be disbursed in three tranches of US$40
million, US$20 million, and US$20 million, respectively. The first tranche
would be available upon loan effectiveness, envisaged by December 1, 1993.
The second and third tranches would be made available upon fulfillment of
second and third tranche release conditions, expected about May 1994 and May
1995, respectively. Cofinancing is being sought. At the recent CG meeting,
the Government of Japan expressed an interest in the operation and is now
considering proposed cofinancing of about US$80 million equivalent. The
proposed ESAL constitutes an integral part of the financing plan for the
balance of payments (para. 13).
Implementation and Nonitorin
75.  The Government has established an ESAL Iplementation Team with an
appropriate operating framework. The team, which would report to the Hinister
of Planning, comprises senior officials of the Ministries of Planning, Energy
and Mineral Resources, and Finance; CBJ; and the power entities. The Ministry
of Planning would have overall responsibility for managing and coordinating
project implementation. The Bank would monitor implementation through regular
supervision and consultations with concerned authorities and through
systematic reporting requirements. The completion of the sectoral components
of the operation could be expected within about two years of loan signing.
The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish.
Procurement. Disbursement and Audit eBrrotL=g
76.  ProcuAement.  The proposed loan of US$80 million equivalent would be
used to finance the CIF cost of eligible import of goods and services by the
public and private sectors, subject to the standard negative list of
ineligible items, such as arms and luxury products. A negative list is
recommended because of the need for quick disbursements to meet balance of
payments requirements and the relatively small amount of funds currently
required by the energy sector. Withdrawals in respect of expenditures o-
account of payments for petroleum products would not exceed US$16.0 million
equivalent. Counterpart funds generated from the sale of foreign exchange by
the Government would not be earmarked but would be available for general
budget support.
77.  FPocurement would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines and would be limited to the Bank's member countries,
and Taiwan, China. For public and private sector contracts estimated to cost
US$5.0 million equivalent or more, procurement would follow simplified
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Procurement by the public
sector of imports costing below US$5.0 million equivalent would be made in
accordance with the Borrower's public sector procurement procedures which are



- 25 -
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement by the private sector of imports costing
under US$5.0 million equivalent would be awarded on the basis of the
established comercial practices of the purchaser provided that, to the extent
possible, such contracts would be awarded on the basis of at least two
quotations, except for direct contracting approved by the Bank. Consultants'
services financed from the proceeds of the loan would be engaged in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines for the selection of consultants. Retroactive
financing of up to US$16.0 million equivalent (20X of the adjustment loan) is
recommended for eligible imports made before the date of the Loan Agreement,
but after July 1, 1993.
78.  .DJbnUUiEAt. The disbursement of each tranche would be made on the
basis of 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports. The
Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) would be responsible for the administration of
the loan, including the collection of relevant documentation and the
submission of the related withdrawal applications, and such documentation and
information as the Bank may reasonably request to support the withdrawal of
funds from the loan account. Disbursement against contracts, valued at US$2.0
million equivalent or less, would be made on the basis of a Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) to be submitted by CBJ, with the detailed documentation
retained by CBJ for review by the Bank during loan supervision. Full
documentation would be required for the approval of individual contracts
exceeding US$2.0 million equivalent. CMJ would carry out the screening
process to ensure that all procurement conditions have been met. Applications
for withdrawals would be consolidated and submitted in amounts of not less
than US$1.0 million equivalent. Expenditures for contracts valued at less
than US$10,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the loan.
In order to facilitate disbursement, a Special Account with an initial deposit
of US$10 million would be established at CBJ under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
79. Audit Renortina. Audits of the supporting documentation for the related
accounts and SOEs used for disbursement would be carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report of the related accounts and
SOEs would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close
of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Loan Conditions
80. In recent months, the Government has implemented a number of key policy
measures at the macroeconomic and sector levels, including the introduction of
consumption taxes and increases in energy prices. Technical and financial
proposals have been received from consultants for carrying out the
restructuring study (para. 43) which would lay the groundwork for the
institutional reforms, and the associated action plans that would be agreed
prior to the release of the second tranche.
81. The conditions for the release of the second and third tranches are
summarized in Tables 2 and 3, respectively. The conditionality encompasses:
(a) The macroeconomic framework (para. 45);



-26-
.  .-   g   |  |=           _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -I.X B
*(b) Energy pricing: electricity, petroleum products and natural gas (paras.
50, 53 and 54);
(c) The investment programs for the power subsector and the oil and gas
subsector (paras. 51 and 55);
(d) The reorganization and strengthening of MEMR (para. 56);
(e) The restructuring of the power subsector and the regulatory framework
(paras. 59, 60 and 63);
(f) The establisbment of an oil/gas company and the reorganization of NRA's
remaining activities (paras. 65 and 66);
(g) The establishment of envirormental institutions and the implementation
snd enforcement of environmental guidelines and regulations (paras, 68
and 69); and.
(h) The implementation of energy conservation measures (paras. 70 to 73).



-27-
1wH~~~~~~~~~~0
111eosc  WL 
82.~ ~ ~ ~         W Prtctn  thMordrn   duteti      ihpirt   o   h
Government.  Si~~~~ncl9QthGoenethsmitieaneftveoil
saey e,whs   ricpl  ntumnsinlds:cs  taser   oai   h
publi Poexpniuesbnfting the poor duigajstmen  is services piorityfr theat
care and education have been adequately funded in the budget, and delivery of
these services is effective and efficient. In the energy sector, p,rograms
benefiting the rural poor has been encouraged; for example, a "Ruratl Fils
Program" mohilizes funds by the nationwide charging of one fil per 1,Vh
consumed, to finance rural electrification.
83.   The Government is also implementing other measures intended to protect
the poor during adjustment. Electricity tariffs for residential consumers are
currently differentiated to allow for 'lifeline" rates for low income
consumers, although the electricity tariff design study (para. 72) will review
the benefits and costs of the lifeline rates. The tariff study will also
assess, inter alia, whether the residential tariff blocks should be adjusted
to require larger consumers to bear a greater share of the costs of supply.



- 28 -
84. The Government is also concerned about the potentially adverse Impact of
the proposed kerosene price Increases on the poor. Kerosene is consumed by
both household and industrial/commercial users. Among the household users,
the majority are low-income groups in the rural area. Thus, raising domestic
kerosene prices to economic prices would entail efficiency gains by requiring
the commercial and industrial users to pay the full economic costs, while for
average household consumers, their expense on kerosene as a share of total
spending would have to rise from an estimate of 1.6S to 2.3X. In view of the
importance of kerosene as a fuel for low income consumers, the adjustment of
the domestic price to the economic price is being phased over two tranches
under the ESAL. In addition, the Government is considering the implementation
of other transitory measures, such as a coupon scheme. In the Letter of
Sector Policy, the Government has stated that its policy is to use non-pricing
measures wherever possible to help alleviate the adverse effects of price
adjustments on the poor.
Benfits and Risks
85.   Beefits.  The ESAL would complement and deepen the Government's ongoing
adjustment program in several important ways. It would help to ensure that
energy sector enterprises contribute to economic development with a maximum
degree of autonomy and financial self-sufficiency, and at the least cost to
the economy.  It would contribute to reducing the fiscal imbalance,
particularly through the adjustment of petroleum and electricity prices. The
increases in electricity prices would help to alleviate the heavy burden the
power entities place on the government budget by restoring their financial
viability sufficiently to enable them to service their large debts. The ESAL
would also provide the quick disbursements needed to meet Jordan's balance of
payments requirements. Over the longer term, the anticipated improvements in
operational efficiencies through the commercialization and corporatization of
the power entities, together with improvements in investment rationalization,
energy conservation and opening the sector to greater participation by private
capital, would further reduce public expenditures and enhance the country's
balance of payments position. Overall, the reforms under the ESAL would help
to remove price distortions while reducing inflation through improved resource
efficiency.
86.   In the power subsector, the restructuring of the power entities and the
regulatory framework would lead to more effective and efficient management of
the sector and pave the way for the continued development and expansion of the
power system. The improvements in the enabling environment that would allow
private sector investment and substantial autonomy and freedom from government
intervention, but with accountability for performance, would promote
competitive pricing and competitive behavior. In the oil and gas subsector,
the establishment of a new company under Jordanian company law would put
exploration and development activities on a commercial basis and help to
attract higher levels of risk capital, while allowing NRA to focus on
noncommercial but essential supporting activities. The ESAL would also play a
major role in safeguarding and enhancing environmental quality through
improvements to the institutional and regulatory framework.



- 29 -
87.   Flal  ZMt. Overall, the fiscal impact of the operation is
tentatively estimated to average about 1.5-2.0X of GDP annually over the
period 1993-96. WLthLn this estimate, the incremental revenue accruing to the
government budget from the proposed petroleum product and natural gas pricing
adjustments would total an estimated JD 70 million (about US$105 million
equivalent), or about 0.6X of GDP. In addition, substantial diract and
indirect benefits would also accrue from power subsector reforms. Electricity
tariff increases, for example, would significantly raise the power entities'
self-financing ratios and, thus, have a direct bearing on reducing the costs
to the budget arising from debt relief and appropriations for investment.
Potentially, the power subsector reforms could reduce the burden of the power
subsector on government resources3 over the period 1993-96 by upwards of JD
200 million (about US$300 million equivalent). Additional budgetary savings
and balance of payments benefits would be achieved through demand-induced
reductions in fuel import needs and investment requirements.
88.  &Lak.  The primary risk is that social and political opposition may
weaken the Government's resolve to fulfill its commltments under the
macroeconomic adjustment program and, thus, compromise the implementation of
the ESAL. A failure to maintain macroeconomic stability could jeopardize the
success of the ESAL. Thus, the maintenance of a sound, medium-term
macroeconomic framework supported by an appropriate external financing plan
would be a conditlon for each tranche release. Given the many reform measures
bLeing taken at both the macroeconomic and sectoral levels, the tolerance in
Jordanian soclety for further sacriflce is becoming increasingly constrained.
However, this risk would be lessened by the measures incorporated in the ESAL
to mitigate the effects of the reform measures on the most vulnerable segments
of society. In addition, the Government is firmly committed to the reform
process, as evidenced by the recent implementation of politically difficult
measures, such as the introduction of consumption taxes and the significant
increases in energy prices in June 1993. The benefits of reform in
maintaining financial stability and restoring growth have substantially
reduced the risks envisaged in late 1989 when the dialogue on the proposed
operation was initiated. Also, the Government's previous experience of
successfully implementing bold and comprehensive reforms under the ITPAL
augurs well for the ESAL.
89. There is, as well, a risk that opposition could mount from within the
Government, civil servlce and concerned agencies to the institutioral and
regulatory restructurlng reforms under the ESAL. This risk is minimized by
the three-tranche design of the ESAL, which would enhance the Bank's ability
to monitor and help guLde the implementation of the reform program over a
sufficient length of time to help reduce the possibility of policy reversals.
In the for= of buetary ttz8em, govemet loae or govement guarantees for borrowig by the
pwM, :CM*= 498.



- 30 -
PoYs VI - RECONMKNDATIO3
90.   I am satisfled that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and reco_mend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Lawi8 T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 14, 1993



-31 -
ANNEX I
Jouau - InCmMC sU:ICTMs                                   Page  1 of 3
UidId.1 POPohAtIGN lult) I Of      2.7
199 Pe capita  SIPn VESt          1060
A. Mhaps of Gre os  matic Prodwat        D. Growth Rates (I per amvm)
( rem eurrant price dats)             (Vim amutant price date)
19go    19I10           99 19   19929 19-06   198 18                 90 19   19929
&mas Dmonate Prodao  m.p.        100.0  1400.0  100.0  100'.0  100.   100.0    5.3   :0.'  -13.5    1.7    1.8   11.3
Rot indirec Tame                12.6   12.0   15.3   11.2   12.9   14.6   23.5   12.4    9.7   25.1    2.2   V7.
Sp at Faste cut                 87.4   88.0   84.7   83.  087.1   85.4    4.2   .1.6  -15.8   -1.6    1.7    8.7
LurisAtmar                       5.5    4.3    5.9    5.7    6.3    6.3   -3.4   20.9  -19.2   32.1  -13.4   10.0
ln*A"                 ~~~~20.4   23.?   21.0   24.4   23.6   23.5    3.3   -8.2    8.6   -0.6   -3.6   11.4
(of- 1tiutd Nuuuta estr)        11.2   10.4    9.9   10.9   12.    13.1    0.6  -19.1   24.0    9.6   .2.5   14.3
sarvin                          56.5   60.0   57.8   58.7   57.2   55.7    5.0   .1.1  -22.7   -5.3    6.0    7.5
Resimourc bsu                    44.4  *39.0  .29.8  -28.1  -398   .49.5   48.6   -6.1  -13.6   63.3  -10.1   38.3
Saparts of SGM                  36.1  3V.2   31.2   49.4   43.0   43.0   -3.5   28.8    5.6    2.3  -11.31  11.2
ig,,s of Mfg                   30.5   76.3   61.0   77.4   83.9   92.4   -6.3   11.7   -2.2   24.4  -11.0   2432
Toutl expsAuuit                  144.   139.   12.8  128.1  139.6  149.5    1.5   -1.8  -13.5   15.2   -1.9   19.0
Touta Censatn                  110.3  117.4  104.6  102.2  115.8  117.0    4.5   -2.5  -13.7   15.7    1.3   13.3
privet CnsAItis,              84.    90.A   77.7   15.1   89.2   94.2    3.8   -3.4  .13.0   22.3   -0.4   17.5
Osusal GOArMPINnt             26.1   26.8   26.9   26.4   26.6   23.7    5.9    0.0  -15.6   -3.0    7.5   .0.9
Sees Msmtic Iwmostu             34.1   21.7   25.2  25.9   26.0   31.6  -10.1    1.4  -12.9   13.2  -15.0   4.6
Fixed hwsswtmet               31.1   19.6   21.7   23.5   21.9   29.8   -9.9    5.3  -11.3   14.6  -15.8   51.A
*A*"e in ftedsa                3.0    2.1    3.5    2.4    LI1   1.8          --      .       .       ..      .     -
armees.goutle Revine             -10.3  .17.4   -4.6   -2.2  -15.8  -17.8   -4.1  -47.3  -21.3  644.6   .1.3   85.6
Mst Faser inesm                  0.9   -1.8   -3.5   -9.4   -6.9   .7.0         .. 48.6   58.0   10.5  -11.6  .12.S
Net owrent Tranafar             35.4   31.8   21.0   20.4   14.1   25.5   .4.0    7.5    8.5  -22.6  -33.8  101.6
Gres. Notioalt Saving             26.0   12.6   12.9   16.8  -10.6    0.6   -9.2   16.0   -3.7  *129.9  119.9  -106.6
in oftios of LOA                1985   19M    198    1989   1991  1992p  19M-86  1988   1989   1990   1991  1992p
(at emutuit 198 priess)-..                    .. ..          .. ..          ........               .. ..           ..  -
growssessti. Proda              225    2045   270    233    2412   268         5.3   -0.5  -13.5    1.7    1.5   11.3
Cipesty to Ipot                  815    912    845   1150   1038   1154   -3.5   28.8    5.6    2.3  .11.8   11.2
TM=omsf Trao Adstumt               0       0      0       0      -0     0a       .      .
ues Domatie momn                225    2450   27?   233    2412   268          5.3   .0.5  -13.5    1.7'    1.8&   11.3
grosw Notionl Product           2219   2406   2614   2110   2198   2498    4.2   -2.2  -17.4    0.8    3.3   13.6
&ros Natioalt Inco              2279   2406   2614   2110   2198   2498    4.2   -2.2  -17.4    0.8    3.3   13.6
(198---- 9itolo).....00............inf Lotion Raten----------
C. Price hlls.                     98    1986   198    1990  Im9p 1930-88  1986   198    1989   1990   1991  1992p
  ... ...........            ..         ..  ..          .. ..       ...     ..    ..       ..     ..      ..     ..
gums.? Prices (1989.100)          57.5   74.7   79.5  116.1  130.4    4.1    0.0    6.6   23.8   16.1    8.2    3.8
mwwi lAsleato Prices (1989.100)  54.2   67.7   74.8  114.4  126.1    3.6   -0.3    9.3   33.8   1e..4    5.1    4.8
taplieft OPP Deflastor              .. 88.1   82.3  110.2  121.3    2.3b  -0.4    3.1   21.5   10.2    4.5    3.3
lapliolt Empeditura Bef i.          ..     0.1   82.3  110.2  121.3   -0.Sb  -0.4    3.1   21.5   10.2    4.5    5.3
S. Other 10111cators:           1965-73 1980.89  198    193    1991  19929
..-.......................................
Smitwh RatesCZ p.S.):                                                                          ots
PoplAstion                       3.0    3.8    3.7    3.7   11.8    4.2
Law orfre                        4.0    4.4      --   -.         . .                      G/e/ast sant.
Br  ott. Ut  Ios P..              .     -1.5   -2.2  -20.3   -7.6    9.0                  b/ 1983-1988
Privete cemmmtion P.C.            ..    0.9   -5.4  -16.1  -10.9   12.7                    p/ Preliminary.
a/ Estinatod.
oport Uitasticity:
Sports (OMP) I M9(GP)             .       .     4.0    0.2   -6.2    2.1
"Nargiemi  Raigs  em:
Ores National saving              ..      -      2.5    0.0   -2.0    0.9
arm osSmutis $avIg                .             1.2   -0.0    0.1   -0.4
fewl (period average):              .   29.9b    8.3   -1.9   16.2    2.1
share of Totat                    1963   1980   1989   1991
Labor Pamc In:
Agricultttre                    36.6  '10'.2    7.2    7.4
inkstry                         25.9   25.6   21.5   21.4
ge,vfco                         37.    64.2   71.3   71.2
lowa                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
...............                ................................................
IIRO06/15/93



- 32 -
ANEX I
Page 2 of 3
J0M - uwrn: tIUICATOS
~~~~~~~~~~~~........ . ...........
Voe.. iMex 1                  Value at Current Pricee (dlif es    )/
~~~~~~%...............         ..... ....... ... .... ......   ......   ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .    
E. Mechnds  Eapet  (P)               1985      987    1989    19W1   1992p    195    198        197    1989    1900    1991   1992
nopat                                72.4    87'.6   100.0    "4.1    66.4      168      15      180      5       2       181      180
Ptt                                  4.7    99.5  tC0.0   100.2    97.5          79      g0       83     124      13      162      I
Fertilizers                          64.7    73.6  '100.0   11.6   102.8         78      83       8o     120      120     IV      lo?
Pnlte & Ygmte                       106.8  l15.3   100.0   156.8   153.9         61      63       19      57       67      so      74
Chaicalets & Ummfatwa                97.0    92.3   100.0    86.5   105.7       263     224      324     374      393     349     45
o-Ee6pont                           108.0   11t.2   100.0   130.3   141.9       141     8a       198     180      141     253 
Toutl baW         of SeaStPo)        86.8    95.2   100.0    97.0   103.8       789     732      933    1110    1l0   1132    122
F. Nerehewi   Iports
...............................
ttd                                 119.7   141.2   100.0   184.9   203.2       481     519      50?     400      657     "a2  68
PetroeA & Preaotet                   83.2   105.2   100.0    97.6   101.4       56      333      41      415      470     430     466
Ceiacts                              94.2   113.0   100.0   1U.5   127.8    171         214      2t1     251      287     321     361
Iaw  ateriate                       14.8   191.6   100.0   135.5   106.9         84      82      103      76       65      8a      67
mofsto                              140.4   114.6   100.0    81.6   130.7    122        1135    1292    1201    1232    1058    1I7
Othr                                396.7   109.6   100.0    17.S    20.1    198        146       71      49       39      13       16
Tot lupot of SeaSt (CCt)            130.4   119.?   100.0   105.2   133.S    2718    2422    2236    29          23      2571    3339
G. No ciW  to Tea  of trade          196     18       19       991   1992p
...... .......... ...... .........   ......  ........ ......  ........ ......
odr.           Price Indsm           81.9    08.3   100.0   105.2   105.9             nlote 
aeth. taper   Price Inde             86.6    93.?   100.0   101.3   103.7             a/ Date in trdo  accot cailed by the
March. Teo   of Trade                94.6    94.3   100.0   103.8   102.1                geprtant Of tstettie  cmy Mat bW
consistent wIth thfose In the baet.
Y8   llioen at ecurrti prices                 of pflmta  provided by the Cntral
.......................................              of Jordan.
v. lotence of Pen                    1980    1        1988    1990    19    1992p   b/ i luds resedated debt eovcza  of
...............................      ....    ....    ....         ..... ...... ....      SW  ot..  - -22 .610 Mt.  end        tl. In
txut of SeeS A,                      1572   o160      2431    2513    2415    2667        1989-91. respetively.
Nercheiso (9t08)                    17       732    1016    1065    1132    1220   C/ Include,  Ot private LT diaburomt
onlt    ser vice                    997    1072    141      18    13n        144?       of -519 sit. wd 59 oil. In 198940.
respectively.
law        of Gea  on                3226    335R   3764    3715    3408    4293   di Includes GCcC5 grnt    leto   . trsfer
Necdmdise       )                  2398    242    2716    2732    2571    333           of worr   savinp   t fr    I mee, Sa
f    eor   Svces                    82       903    1048     983      87      954       chag  In overdA   btigatlen in 1989-91.
Reource Salonso                     -1654   -11   .1333 11202    -923   -1626
:-t PstO  Inst_                       l19    .141    -308   -40        -363     335
(intert pe 0II)                     79     115    239       461     450      434
N3t Prive Cur*t Tramfes               594      9115   8s       458      410     872
,lekwr Anittane  RceIpt)            715    1184      894    So       450     800
Curr A/C  et Sefere Off. S1unt       *940    -677   -83    -114?    .876   -1089
let Offiefel trmfos                1311     633      550     393      16      348
Curr A/C let After Off. Gra           37       -      -288    -?54    -712    -741
LoWTem Capitat Inf too                104      148      88    -363    -64S    -292
Direct Inweotmot                     27       23       0       0        0       0
Ibt LT Lam  (000 dot) b/            266      621      63    -432    -671    -337
Othr LT infle t(ot)/ e110    496                      25      69       26      45
Tot alt     JIm  (ntet)              -172       31    -287    8"       2361      70
Iat lht    TO mcepiwt                 4       -2       0        0       0       0
Cpitt PImA 3.1. d                     0        0      28     616    1989      -32
Error an  Oiesir                   -175       35    -315     243      372     102
Chae  in Mlt 1evs                    -307    -13S      487    -354   -1101      -39
Not Crsdit frothe l                   5        0       0      -12      -7       12
Other Reserves Chanes              -312    -135      487    -342   -1094      -51
Rtg eb  /estanciwtea                    4       -2       0      610      98    1149
As 11he of oPt
Resource Balaneo                    -50      -25     -22      -31     -23     -34
lnterestP&Vnh"                        2        3       4       12      11       9
C0UAL (Cbfore off thf)              -23      -11     .14      -29     .21     -23
nomw     o  ItUM:
Reserv   eatc. Sold W1. 111)         1143      43      110      849     826      767
Itsorves     in. Sid (oil. US1)     173       82ON    434    1138    1112    1038
Official X-iate (OiS)              0.2980  0.3500  0.3715  0.6636  0.6807  0.6798
Index Real 3ff. xi19 awe 190        100.0   101.6    79.5    59.6    60.9    59.4
SP (mi fa  Of   rant   8)            3304    6042    591    39         408     4791
...............................  ................................................................................................



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
S_m * ucmc aIpIUm
.....................................................                    .......................
UP (I)                               O~~~~~~resth Rates MI
........., ......................................   ... .... ....... ....... ............................................ ......   ...... ....... ....... ....... ....... ..... .
gcvarvmt FSinac                     196     1956    19      199    1991   199p    1W11   1915    199    1990    1991   1993p
c wrev Rcipt         I              n.0    34.3    344    33.1   29.0   353           6.2     2.3     4.0    30.0     9.6    4.8
wrot hJ itUr                        34.1    .6      3.9   40.7   43.0   33.8    3.1    13.7    0.1    26.3    10.0   -5.9
currmt Su1     uatweo              -11.3    -.3  -13.6   -12.5  -13.1         1.5
Capital Recepts                                                                        ..      ..      ..      .
i pt om tuo                         20:.7    114    10.6    6.t       4.7     5.5 U; 13.1 i    . i    9*    *339       *.    36.3
OaIt Deficit                       -31.6   -13.7  -24.0  -16.7   -17.8   -4.0
Official Capital Grt                31.3     9.      8.8    11Mt    8.9       7.0      ..   14.5      6.3    *4.1   *15.1   *8.2
Etrnt    loraulag (nt)               6.9     4.1     3J      8.1      0.9    2.1   46.4   913.7   32.4   1323    *8.6   13.1
* emai Uort-Ounk slenriA            -0.5    -0.7     o.o      0.6     1.1     4.4   31.1   92.1  -880.0  .2          43.   411.9
_Dtic 8* P inmaing                   3.4     1.2    1.J   -4.7    -3.3   -4.6   -23.2   .7.9  -91.9  -480.6  -2.0   65.6
.................................................................................................................................
ote Diauenant CS million) af             Debt utatanWins & Disbursed CS miltlIo) s/
J. 8xtel Capital fl* t *-.
Debt e n tRati                  190    166    19         1990    191    t992p    190    18    198 9 1990    1991  I993p
Plc & P ielty Ow. LT bt              3       733    320    4632    331    -34    148    549    6364    r14           79    7343
Official Credits                   37      16       -7       99     406     110   1210       37   3560   434       4716    4876
uiltileateal                      53      a       49      13      -1a      83     159     743     78      943     930    1026
of, bil IMRO                    2       46     23      7n       *14      n       26     414     412     516     511    5
of hiu   IDA                     9      -1      -1      -1       -1      -1      74      79      76      77      76       75
sietoral                         330      99      -76     196    415       V7   1052   3094   238        3301    381      330
Private Creditwo                    -0    s5        247     163     -74    -144       6    232    379      3900      11    367
sawplfs                           18     .13       15      34      *4    -16       54      71      a       8        s 0     4
Financial  uakbt                 -31     347      149             -71   -161      306    1509    1454    1428    13       1t77
othe Prlv                          7     214      a       16        1      53      16   106      137      1316    1373    143
PrlveteinN-guwttd                      a       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       a
Tot LI ./ c6                                 7       33       463     334    -34    1486   549   634         7144    7M5    153
SW Credit                              0       0     -29      -10      .6      13       0      48     100      69        0       0
Not Uxot-T       p                     .       ....    .. ....                 ..    46       316       0        0       0       0
Tt o    rt . in1INF & not            37      730      1       453     3              1971   5W       6t      7        76      743
Bau*  i IDA Ratios                 10    16    196          199     19    Im9p
...................                 .............. ..... ....    ..... ....    ..... .... .. ......... ..
are of Touta L      rTOM 000                                                              latest
1. ImD as X of Toutal                1.      6.5     7.5      7.2     6.8     7.7
2. IDA as I of Totl                  5.1      1.9     1.4     1.1     1.0     1.0             External debt data ero dbtined fro
3. I8IIIIDA  s X of Total            6.8     64       9.0     6J      7.6     J.7           IhIs.  They my difffer frm SW dat
bi Exctuing principat arres.
Sha  of LT Odt Sevice                                                                    ec  Including principa  arras.
1. I83D a X of Tot                  0.4     6.2     8.4   17.2    16.?       9.0         ps preliminary
2, IOA     I of Total                0.4     0.3      0.2     0.4     0.4     0.2
3. ZM#IDA as I of Total              0.6     6.4      6.6   17.6   17.0       9.2
000-to-Exports Rtio
.....................
1. LonTerOm   ebt/ot                59.    139.5   163.4   .0  348.2  210.7
2. WV CroditAlVm t                   0.0     L.       1.4     d.9     0.0     0.0
3. Sot-Tem  Deb/mats                19.5    3L.       9.4     0.0     0.0     0.0
4. LT.tIlT 000/ImpI                79.0   173.7  1A.2    4.9   3  ..2  210.7
00-to-GOP Ratios
.................
1. Lon-TeOm De/P                    45.0    71.    92.1  1101.5  18.4  157.4
2. UD  Credit/U                      0.0      1.3     0.8     33      0.0     0.0
3. Shrt-Tem Deb/P                   14.7    16.3      5.3     0.0     0.0     0.0
4. LIINF*eT 00/UDP                  59.7    3.4    96.3   163.7  165.6  157.4
Debt Sari so /Import
..... .......  0...
1. PiAfe S  wSuenod LT               7.3    9.O   27.4   16.8   19.    30.0
2. PrIvate Nca-guraeted LT           0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
3. Tout Lang-Term Debt Serviee       7j      19.0     7.4   16.8    19.1    30.0
4.  tF   _r.  aw.                    0.0      0.1     1.0     0.6     0.5     0.8
S. Interest only an St Dtbt          2.3      3.1     3.0   0*        0.0     0.0
6. Total (LT.IN4T lMt.)              9.5    21.3   31.4    17.8   19.6   30.9
...............................  ..............................................................................................
MM 0 6/1SM9



(3 of U1P, eualoe Othrws feIctted
................................................................................. .......... ........................................................................................................,,,, .,.. ,. .
Jt  Actual Actut A trllo.                                            Projected
._.. ...... ...... ..... ........................................ .  ... ...... . ......... .
196    1990   191       99    195    1994   1995   199%   1997  1"9s   1999   am0    16               2366   an0   2001   US
~~~~... i ....... ........           . ...... 29...................... ,   , .... ,--23   I ---      ,, ---   ,, ----------   -  -  -  - -.....,.,....,,.,,,,, ,,,,,,........................ , ..,,o ,.. .,...._,^ .,
Ke erftus   argets (2                -17.2  49.1  -214   -22.7
639ofw r  thot                     -13.s     1.7    1.8   11.3    6.0    5.5    5.8    6.0    6.2    6.5    5.2    S.2    5.2    5.2    5.2    5.2    5.2
MP Deftota  (.a  U uuwe)            21 .5   10.3    4.5    5.3    5.0    4.5    4.5    43           4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    3.8    3A         3.8    3.8    3.8
Cuml   Anomt OatoI  im  If          -2.6   -9.1  -17.4  -15.5  *1A    -9A    -             -4.    -2.3    1.7    0A    0CA         O      0.3   - 0.7    0.?  t.
*WTGO A0MAt Batormeo MP t          -0.4  -26.3   -3.6  -1.J  .13.3   -5.9  -12.5    -s    5.9    -.r   -2                 -2.r   -2.8   -2.4   -1.9    1a    -1.
6ra.  of  6mt of on tP,a)  11.5    1.2   -3.1    2.9    4.0    7.2    8.8    6.5    6.7    6.3    5.2    5.2    5.I    5.2    5.2    S.2    S.2
rwAh of Impat. of Ws (3i39.)   -5.5          8    -10.1   2O.7   -4.7    3.4    3.0    2.0    2.7    3.0    4.7    4.7    4.9    4.9    5.2    5.2    5.2
twmsmetSmantsawev ud banmi   letlo  (1
fuwet.mt/U                          258    28.6    3.0   31.6   22.9   21.2   20.4   2.0    1.6    1.5   19.5   19.5   19.5   19.5   tP1    19.    ".J.
Priwet tuweatmP                   17.4   22.7   18.0   25.6   15.2    3.2   12.4    2.0   11.6   1.J   *11              11.5   11.5   11S    11.S   11.    11.5
fthc lg     tmnt/U                 0.4    6.1    6.0    6.0    7.3    8.0                 6.0    8.0    8.0              3.0     8.0L    8.0    8.0 8.0          . S0
get E*ots of  t/0?                 *21.6  -2.4  -20.2  -30.   -2.4  -21.2  -17.9  .15.0  -12.6  -10.   -10.2   -9.9   -9.8   -9.6   -9.6   -9A.   -9.6
lomtfo  etwfP                        4.3    1.4    3.8    8.9   -0.9    0.0    2.5    5.8    7.0    9.0    93              9.      9.?    9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9
cmsq .isP                           95.7   98.6    9.2   W.1  160.9  106.0   9.5   95.0   93.0   91.0   90.7   90.    90.3   90.1   90.1    9.1   90.1
uaqutim per Ca. 6redl              -17.0   -2.3  -11.1    9.9    4.5    1.1    0.1    0.1    0.9    1.2    1.3    1.               2.0     Lo    LI    2.1    L.
Creuflrm lidiCa
EaterMit Sebt (USS OIt) 3/          6514   76       742      961   7134   72    72   7AN    7M            712   7326   7W         4   79 M1              786   m7
OtiDP ()                            I59.4  195.1  181.6  145.1  13.3  130.4  1223   112.5  166.7   9.0   85.6   79.2   74.2   69.4    6.    60.2   56.1
thtbpwets of MPS (  4t             216.2  249.7  243.4  194.5  185.1  115.2  1614   1t4.6  134.5  121.8  114.2  .S.9   1.2                A.4   66.5   18    7.0o
Poot-_beec  InterestiuP (2)          2.6    7.9    7.7    6.6    2.8    8.9    8.6    8.1    7.4    6.7    5.9    5.4    4.6    4.4    4.2    3.5    S3
pet-Q. serwice Ratio  ) 41          20.0    6.9   33.7   14.2   25.5   26.4    3.9   22.2   18.6   15t.    13.3   10.0    6.7    9.3    9.2    8.9    8.9
Ouet Deficit (.)/IP (X) U          -21.0  -18.7  -17.8   -4.0   -6.4   -5.7   -4.1   -3.0   -2.2   -1.3             ..      ..      ..     ..      ..      ..      .
Ou4pt OeflettWUMP (O 6/             -4.9   -r.s   -a.9    3.0    - O0  -O 3    0.0    0.1    0.3    0.0              .      .        .      ..     .        .      .
Gousruowt  verwuUP  (1 Si/          24.2   28.1   28.9   35.3   32.1   31.6   31.8   31.2   30.9   30.9             ..      ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Owerwmmt "VW  IMP (Z) 6/            31.3   39.3   37.9   42.2   3.6   36.5   35.9   3.3   33.4   32.9               ..      ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
owamnt EIp.   ;/DP (  7/  45.2   46.    46.8   39.3   38.6   36.9   35.8   34.2   33.1   32.2                       ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
a"s litant
OF (Oft iens of arent JD)          231    2615   2781    30   32 3       IO 4000   4423   49      MY    M051             7313   7986   8721   95     10        1135S
Sp (nilolens of currernt u)         4086   3940   4066   4796   S1S6   55          4068   46       7193   781    655    919   1078 6 99  118   17W 47  17
lot... I..... 
Mte 
I/ SclWie grants Iut oxcuiie too  for of urker einr         in  arent acot balenee.
V  I£tudes officlkl gants but lneludo trumf*r of urker savings In currea   sectuat baltee.
3/ InlaRSles laS  en  f A    n att te   ej eatudic  e werdu eblgatlew   n 1990 ard 1991.
4/ ExWpo  of goods erd sOvlc, O      rSwlud trkwi  re      o.ttm.
5/ Iltudire forelin grants.
6i tncdins ftroefwn ugrnts.
/ intIdfn e"teruul Intert.
Ses 0W* staff ae"tistD..
380        07-Jan*O -93



Tilbte 2 a tlone of Payet
(USO mdttfen at Current Prfec)
..,t.  ...... ...... .......................................................................................................
1990   t99      1992    "  199 t4    IMS       t9      t9 1996BM I     1999    Me1   2M        ai2M    ZOO    2M0    ZWS
. . .. .. .. .. ..... . ............................................                                            ............................................... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .
A.  Exspwft of God  9n 25S                     253    246i  MY         M      31U3   3S11    WI¢ 4276  47%  5124 5S7§                        652S  7S         Ml   G
t. PwKhadlse (FOS)                           1065    1132    I       1320   1350    166       M      Z       2    124"       M      29t    317    3N  31   Z01
2.    fetor Swrvfcee              t44    1353 t44r   1529   161  t81S   19"    220S   24"    2634 2S   nOt1    =4 ZW36V                                             4M
S.    tu5t of coc   a M                         74   340  "X4M         4w24    470       M  NX         HU  OSM          10 6            M     7         5 
1. nderefwws ClF                             2n32   2571   3339   323    BeM    3596   38106   4061   434    4n I   S104   SSO    594O   6424    Q694    nX1
2. futeFtr lwvce                              983    037    954    10tS   1080   1132    1186   IM6    1310   1419   1538    t659    IM9   t935   20M    226
C.  tzesuea Sle                               -t2      -923    162    t16    mrV  -t2i?   -1121   -1030   -952  -1006   -1062   -1131  -A2Q    -U2   AM61   -ISZ
O.  ftt fator trm                              -40     -3a     -335    32S    -MX    -330    -325   -33    -321   -400   *410   -4tO    -350   -250   -2U0   -1001
t. factor aesipto                              ot    114    ltt       t2  125 In      11      13n    143    14'r   too        so     0s   100    au          290    ms
2. factor Paents                              410    477    44r    4SO    380         "I    42        417    "S    SOO    SOO    SOO    450    450    450    450
E.  Ibt  went TrnSor                            aSt    S76   1220    ItST    IM9    1182   1257   1315    HU0   14S4   511            It54    lS@     UK4    tS    t7"
S. curreta*  Ipto                             9       65    Ut6   1247   1290   1211S   1362   142    ISIS   tS98   16n    t68   tr15    17M    1826   1691
Wu Worer*' Radttan_                        SOO    4SO    SOO    S"5        90     ffO    1025    IM7    1CSO   t190   12S2    26*   1S02   1330   1389   t42
Wm Officilt  rut                           M       US      34      34      3 40    m       264    261    26t    2         21      2 89    2sr M   M5    SU        322
2. Cw0i PaVote                                 7t      N       86      90       0 tOO   t     t5      1011    III    tU      Ila    121    125    UV    tN3    Ur
F.  Cura t Accut a(wo                          -754   -Yl2   -741   -94    -01    -365    -W            49     t        46      SS       6      36      a2      as    a
G.  irEnSe of VUk            S"lim              112    71       m0      2S0       0       0       0      0       0       0       e       o       o       o       *      o
M.    *roMA/C met. 6rsf                       -1039S   Isr    -M       -M      -741    -M      4S3   -310   -GI   -224   -MS    -M|    -2Bt   -m              -Mf    -191
bA  lnct. vwkem uwn              S4    n12    r41       S34    401    365       UR       49   -tXl   '-        -3        6     -36    -B       -0    -13
t.  L*WTm Ctpitt tnftow                       -36$    6" 5      43 -S40Z        9t      46     -30      78      4       f      n   131  12    UO       t6     M0       M
2. Ibt LTtan l432    67                                       33t     VP      6t       a      -80    -M      -6       Is      51    I02       QD      4       7t     ST
a.  9|_wemf                                 439    135    335    450    622    snS    480    33            32      36      242    255    34    335    43J    49
IN   _80B                                   WI  a06    6            6n9  s61    S6r    560    4n1    402  3t8                      153    U6* 2a          MI 
3. Othr  {                                             26    -t0    -11       3        1 0 40  so? 0                  so      de      0      too    in       tM      VAO
J.  Toti  0t   item  (not)                      SW    1016      Ut       to      0       0       0       0       3       0       0       0       0      0       0       a
*1. met*Art Tom C+p*td                          O       O       O       O       O       O       O       O      O       O       O       O       O       O       e       o
2. &r   domisonMr                                       o   IIn0 242  SD    aU  a  O    O    O                                 a  O    O              a      0    0
3. SCROC orm*s S Lm                            V      ?M    ZG         20      0       0       a       0       a       0       0       0   O       O       O     O  
IL  tb_e   In Iht  _on-    2/                  -3SZ  -1S00      -39      50   -W@    -tO    -121    -176    t2!1   -U42    16         -8    -216    -Mt    -M|    -30
L.~~~~ ~ ~ ~ Ovr5Miato               7       44   -MD    -12t3      q|    42S 0     40°    0S                O       O       O      D       O       O       O
........................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................ ,s 
ot.  8I
I/ Privteaut to' rwt aIti loft&   ad cat of df* mtrwtwelt@
I/ llnctuls rat IWaid 1 W  cretel.t
_e t S wtd so  estlbf"Mt.



Table 3 i Prepd fineir  ttme
Acbt  Actal  Pretl                                                 Projected
............ ........... ........ ..................................  .................................................................................................................., 
1990     991    1992    1M        1994    1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    200         2081    2002   2U0S    2004    2005
............................................................................................................................................................................
CuOret AOcsMt V/                                  -1035    -157    -489    -31    -741    -a6          -455    -310    -131    -224    .248    -283    -61          23    -229    .191
BuIlitp of  _ssrvs  2/                             -342   -1094       -51     200    -U5    -100    *100    -161    -124    -142    -1a           -188    -216    -248      28      -329
Sched2aled mizetlon an LT 31                       -881    412    -6         436    -42    -S75         381     48       404    -38    -191        53    *2i4    a28        'U3     -4U 1
NetOtbOwr4                                          311      396        0  -175         30      40       SO      40       7        Be      so       80       O  -120        3so      t60
Deero_ t  Overdue OIn 0atin                                          440    -tZ
Total fInewirg Re red                             -1946   -1       -19    -155    -1458   -27    -1084    -897    -5             -634    -5       -544    -40      -43     -3        621
f ined bVl                                         1946    14?    189        15      1458      27n    1084      87       SO      63       522      S44     6O       a        52       2
Re    r   nisi,l  Sources 5/                       11s9    1025      711       57     S7i      51s3    564   S 1         542     41  U            49       49r      5       SOS      SU22
A             an LT Lamid                         43       135     335       9        3      240        e     300              200      200      200       0      200     20       200
393     164      3S      347      340      273     264      261      22      21      21       289      29      305      313     322
o         gts8   L_O                              32       724     2a        20       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
Entsar sry Financing Sources                        77       642    1180      908        2     740      520     33        24      16       42       s5     144      1s      239      298
eobt ..eW    t figf                               610       96    1149      m       496      425      340     303        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
NO AdjustinntLoun                                   0        0       0       40      60       40        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
[Fw ebsses                                          6        0      31  n  15         0                             0        0            0       0    Q  O        0
f                                                  -0        0      -0      120     326      275      100      33       26     1         42      55      144       3      23       2
liirea5 In 0wde QI          ttidu                 I77    5g4         0 a      0       0        0        0       0        0       0                o 0              o        D        O *
.................................................................................................................................................................. ................................................................... 
PlatesI
1J Itclubs official gemo        bw it inclu    trufer of  sdr swes.
V Extdaus ett I3l8 AM credits.
3/ Iumludo rspw* of extr.srdlewy flnusfg ad fuctus 1N  ad M   r                       e     .
4/ C_t1iged  of   t dirct foreign I,wetr_t, privet  art-t                       t, est of debt rostrasstur, u   emwr    a dsio.
5/ Inut 6C W s  end lo.
61  ncludes didwsea_nts fra  eutstwins b             es  of oxfetfusu toui ptul  dtmresNfto  fra  regarty eacted
eawitite based an a historitcal tred.
suae.: Ibrid OSNt staff sstimtes.
0 *



Table 4 : Prolectionm of SeverrUset Finance, 1993-98
(In m1ttlom of current JD)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995    1996    1997   1998
Total Revenue and Grants                 870    1027    1053    1377    1363    1462   1S86    1678    1814    1989
Revenue                                565     735      05    1150    1166    1265    1405    1527    1681    1871
Tax Revenue                          274     396     420     639    612      663       ..
Non- Tax Revenue                     291     339     385     S12    S54      602       ..
Foreign Grants                         304     292     248     227     197     19?     181      152     133     118
Total Expenditures                      1054    1224    1301    1280    1399    1475    1S56    1675    1798    1950
Current fxpenditures                   890     976    1028    1100    1153    1177    1243    1296    1377    1482
Capital Expenditures                   196     160     168     195     266     320     354      392     435     484
Met Lending                             16       2     -36    -1S      .20     -22    -11       -12    -14      -15
Extra-Budgetay Expenditures            -49      86     141       0      ..
Overalt Deficit (exct Grants)           -489    -489   -495    -130    -233    -210    -180    -148    -117    .79
Reschataled interest                      48       0       0      75      72      61      50       39      35      30
Overall Deficit (icl grants)            -136    -197    -248     172      37      48      51       42      51      69
Financing                                136     197     248    -172     -37     -48      -51     -42     -51     -69
foreign (net)                           91     211      24      68      32     -17      -7      -30      -9     -76
Net Disbursement                    -119    -137     -26    -177    -322    -251               ..      ..
Disbursement                       248     113    386      223     15i     137       ..      ..      ..      ..
Amwrtization                       368     250    412      399     4?9     388 .                    ..
External Debt Rescdeduflrn           210     347      50     264     354     235       ..      ..
Domestic (ne)                           17    -102     -61       0      79     -31      -44     -13     -43       7
Banking                               21    -123     -91    -150      79     -31      ..       ..      ..      .
Eon-eB*Ssources                       -4      21      29     150       0       0               ..      ..      .
Chane In Overcke Obifsatfons            28      89     285    -124       7       0       ..      ..
Cost of External Debt Restructurin      ..      ..      ..    109    -141        0       ..              ..      .
Discrepancy                             -0       0      -0      -7       0       0       0        0       0       0
Sources t Ministry of finance, IMF, and staff estimtes.
{0
o N



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 7
TUB ASEMIaTE KINGDO OP JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTM    PROGRAM
August 16, 1993
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President:
1.    We wish to confirm the intention of the Government of Jordan to carry
out an Energy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP), for which we request support
from the World Bank in the form of an Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL).
The ESAP would complement and deepen the macroeconomic reforms which are being
undertaken with the support of the International Monetary Fund (INF).
2.   As you know, the Government's Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (1986-90)
stressed the importance of improving energy efficiency by rationalizing energy
prices and diversifying energy supplies. During the first two years of the
Plan, the Government implemented a number of sector reforms. These included:
(a) eliminating energy subsidies by implementing economic energy pricing
measures; (b) promoting demand management and energy conservation measures to
encourage efficiency in energy use; (c) promoting oil and gas exploration
activities to private and international oil companies; and (d) developing
renewable energy resources with foreign assistance.
3.    Initially, these reforms helped to check the rate of growth in energy
demand, promoted some indigenous oil and gas production, and encouraged
participation by the private suctor which is active in many energy activities,
including electricity distribution, oil and gas exploration, and oil refining.
However, since 1988, a range of developments, including the major currency
devaluation, the Gulf crisis and the uncertainty of oil prices, has
exacerbated sector issues. The thrust of our policy now is to strengthen the
enabling environment to improve resource efficiency and the management of
resource development, and to attract greater private sector parttcipation. We
are focussing particularly on energy pricing policies; financial and
institutional restructuring of energy sector enterprises; the regulatory
framework for the power subsector; and environmental protection and energy
conservation.



ANNEX III
_ 39 _                  Page 2 of 7
4.    The ESAP would comprise comprehensive reforms in these areas.  In this
regard, the Government is committed to implementing the policy and
institutional actions described below and in the attached matrix (Attachment)
to achieve the objectives of the program outlined in this letter.
V      -RW N      ONOGCa
5.    Since 1988, the Government has implemented a number of important policy
actions to redress macroeconomic imbalances, reduce distortions in the trade
regime and restore economic growth. These actions included: (a) deficit-
reduclng measures to contain public expenditures, decrease consumer subsidies
and enhance revenue generation; (b) a significant devaluation of the exchange
rate and the pursuit of a flexible exchange rate policy to maintain export
competitiveness; (c) a substantial restructuring of the import tariff system;
(d) deregulation of interest rates; and (e) a strengthening of institutional
support for private sector development in trade and industry. Implementation
of these actions has been assisted by Bank/Fund supported programs and Paris
Club debt reachedulings. The policy changes were successful in reducing
macroeconomic imbalances.
6.    Jordan coped successfully with the adversities created by the Gulf
crisis of 1990. In 1991 and 1992, its GDP growth gained momentum. The fiscal
ind current account deficits continued to decline, and domestic inflation
fell. By 1992, the budget deficit had been brought down to about 41 of GDP,
well below the target of 13.7X. The 1992 current account deficit was narrowed
and foreign exchange reserves increased to about US$750 million, or about 3
months of imports. Domestic inflation leveled off at about 5X per annum.
7.    Ve have now: (a) maintained the progress in macroeconomic stabilization;
(b) received assurances of financing sufficient to close the 1993 financing
gap; and (c) received tentative indications of adequate financial support for
1994. In recognition of these efforts, we have reached agreement wit.A the IF
on an extension of the current Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) and we plan to agree
on a successor SBA for 1994-95.
8.   The Government remains committed to maintaining a sound, medium-term
macroeconomic framework, supported by an appropriate external financing plan
that would preclude non-concessional borrowing. In this respect, a Bank
operation in support of the ESAP would play a critical role in helping Jordan
to implement the SBA program, and to close its financing gap during 1993-94.
THE ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
9.    Our main objectives for the ESAP, which we expect to substantially
accomplish during the implementation of the ESAL, are to: .
(a)   rationalize domestic energy prices to ensure they cover economic
costs and promote efficiency in energy use;
(b)   restore the financial viability and self-financing of energy
sector enterprises to enable efficient commercial operations;



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 7
- 40 -
(e) meet energy demand at least cost to the economy, in part by
promoting the development of domestic natural gas resources to
substitute for imported petroleum;
(d)   restructure energy sector institutions into autonomous,
commercially-oriented and viable corporate entities and open the
sector to private ownership and participation;
(e)   adopt a transparent regulatory framework conducive to competition
and private sector participation;
(f) enact environmental regulations and establish institutional
mechanisms to ensure sector development compatible with
preservation of the environment; and
(g) improve energy conservation, electricity demand management and
load management to complement and supplement price signals,
improve power supply reliability and quality, and reduce system
losses.
10.  The ESAP would complement and deepen the ongoing adjustment program in
several important ways. Given Jordan's resource limitations and balance of
payments constraints, the country needs an efficient energy sector to promote
economic growth at the lowest economic cost, reduce the burden ol the
Government budget, reduce foreign exchange outlays on energy imports, and
mobilize resources for sector entities. In this regard, the ESAP would
contribute to the reduction of the fiscal imbalance through the adjustment of
energy prices and institutional reforms; this would, in turn, remove
distortions and improve resource efficiency. In addition, it would
restructure sector institutions and improve the regulatory framework for more
effective and efficient sector management.
Pricinm and InvestaM  Reforms
11.   Electrieity Priclng and Xnvestment.  Since the major devaluation of
1988, Jordan's three power entities have faced difficult financial conditions
and have experienced substantial losses. They are highly leveraged and have
no net cash generation with which to finance investment needs.
12.   Our electricity pricing objectives are two-fold: economic efficiency and
commercialization. On economic efficiency grounds, we plan to achieve and
maintain tariffs at a level which would cover long run marginal cost (LRMC).
If necessary to achieve our commercialization objectives, we will further
adjust tariffs sufficiently to enable the power entities to generate enough
funds to achieve financial viability, finance a part of future investment
needs and improve their access to capital markets. We increased average
electricity tariffs by 12.1X on June 15, 1993; this should approximately cover
the estimated LRKC and also enable each of the power entities to meet a debt
service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.0 times.



ANNEX III
- 41 -                   Page 4 of 7
13.   By May 1994, we will adjust average tariffs as necessary and implement
financial restructuring measures to enable the power entities to cover 100l of
LRNC and also to attain financial viability by achieving a DSCR of 1.25 times
and a self-financing ratio (SFR) of 20X. The financial restructuring measures
will be developed under a restructuring study described below. By May 1995,
average tariffs will be further adjusted as necessary to enable the power
entities to continue to cover economic costs and also to meet financial
performance targets necessary for them to achieve commercialization
objectives, i.e., a DSCR of 1.50 times, a self-financing ratio of 351 and a
reasonable rate of return on equity (which we will establish following
completion of the restructuring study).
14.   Consistent wlth our pricing objectives, the power entLties will continue
to adhere to a least cost investment strategy for electric power expansion
that will direct scarce resources to only the highest priority works. The
strategy will take into account: the latest load forecast; the availability of
fuels, including domestic natural gas; opportunitles for regional
interconnections; evolving technologies, including combined cycle power plants
using natural gas; economic fuel prices; and environmental concerns. The
rolling core investment program (CIP) (1993-1995) for the electricity
subsector satisfies these criterla.
15. Petroleu= and Natural Gas Pricina and Investment. We will adjust
petroleum product pricing to reflect the economic costs of individual
petroleum products. Currently, weighted average petroleum prices are above
world market prices but the relationship between domestic and economic prices
(border prices plus internal distribution costs) varies among different
products. We will set and adjust prices annually on the basls of an import
parity formula, reflecting changes in average economic prices during a
historical, moving-average, 12-month perlod. In June 1993, we raised the
price of jet fuel by about 191, kerosene by about 201 and fuel-oil (for
electricity) by about 141 to close more than half of the gaps between domestic
and economic prices. We will make further pricing adjustm-nts by May 1994 as
necessary to maintain economic prlces of individual petroleum products, and
thereafter adjust prices as necessary to maintain this pricing policy. Should
it be necessary to alleviate any adverse impact of the pricing adjustments on
the poor, our policy would be to use non-pricing mechanisms wherever possible.
16. Jordan produces about 18 million cft/day of natural gas, which is used
to fuel approximately 141 of all electric power generation. In keeping with
the environmental beneflts and the relatively lower production costs of
natural gas, government policy is to price natural gas lower than the price of
the fuel-oil equlvalent. Based on international experience and in
consultation with international oil companies, we consider that a natural gas
price of about 851 of the price of fuel-oil equivalent should provide adequate
incentives for efficient production and use of natural gas. Accordingly, in
June 1993, we adjusted the price of natural gas to maintain it at 85X of the
price of the fuel-oil equivalent. We will continue to maintain the natural
gas price at 851 of the fuel-oil equLvalent price in conformity with
adjustments to the fuel-oil price.



ANNEX III
-42-                  Page 5 of 7
17.   We want to promote natural gas development where economically justified
to substitute for imported oil. Such development is dependent on the size of
recoverable gas reserves. about which there is substantial uncertainty; even
the extent of reserves in the existing field is not known. We have adopted a
core Investment program (CIP) (1993-1995) of public investment in the oil and
gas subsector which will help to delineate both the size and the rate of
sustainable natural gss production. The CIP will comprise essentially only
the completion of long-term testing and evaluation of the existing gas field.
ZaWILML 92a
18.    ns=Lwal Rat=  Obiectivs ad AtLo  Plan.  We are in the process
of employing consultants to conduct a sector restructuring study to assist in
achieving our objectives to: (a) promote better operations of sector
enterprises by separating ownership, management and regulatory functions; (b)
commercialize and corporatize sector enterprises to increase autonomy.
increase competition, and to open the sector n:o private sector participation
in their ownership and operation; (c) improve the effectiveness and
transparency of regulatory processes and dec.sion-making and ensure that
environmental concerns are addressed; and () increase the access and reliance
of the power subsector on capital markets and reduce their dependence on
financial support from the Government. The restructuring study is expected to
be implemented in consultation with the Bank and completed during the first
quarter of 1994. The study will provide a d.ltailed action plan for the
required institutional, financial and regulatory reform measures, as well as
the operational and legislative action programs for implementing these
reforms. We expect to seek agreement with you by April 1994 on the study's
recommendations and on time-bound action programs for their implementation.
19.   Power SibasetaM. In April 1993, the Government restored full autonomy
to the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA), including independence from civil
service regulations. Based on the recommendations of the restructuring study,
we will seek agreement with you, by April 1994, on an action plan for
subsector restructuring to: (a) commercialize and corporatize all of the
power entities and ensure that they are held accountable for performance and
are able to operate at arm's length from government; (b) establish the
enabling environment for private sector investment in power generation and
distribution; and (c) promote competition within the subsector. By May 1995,
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the agreed action plan would be
achieved.
20.    snQj2Ea and KeSLAuClatr, framerk. We appreciate the critical
importance of actions to strengthen mechanisms for setting overall policy and
for coordinating sector development as well as for establishing a legislative
and regulatory framework that will protect the interests of the various
stakeholders and the public. Based on the recommendations of the
restructuring study, we will seek agreement with you, by April 1994, on an
action plan for: (a) the adoption of a transparent legislative and regulatory
framework for the power subsector to govern operations of the power entities,
lncluding the setting of tariffs; and (b) a program to strengthen the focus
and capabllities of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) in the



ANNEX III
43                      Page 6 of 7
areas of policy formulation, strategic plarning, environmental protectlon and
energy conservation, to enable it to play a more effective role in managing
and sustaining the reform program. We would complete the implementation of
the agreed regulatory framework, and the restructuring of MmR's role and
functions, by May 1995.
21.   Oil and Gas Sbsuctor.  The Natural Resources Authority (NRA) requires
reorganization to enable it to substantially Improve its operatlonal
efficiency and effectiveness. In the past, it has been hampered by
institutional difficulties and an inappropriate mix of regulatory functions
and operational responsibilities. The Government intends to divest NRMAs oil
and gas exploration/production activities and to establish a commercially
autonomous company under Jordanian company law to take over NRA's oil and gas
operations. The company will confine its operations to relatively low risk
activities. Its charter would enable it to utilize in its operations, any
*instrument permissible under Jordanian law, including entering into joint
ventures. In this regard, we are currently carrying out a CIDA-financed study
to determine the most appropriate operational modalities and legal form for
the proposed oil/gas company. Our intent is that, by May 1994, the company
will be established and commence operations. However, should the CIDA-
financed study and our further deliberations indicate that establishment and
commencement of operations by Kay 1994 would not be feasible because
Parliamentary approval would be necessary, we would submit the required
documents to the Parliament and thereupon seek agreement with you on a revised
timetable for the establishment and start of operations of the company.
22. Following completion of the restructuring study, we will seek agreement
with you by April 1994 on an action plan for reorganizing NRA's remaining
functions and for ensuring transparent regulation of the oil/gas activities.
By May 1995, satisfactory progress in the implementation of the agreed action
plan would be achieved.
Environmental Protect
23. The Government is preparing comprehensive draft environmental
legislation that should provide an adequate framework for establishing
responsible guidelines and regulations for energy sector development that is
compatible with preservation of the environment. By April 1994, we will
strengthen environmental regulations which are required to improve
environmental protection in energy operations to generally accepted standards.
Environmental codes for oil and gas operations and the power subsector are now
under preparation. Subsequently, we will endeavor to achieve progress
satisfactory to the Bank in implementing and enforcing environmental
guidelines and regulations in energy operations. Towards this end, we have
established an environmental unit in the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources and will designate a competent environmental regulatory authority at
the national level by May 1994.



- 44 -                     ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
moeray Efficiency and Conservation
24. We expect that the pricing reforms will have a major impact on energy
demand and conservation efforts; however, addltional measures still need to be
taken. With Bank assistance in the past, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources has undertaken comprehensive energy audits of key industries and
commercial and transport institutions, accounting for over 40X of the
country's energy consumption, and is monitoring actions taken on the basis
thereof. Sources of potentially significant savings have been identified. We
have adopted action plans to carry out further energy audits and to help
achieve the indicated energy savings through the establishment of
information/advisory centers, improvements in the regulatory and incentives
framework and other activities.
25. We will also implement measures to improve electricity demand management
and load management, including electricity pricing. Tariff levels for
consumer classes will be adjusted by May 1994 to reflect actual costs, except
possibly for "lifeline" rates for low income consumers. In order to make this
adjustment, we will carry out and complete a tariff rate design study by
January 1994.
26. On the supply side, we will explore all opportunities for improving
power supply reliability and for further reducing losses in all stages of
electricity generation, transmission and distribution to achieve energy
savings. The power entities will formally adopt efficiency targets, undertake
an action plan to achieve the targets, incorporate indicators of operational
efficiency in their planning and information systems, and monitor results. In
addition, they will further exploit load management techniques to reduce their
peak load and energy generation requirements.
27. We have reached agreement with you on time-bound action plans for
improving energy conservation, including electricity demand management and
power system performance. The action plans include indicators, against which
we will monitor progress.
Sincerely,
nister  f Planning
Attachment
As\loplIj*or



-45 -
Page I of 4
THE  ASUU ITE KIaG3   OF Jmm
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTEENT LON  (ESAL)
PWLICT AID INSTIIUTIONAL ACTICES MATRIX
'Actfons Taken Prior                   Actifm  by                       Actions by
to Board Presentation            Second Trae,'a Rel go               Third Tranche RNloSt
A. objective: Maintain a supportive macroeconomic framsork and exte_na financing
I.   Macroeconomic  Agreement reached with the IMF on         Naintenance of the               Continued maintenance of
Framework       'liediun-term macroeconomic framework    macroeconomic framework,        the macroeconomic
ind on strategy towards mediun-totrm    including satisfactory          framework, including
external financing plan with            progress with external           satisfactory progress with
objective of iwprovlng debt ratios,    financing plan.                   external f inancing plan.
B. Objective: Ratonatlize enrg  pricing
I.    Electricity     Average electricity tariffs were         Adjust average tariffs as       Adjust tariffs as necessary
increased by 12.1X on June 15, 1993    necessary to maintain full        to maintain full coverage
to apWroximately cover the estimated   coverage of LRMC and to meet   of LRC  nd to meet
LRIIC.  A core investment program       financfal targets (see Cdi)    ffnancial targets (see CUf)
(CIP) for the power subsector, which   below).                          below).
is reflected in the LRMC
calculation, has been adopted.
ff.   Petrolaem        The prices of Jet fuel, kerosane and   Achieve and maintain              AdJust prices as necessary
fuel-oil (for electricity) were         economic prices for              to maintain economic prices
Increased In June 1M93 by about 19.,   individual petroleum              for individual petroleum
20X and 14X, respectively, to close    products.                         products.
more than 1/2 of the gaps with
economic prices.
III.  Natural gas      The price of natural gas (for            Maintain price of natural       Maintain price of natural
electricity) was adjusted in June       gas (for electricity) at 85X   gas (for electricity) at
1993 to maintain it at 85X of price    of price of fuel-oil              852 of price of fuel-oil
of fuel-oil equivalent (for             equivalent.                      equivalent.
electricity).



- 46 -
Page 2 of 4
Actiaw Taks Prior                        Actio* n  by                    Actim by
, _~~~~~~~ed Traeho bl ethd TrueRel_ l
C. ObJecttvaz  R¢struettwe  c1rcialize ad cerpoatio  uw   ector Ihittutlom  to reto  f1rw1at vlablfty,
stranthe  ceirciatiztion, inceese opulb  to private sectr peticipotion ard altt privaft sector
Ivest*t In ps g enatin awm distribution1   lprov1   sector piaBliw  frameok; wia eawe
,liqaudegsce  transparency  n  con*sstency In resulatoy tm.
1.    Pooer           A 12.1X 4vaogo tariff inease has    Implement further tartft            iplemnt further tariff
SUboector       been iplemented (see DCI) above) to   adjustments and financisl         adjustments to snable each
enabte each utitity to met 4 debt       restructuring measures to       utiltty to omet specified
service coverage COSCR) financial       enable each utilfty to meet   finanifsl targeto (DoCR of
target of 1.00 times.                  specified financial targets    1.50. SFR of 35X and a
(0SCR of 1.25 timos and SFR    reasonable rate of return
of 201) and to cover            on equity (to be defined by
economic costs CLRNC).          the restructurfnr  study
below)) and to cover
economic costs CLEIC).
The Government has fnitiated a          Complete the restructurtng      Satisfectory progress fn
restructuring study of the ener'w      study and agree with the         lsplamentation of the
sector, ineluding  nstitutionat,        lank cn an action plan for      agrie  action plan for
regulatory, and ffrancial               the restructuring of the        subseetor restructuring,
restructuring of power subsector, to   power subsector.                covering: (a)
develop a dets:led action plan for                                      coiaerctaltiat1on and
achieving reform objectives.                                            corpor atfiation of all
pM" entities; (b)
Actions have been taken to restore                                      iteoased ecmpetition among
the autonomy of JEA, including                                          powr entities; (c)
I ndIenIence from cfvil service                                        establfshment of enabling
regulations.                                                            condftions to allow private
eawter lnvestment In power
genration and
distributfon; and (d)
estabitshment of a
transparent ltgislativ and
regulatory frauework to
govern operations of power
entities including the
setting of tariffs.



- 47 -
Page 3 of 4
Acticns Taken Prior                      Aetihm  by                      Actions by
to Board Presentation               HSecod TrA    Be Rase.           Third Tranime Relno se
ii.   Natural          A Governmnt decision has boon taken   Istablish the oll/gau
Resources       to separate oIl and gas operations       coopany and coemence
Authority        from NRA and to couwnrcialize/          operatiens.
(NRA)           corporatize them. A study Is
underway to define the modalities
for estabtishing NRA*s oll and gas      Adopt agreed ection plan to    Satisfactory progress in
operations as a commarelally            reorganize NRA.                  the faplementatien of the
autonomous coepany under Jordanian                                      agrsed actlon plan to
company law, whose charter would                                         reorganize NRA.
allow for joint ventures, to take
over NRA's operations. A core
investment program (CIP) for the olt
and gas subsector has beon adopted.
iii.   Ministry of     As part of restructuring study           CoWplete the NENR               Satisfactory progress In
Energy and      (refer C(i) above), the Governrent       reorganization  nalysis and    the fIplementation of the
Nineral         has initiated an evaluation of           adopt an agreed action plan    agreed action plan.
Resources       alternative organizational               to strengthen mechanisms for
(MEMR)          arrangements for MENR and the            setting overall polley and
preparation of an action plan to        coordinating sector
reorganize and strengthen polfcy        development.
formulation and plaming futntions.
0. Objective:  leprove emvironuentat protection:  adopt e,mirosmm2tal gudeslines/regulations ad dausignat onitoring
wnd eforceaent autdority
The Governrmnt has: (a) initiated a    Satisfactory progress in          Satisfaetory progress in
program for detalled preparation of    preparing and enacting            laplementatfon and
guidelines and codes for                envirermental                    enforcement of
environmental protection in energy      guidelines/regulations for      environrumntal regulations
sector operations, nicluding oil and   the  nergy sector.                In the energy sector.
gas operations and the power            Cosignato a competent
subsector; and (b) established an       authority at the national
envirormental unit in NENW  to          level to monitor and enforce
monitor and oversee  rnviromuental      envirornental regulations In
protection in energy operatlons.        the energy sector.



- 48 -
&UxLi~
Pagj  4 of 4
Aetians  teken Prfor                      Acticfa  by                     Actifis by
to DAard Prementtifon                s-caid Trandue Rlease L          Third TnCCh.Rleaget
E. *bjeativ.w    iprwo am gy n  conervationm  strengthen electricity dIsnd r4ea, paar plant effi ciency~
Iswasawmt ptawnnng  end institutifnat sqpaort mdchaifsms
An agrood action plan has been          Continue implementation of       Continue ieplementation of
adopted for inproving energy            agreed action plan and           action plan and monitor
conservatfon efforts and the            monitor progress in              progress in achieving
Ineessary institutional                 achieving expected              expected improvements in
Implementation capacity in              improvements in erd-uwe         end-use energy
husehold, industry and                  energy conservation.             conservatfon.
1nfrastructure sectors and to
identify areas for further
iwprovemnt fn end-use energy
coervatfon.
An sgreed action program has been       Continue wmplementation of       Adjust/improve agreed
adopted to iqprove demand               agreed action program and        action plan as necessary to
maunpement, including electricity       monitor performanee.             take into account
prieing to the various consumer         Complete rate design study       performance/results.
elasses which reflect the actual        and adopt recessary              Continue implemrntation and
costs of Supply (LoC), except           improvements in tariff           monitoring.
possSbly for  iffelinfne  onsumers.    structure.
An electrie rate design study is
being inftiated.
An agreed action plan has been          Continue implementation of       Adjust/improve agreed
adopted to improve power system         agreed action plan and           action plan as necessary
performance including toad              monitor performanee. Achieve   taking into account
managoe ent.  Incorporate plant         specified targets.               performance/results.
effiecency targets in corporate                                          Continue implementation and
plans.                                                                  monitoring.
Notes   Satisfactory progress as a tranche release condition with respect to any program cparenent, will be measured a'mainst
agreed action ptans.
Augut 16, 1993
.:hdes2S%*mxO.gi



- 49 -
Page 1 of 3
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SectfonI:  Timetable of Kev Events
(a)   First Bank Preparation Mission (following interruption by
Gulf Crisis): February 1992
(b)   Subs. ;uent Bank Preparation Missions:  June 1992 and
September 1992
(c)   Project prepared by:  Government/Bank
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:  March 31, 1993
(e)   Negotiations:  July 25 - August 7, 1993
(f)   Planned Date for Effectiveness:  December 1, 1993
Section II: Special ImRlementation Action
None
ection III:  Sgecial Cotaditions
Cgnditions for the Release of the Second Tranche:
(a)   Maintain an agreed medium-term macroeconomic framework
supported by an appropriate external financing plan (para.
45);
(b)   Implement power tariff adjustments and financial
restructuring measures to enable each power entity to meet
specified financial targets (DSCR of 1.25 times and SFR of
20X) and to cover economic costs (LRMC) (para. 50);
(c)   Achieve and maintain economic prices for individual
petroleum products (para. 53);
(d)   Maintain the price of natural gas (for electricity) at 85X
of the price of fuel-oil equivalent (for electricity) (para.
54);



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
(e)   Complate the restructuring study and adopt an agreed action
plan for power subsector restructuring (paras. 59, 60 and
63);
(f)   Adopt an ag.reed action plan for the reorganization of NRA
(para. 65);
(g)   Adopt an agreed action plan to reorganize MEMR and to
strengthen mechanisms for setting overall policy and
coordinating sector development (para. 56);
(h)   Achieve satisfactory progress in preparing and enacting
environmental guidelines/regulations for the energy sector.
Designate a competent authority at the national level to
monitor and enforce environmental regulations in the energy
sector (paras. 68 and 69); and
(i)   Implement agreed action plan for improving energy
conservation, including electricity demand side management
and power system performance (paras. 70 to 73).
Conditions for the Release of the Third Tranche:
(a)  Maintain the agreed macroeconomic framework and achieve
satisfactory progress with the external financing plan
(para. 45);
(b)   Implement further tariff adjustments to enable each power
entity to meet specified financial targets (DSCR 1.50 and
SFR of 35X) and to cover economic costs (LRMC) (para. 50);
(c)   Adjust prices of individual petroleum products as necessary
to maintain them at economic prices (para. 53);
(d)   Maintain the price of natural gas (for electricity) at 85S
of the price of fuel-oil equivalent (for electricity) (para.
54);
(e)   Achieve satisfactory progress in implementation of the
agreed action plan for subsector restructuring, covering:
(i)      Commercialization and corporatization of all
power entities;
(ii)      Increased competition among power entities;
(iii)      Establishment of the enabling conditions to
allow private sector investment in power
generation and distribution; and



- 51 -
ANNEX
Page 3 of 3
(iv)      Establishment of a transparent legislative and
regulatory framework to govern operations of
power entities, including setting of tariffs
(paras. 59, 60 and 63);
(f) Achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
action plans for reorganizing NRA and MEMR (paras. 56 and
66);
(g)   Achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation and
enforcement of environmental regulations in the energy
sector (paras. 68 and 69); and
(h)   Continue implementation of energy conservation measures,
including electricity demand side management and power
system performance (paras. 70 to 73).



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 7
THE HALSHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTO  ADUSTM         LAN
CONS)LIDATED FINANCIAL  =RQJ¢TIONS FOR THE POWER =ETITIES
1 92_- 199
Basis for the jroecttions
1.    Inflation and Exchange Rates.  The following forecast inflation and
exchange rates have been used wherever stated in this annex.
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
International inflati=n - X           3.9  3.9   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8
Local inflation - X                   4.5   4.4   4.3   4.0   4.0   4.0
Average exchange rate - lUS$-JD      .692  .692  .692  .692  .692  .692
All other foreign currencies are assumed to remain constant vis-a-vis the US$.
A constant exchange rate against the US$ has been used as the differences
between the forecast international and local inflation rates are
insignificant.
2.    Sales and Revenues.  Sales projections for JEA, JEPCO and IDECO are
based on JEA's "Medium" growth scenario. Energy sales by JEA to JEPCO and
IDECO are reduced by Z distribution losses as estimated by JEPCO and IDECO.
The resulting electricity sales for the power subsector show the following
growth rates:
1293129412 12   129       9   1221
Increase over previous year - X       9.3   6.8   7.9   6.0   6.4   5.7
Sales revenues are based on current 1992 average tariff levels of each
company, increased as follows:
12211224 1222 19  1997  1221
Increase over previous year - X:
JEA                                  12.0  22.5   8.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
JEPCO                                12.0   5.5  13.5   0.0   0.0   0.0
IDECO                                12.0  35.5   2.5   0.0   0.0   0.0
POWER SUBSECTOR                      12.1  14.4  10.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Tariff increases are assumed to be implemented on June 1, 1993, May 1, 1994
and May 1, 1995. The power entities should meet a debt service cover of at
least 1.0 times in 1993. Future increases are set to meet the following
criteria:
By 1994 Fr£m 1995
Debt Service Cover - times                              1.25        1.50
Self Financing Level - X                                  20          35
In addition to the above, thQ average tariff should at least equal the long
run marginal cost (LRMC), as from 1994.



- 53 -
AhNE VI
Page 2 of 7
The present level of annual compensation of JD 2 million from JEA to IDECO is
maintained throughout. "Other" operating revenue is assumed to increase in
line with local inflation.
3.    ORerating Costs.  Purchased energy costs of JEPCO and IDECO have been
uplifted by increases in JEA's average tariff. For 1993 only, transfer
payments of JD 1.8 million from JEPCO to JEA, and JD 0.55 million from JEA to
IDECO have been reflected. JEPCO's transfer payment represents the absorption
of estimated excess profits in terms of its concession agreement. Payment to
IDECO represents the additional revenue required for it to meet a debt service
cover of 1.0 times. Transfer payments have not been considered for future
years as these would be highly speculative. Heavy fuel-oil price to JEA is
increased from the present subsidized price of JD 43 per ton by JD 6 per ton
on June 1, 1993, and a further JD 6 per ton from May 1, 1994, so as to reach
the present international border price by May 1, 1994. No further adjustments
to heavy fuel-oil price have been considered beyond May 1994. Depreciation
has been calculated by applying the companies' normal depreciation rates to
the average cost of fixed assets in service, including new assets brought into
operation. Cost, for JEA, includes capitalized exchange losses. For JEPCO
and IDECO, capitalised exchange losses have been depreciated on a straight
line basis over 25 and 15 years respectively. Corporation taxes for JEPCO and
IDECO have been provided at the present tax rate of 38X, applied to accounting
profits. No corporation taxes are provided until past accounting losses are
utilized against future profits. Cost of salary and wages in 1993 has been
increased over 1992 by 11.4X for JEA, 6.3X for JEPCO, and 7.5X for IDECO, as
anticipated by the respective companies. In future years, salaries and wages
are assumed to increase in line with local inflation. JEA's plant maintenance
and operation costs are estimated at 0.7243 fils/kWh of generated electricity,
in line with recent past experience. All other operating costs are assumed to
increase in line with local inflation.
4.    Non Operating Income/Costs.  These are assumed to increase in line with
local inflation.
5.    Fixed Assets and Work in Progress.  In the case of JEA, new investment
is transferred from work in progress to fixed assets in the year in which the
project is commissioned. For JEPCO and IDECO, it is assumed that projects are
completed within the year in which they are started. New investment has been
forecast as follows:
JEA: New investments are in accordance with JEA's investment plans. Capital
expenditures make provision for inflation. The Jordan/Egypt inter-connection
has not been considered as decisions have yet been taken to proceed with the
project.
JEPCO: JEPCO's projected base costs (before inflation and contingency) are
adjusted for international inflation, for foreign cost component, and local
inflation, for local cost component. Contingency provision of 3X (as provided
by JEPCO) is added. Split between foreign and local costs are as estimated by
JEPCO. JEPCO's projections are based on the company's five year plan to 1997,
and a round sum estimate made by the company for 1998.



- 54 -
ANN-EX VI
Page 3 of 7
IDECO: IDECO's projected base costs, which make no allowance for inflation,
are adjusted for international inflation, for foreign cost component, and
local inflation, for local cost component. Split between foreign and local
costs are as estimated by IDECO. Rural electrification projects, as estimated
by IDECO, have been included under the assumption that these will be financed
by the Government through its Rural Fils Fund.
6.    Accunts LqReevable.  These are estimated as follows: for JEA, at 55
days' sales for 1993, and 45 days' sales thereafter; for JEPCO, 60 and 50
days' sales for 1993 and 1994 respectively, and 45 days' sales thereafter; for
IDECO, 80 and 60 days' sales for 1993 and 1994 respectively, and 45 days'
sales thereafter. For JEPCO and IDECO, an additional 10 has been added to
cover television license and garbage fees, billed with electricity charges and
collected on behalf of the Government.
7.   Inventories.  These are estimated at 8.75X for JEA and 121 for JEPCO and
IDECO, of net fixed assets in service, in line with recent past experience.
8.   Unpaid Debt Service.  For JEA, JD 30.4 million is converted to a long
term loan in 1993 in accordance with an agreement with the Government, and the
balance of JD 4.4 million is assumed to be paid in 1993. For JEPCO and IDECO
it is assumed that all unpaid debt service at December 31, 1992, including
IBRD exchange risk costs but excluding amounts for which terms of settlement
have been agreed, will be repaid over five years, commencing 1993, at no
interest.
9.    Loans and Interest.   Balances, borrowing, repayments and interest on
foreign currency loans are stated at constant December 31, 1992 exchange
rates. The following borrowing policies have been adopted for all new
investment for which financing is not in place:
JEA: Identified large generation and transmission projects: 801 to 1996, 50%
1997, and no borrowing in 1998. All other projects: no borrowing.
JEPCO and IDECO: No new borrowing other than draw-down of existing negotiated
facilities.
Terms for new borrowing for JEA's investments are assumed to be: repayments
over 20 years including 5 years' grace, with interest at 81 per annum (p.a.).
The grace period is reduced to the construction period of a project if it is
of less than five year's duration.  No refinancing or rescheduling of existing
debt has been considered. Interest on cash deficit (Bank Overdraft) is
provided at an annual rate of 81 p.a.. Interest during construction (IDC) is
capitalised and added to fixed assets. IDC is only calculated on specific
project related loans. All other interest is expensed.
10. CaRital and Dividends. It is assumed that JEPCO will issue new shares
at 351 premium as follows: 3 million shares in 1993, 1.5 million shares in
1995, and 1.5 million shares in 1996. For JEPCO and IDECO, dividends to
shareholders are provided each year at 101 of their respective nominal
capital, except for 151 provision for JEPCO's 1993 dividend.



ANNEX VI
-56 -                               Page 5 of 7
JORDM ELCIC POWER SECTOR (CNRISING JUA, JEPIM & IDECO)
CUShlE  INCONE STATERENS
FOR THE TES EMuE DECEo   31. 1990 - 1998                                                                 0
---- ------ -AcWl-I   -- - -- -- - - -- - --- -  ---- ---J ee * ----- - -*- *-- --*  
.......Actuat---------------------Projected ............
1990     19      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      19t       1998
, ~~~~~~~....             .  ....     ....  .  . ....    ....   .  . .... ... ....... ., .. ... ........
aENERATION Mm                 3,269   3,351    4,024    4,394    4,701    5.074    5,365      S.706     6,025
SALES VA9                     2,746   2,79f    3,374    3.608    3,937    4,248    4,504      4,794     5,065
AVERAGE TARIFF FILS/EIM        28.7    32.1     32 9      35.0    40.5      45.1     66.6      4.6       4.5
EECTRICITY REVENUE         78,920  89.801  110,855  129,260  159,380  191,519  209,910   223,252   23S,712
OTNER OPERATING REVENUE     3,004   2,933    3,386    3,m       3,947    4,060    4,170     4,264      4,404
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE    81,924  92,734  114,241  134,283  163,327  195,579  214,080   227,536   240,116
oPRATING COSTS
OPERATING EXPENSES         48.122  55,341   68,797   83,611   99,521   114,662  119,537   116,006   124,402
ERECIATION                 22,41S  23,104   21,307   21,958   22,697   24,342   24,673    33,633    34,200
FMoEIN EXCNANU LOSSES      14,283   5,415    3,969       135       0         0        0         0         0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPEWSES   84.820  0,860   94,0n3  105,704  122,218  139,004  144,210   149,639   158,602
OPERATING INCOME             (2,896)  8,874   20,168   28,579   41,109   56,S75   69,870    77,897    81,514
ON OPERATING INCOME - MET       393   2,918    2,582    2,813    2,936    3,062    3,184      3,312     3,445
INTEREST                    (20,843) (19,397) (17,04S) (16.858) (15,523) (14,174) (11,362)  (19,807)  (17,442)
TEt ICOM                    (23,346) (7,605)   5,70    14,534   28,522   45,463   61,692    61,402    67,517
Note: Publsed 1990 results are rnetated in ltne with the new foreign currency accounting policy adopted in 1991.



ANNEX VI
- 57 ~                    Page 6 of 7
HEDAM ELECTRIC POR  SECTOR (COXPRISING JEA, JEPCO & IOECO)
MEIND  LUANCE SHEETS
vR TIIE aEDECEUE 31, 199- 19                                                                           J   0
.......Ac?us......l-..............Projected.............
1990    1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996      1997      198
'It  "STS                     .--       --    ... -.              ....     .... -.
ASSEtS IN SEVCE           561,20S S73,723  53,380  s81.291  604,830  646,958  670,668   931.099   98.679
LESS: ACCUN  ERECIATION    149,531 173,940  193,483  217,69  242,670  2(9,54   296,948   333,514   30829
MET ASSETS IN SRICE       4116,74 399.783  369,8W   363,62  3,160  377,414  373,720   597,585   577.850
WIRK 1 PROGRESS            7,600   4,414    7,840   21,459   67,256  125,142  196,905       7,601    52,210
TOTAL fIXED ASSETS        419,274 404,197  377,737  38S,101  429,416  502,56  570,625   60S,186   630,060
TNH  ASSETS                    691   1,056    1,372    1,496    1,453    1,460    1,47       1,474      1,431
UT ASSETS
CASN & SANK                 8,327  10,198    7,437    4,776    4,503    4,481    4,458      4,436     4,414
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE        22,811  18,135   25,729   23,049   23,238   25,203   27,621    29,334    30,952
INVENRIES                  34,2    34,677   35,450   35,370   35,521   37,081   36,997    S6,751    55,155
oTHER                       9,015   5,440    5,345    S,689    4,875    5,443    S,469      5,078      4,806
TOTAL CURMET ASSETS        74,426  68,450   73,961   68,E84   68,137   72,209   74,545    95,599    95,32?
EWNT LIABILITIES
UNK OVERDRAFT               8,133   9,832    9,349   24,835   24,376   20,325    2,405    (6,468)  (31,881)
SOlRT TERK LOANS           35.830  32.476   31,196   33,987   32,305   30,120   25,244    23,460    31,590
DEST SERVICE               45.874  45.632   45,239    8,126    5,871    3,703    1,569          0         0
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE           17.226  11,616   19,197   11,556   17.282   18,758   19,079    20,971    22,878
OTHER                      12,583  12,162   15,247   13,687   15,759   17,824   19,900    20,511    21,283
TOTAL 0IRRET LIABILITIES   119,64  111,718  120,228   92,191   95,593   90,729   68.197    58,475    43,870
IT CURRENT ASSETS/(LIAB)   (45,220) (43,268) (46,267) (23,307) (27,456) (18,520)   6,349    37.124    51,4S?
TOTAL                   374,745 361,985  332,842  363,290  403,413  485,496  578,441    43,784   682,948
VITT                       77,591  70,417   81,958   99,192  126,757  173,289  236,321   26,879   363,536
no TEIW W                  250,196 240,503  196,129  202,763  209,037  240,166  264,567   265,001   233,299
UR LIABILITIES
cON    CONTRISUITIOS       32,178  33,886   36,481   37,625   38,813   39,912   41,168    42,326    43,385
CONsWUR DEPSITS            10,575  11,621   13,148   14,736   16,M    17,840   19,440    21,073    22,738
OTHER                       4,205   5,558    5,126    8,974   12,534   14,289   16,945    18,505    19,990
TOTAL OTNER LIABILITIES    46,9f8  51,065   54,755   61.335   67,619   n,041   77,553    81,90'    86,113
TOTAL                   374,745 361,985  332,842  363,290  403,413  485,496  578,441   643,784   682,948
to: h1iued 990 rD ults are restated in tine vith the nfw foreign currency accowning policy adopted in 1991.



-58 -                              ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
JORDAN ELECTRIC PUK SECTOR (COMPRISING JiA. JEPCO & tOECO)
COMBINED STATEMENTS OF SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECMB  31, 19  - 19                                                                      .1 coo
-       -Actuat ----- -- ------------------ Projected ........................
1990    1991      192       1993     1994      199       1996      1997       1998
SOURCE OF FUNDS                 -..         --        -- - ---                   ....     ....       ....      ....
...._...........
OPERATING INCONE               (2.896)  8,874    20,168   28,579   41,109   56,575   69,870    77.697    81,514
NON OPERATING INCOE - NOT         393   2,918    2,582    2,813    2,936    3,062    3,184         3.312      3,4S
OEPRECIATION                   22.415   23,104   21,307   21,958   22,69?   24,342   24,673    33.633    34,200
FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES        14,283    5,415    3,969       135        0         0         0         0          0
CONSUMER COITRIWUTIONS          5,787   3,397    5,012    6,850    6,902    5,210    6,40          5.46       S,460
COIUNMER DEPOSITS                834   1,046    1,527    1,568    1,536    1,568         1,600     1.633      1,665
OTHER                             855     671       858       309      307       308       313       322        327
TOTAL INTERNAL SOURCES       41,671   45,425   55,423   62,232   75,487   91,065   106,100   122,25r   126,611
LOANS                         23,16S   27,919    4,758   11,519   38,691    61,364   49,758    24,006             0
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS           2.686      791       576    4,141       336    2,361      2,m         7          713
TOTAL SOURCES                67.S22  74,135   60,757   77,892  114,514  15470   158,635   14,997   127,324
APPLICATION OF FlUNDS
, ._......._...._.
DEBT SERVICE
REPAYMENT                    39,401   47,439   35,666   33,329   36,198   34,432    32,210    26,770       23,417
INTEREST - OPERATION         20.843   19,397   17,045   16,858   15,523   14.174    11,362    19,807    17,442
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE         60,244  66,836   52,711    50,137   51,721    48,606   43,572    46,577    40,859
INVESTMENTS
CONSTRUCTION PRORSE           7,09    9,067    15,898   32.586   67,584   95,428   86,593    70,710    61,490
INTEREST - CONSTRUCTION        600      343       400      402    1,752    4,586    8,880          417        699
TOTAL INVESTMENTS           8,309   9,410    16,298   32.988   69,336   100,014   95,473    71,127    62.189
DIVIDENDS                         35      675       675    1,650    1,500    1,500    1.650        1,800      1,800
OTHER APPLICATIONS/(SOURCES)     363  (1,118)   1,389         30        43        S7       81         71         13
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         68,951   75,803   71,073   84,855  122,600  150,207  140,776   119,575    104,861
CIWNGES IN WRKING CAPITAL
- tNCREASE/CDECREASE)        (1,429) (1,668) (10,316)  (6,963)  (8,086)   4,583    17,859    27.422    22,463
Note: Published 1990 results aem restated in Line with the now foreign currency accaumting policy adopted in 1991.



- 59 -
AMEX YII
Page 1 of 4
TIHE HASHEMITE KINGDOX OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATION OF PETROLEM PRODUCT PRICES
1.    The objectives of petroleum product pricing reform are to:
(a)   eliminate subsidies to the sector;
(b)   correct distortions in relative product prices;
(c)   restructure domestic.petroleum product prices on the
basis of import parity formula to reflect border
prices plus domestic transportation and distribution
costs;
(d)   separate taxes from consumer prices to avoid
fluctuations in government revenue from the sector;
and
(e)   put in place a price adjustment mechanism to reflect
changes in economic and financial costs of petroleum
products supply and distribution.
2.   Under the proposed ESAL, the weighted average of domestic petroleum
product prices would reflect the border prices plus domestic cost of
transportation and distribution which is the internationally traded equivalent
price or import parity price.
3.    The following petroleum products of Jordan will be included in the
monitoring operation under ESAL: Regular Gasoline, Premium Gasoline, Gas Oil,
Kerosene, Fuel Oil, LPG, Jet Fuel (Avtar and Avtag), and Asphalt.
4.    Local consumption (domestic sales) is used for weighting the prices of
petroleum products in determining the ratio between domestic prices and their
internationally traded equivalents. Source for the sales statistics of the
above mentioned petroleum products would be from the Industrial Energy
Department of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR).
5.    Domestic prices of the petroleum products would be made available from
NEMR. The prevailing prices at the time the adjustment action is proposed
would be the base prices for increase. Specific percentage increases for
individual products would determine the proposed domestic prices.
6.    It is necessary to convert prices of some products given in fils/liter
to JD/ton. As the conversion is from volume equivalents to mass equivalents,
the price in fils/liter should be multiplied by a conversion factor (CF) based
on the specific gravity of the petroleum product. The specific gravity of the
individual products would be made available from MEMR.



- 60 -
Page 2 of 4.
7.    The internationally traded equivalent price or the import parity price
would be calculated for each product as average international price plus
international freight charges plus domestic cost of transportation and
distribution. The average international price is calculated using the most
recently published preceding twelve month rolling average of petroleum
products FOB Italy (and where necessary, equivalent FOB Italy based on FOB NW
Rotterdam) as published by Platt's Oilgram Price Report' (except for LPG
which is from World Propane and Butane Bulletin)a to which international
freight charge from the Mediterranean market to the main sea port in Jordan
(Aqaba) is added. The international freigbht charge and the domestic cost of
transportation and distribution for each product would be made available by
MEWR. Shown below is the source of the average international price.
Pe oduct GOource
Premium Gasoline FOB Italy                      Platt's
Premium Gasoline FOB Rotterdam                  Platt's
Regular Gasoline FOB Italy                      Computed3
Regular Gasoline FOB Rotterdam                  Platt's
Naphtha FOB Italy                               Platt's
LPG Mediterranean                               Computed4
Jet Kerosene FOB Italy                          Platt's
Gas Oil FOB Italy                               Platt's
Fuel Oil FOB Italy                              Platt's
S.   The product by product basis for calculating the average international
price is as follows:
Premium Gasoline5 - Regular Gasoline FOB Italy (computed)
/ Platt's publishes, in the first week of every month, the monthly average
prices for the preceding month. The monthly average prices published in
Platt's is used as inputs for maintaining the 12 month rolling average data
base.
2/ MEMR uses Platt's LP Gaswire as the source.
]/ Since Regular Gasoline FOB Italy is not quoted in Platt's Report, the
differential between Premium Gasoline FOB Rotterdam and Regular Gasoline FOB
Rotterdam is subtracted from Premium Gasoline FOB Italy to arrive at an
equivalent of Regular Gasoline FOB Italy.
W/ Average of the following 8 prices: High and Low of Propane and Butane,
published twice a month.
A/ Jordanian Premium Gsoline is 92 Octane which is equivalent to European
Regular.



- 61 -
ARM: VU
Page 3 of 4
Regular Gasoline6 - Average of Premium Gasoline (above) and Naphtha FOB Italy
Gas Oil             Gas Oil FOB Italy
Jet Fuel          - Jet Kerosene FOB Italy
Kerosene            Jet Kerosene - US$57
Fuel Oil          - 3.5X Fuel Oil FOB Italy
LPG               - LPG Mediterranean
Asphalt           - Fuel Oil FOB Italy - US$88
9.    The conversion of local prices to international equivalents or vice-
versa, would be based on the commercial exchange rate prevailing at the time
the increase action is undertaken.
10.   To determine the ratio of the weighted average prices of domestic to
internationally traded equivalents, the revenues from proposed domestic ptrices
are compared with the revenues from international prices. The ratio of
domestic to international revenues gives the weighted average of the petroleum
products of Jordanian domestic petroleum product prices relative to their
international equivalents.
11.  The attachment shows the computation for comparing domestic petroleum
product prices with internationally traded equivalent prices at the time of
ESAL appraisal (April 1993).
12.  At the time of future price increases, all data would be updated to
reflect the then prevailing international prices, international freight
charges, domestic transportation and distribution costs, and exchange rate
between the US Dollar and the Jordanian Dinar.
j/ Jordanian Regular Gasoline is 88 Octane.
2/ US$5/ton is subtracted to reflect difference in quality between jet
kerosene and regular kerosene.
,/ US$8/ton is subtracted to reflect difference in quality between fuel oil
and asphalt.



-62-                                                ANN^E VII
Page 4 of 4
X~~~~19                                         re. _    l   £    d _aM  0
pj   onsti  sal s, preen  Fae                                                     8v xpm    naoeS   ve
8.1.    uMit m fe  r  um        Dom Pr   Atu    lser        CF    Om. Pr   uAtS
Reulw   usolIe          269    tows      2o  i lt    330 flul/It           o0   1.3s       393 G/tan
P.aM.lia                la    tow        300 Lilmait    300 Lila/lt         09   1.33      396 GD/tea
a" Oil                   51     S tow    IN  tilI/lit    1OS  ila/ut        0    1.20      136 GD/son
s oil a(8uamer            2    te        no as  3 ila/lt    210 f A/t       0t   1.20      25  G/ton
Jet Ful   J            1Z1    tas        -0 LilA/lt       9S Lla/Uts    199   1.30         124 =D/te
Jet Fel"  (lf               . toea       180 fia/lit    1o Lt/lit           0    130       234 GD/te
leaumea                204    teas        7I Wa/lt         0o Lti/Ut       20    1.26      1t  GDtea
wl Oin  Ow             090    tow         43 G/tm         49 GD/tea        140   1.00       49   /ton
v..  au   ahaza)          2    toa        00 GD/Se        00 GD/sa          0ri  1.00       s0 OD/too
uel anl  10thm)         530    tmo        65 G/te         65 GDte           et   1.00       65 GD/to.
in                      1s5    teo       160 GD/Se       140 GDSea          0t   1.00      160 QD/te
As1at                   129    tea        40 G/tce        60 GD/tea        0a   1.00        60 GD/ton
12nth
4an-93  rFb-33  Har-I)  apr-91  Hay.93   mwA-St   ul-92  Aiq-92  S-3  Oct-92  5wv-SI  tOc-I2 .verage
Ito.. Gem MM5 Isal 1O.20  1S6.S4   123.53  205.53  220.66  226.03  330.37  311.39  216.60  a2U.39  207.47  107.81  286.72
PtMe. Gas 1OD Rett 185.99  195.32  180.81  20A5.1   330.66  226.25  231.66  215.31  217.75  213.76  20.45  188.25  203.55
Rtg. Gee  05 Italy                                                                                                         196.21
eg. Gas 10  aett  177.39  184.9S  190.8  197.40  313.55  222.35  207.02   02.11  206.70  204.76  201.96  180.37  199.10
RapUths 103  taly  163.92  161.43  159.97  165.40  174.98  187.30  103.09  176.39  177.23  100.90  173.37  164.31  172.42
110 NediteSnuaais  176.00  176.00  100.71  3*2.50  163.50  169.50  171.25  166.38  192.63  301.0S  177.50  175.00  179.49
Jet Ber. F05 ttaly X17.06  178.04  100.34  178.49  179.76  195.47  195.42  184.3   192.00  201.27  187.82  16o.s1  185.79
G"  Oil J     taly  163.46  163.79   6S.73  172.70  170.92  101.55  176.63  1SS.71  179.74  108.9S  175.87  168.69  172.01
fuel 01l 105 :taly  S. 97   67.2    70.n   n7.23   71.29    6.97   79.95   77.0 5   04.1S   93.32   84.02   69.12   76.23
IC] flamuas  Prima eapatAd to Shahz imeataI ntib   epuiwaetam
1 _aaia  hb ate    *    0.684
AVV       Iant     ISt   %*"I  Upiv.  Iquv. Uquv   Dfa                    R eveue Revenu
Intl Pr       tsc  ITanep    Dist Intl Pr Irtl Pr DMa Pr as 0 of             De  Pr tntl Pr
(8/tI   (/t)  ($/t    ($/t)   (/tI   (GD/tI   WAD/tI tal Pr
PWSAa  au               196     7.0      5.7     4.6      214     147     396    a270            20,592   7.618
Regular Gas             14      6.4      5.6     4.5      201     130      293     212%         107,969  SO o40
G"a 0il                 173      4.4      .6     4.4      169     130      326      97t         107,226 10,40S
am 0.1 (a)              173      6.4     5.6     4.4      189     120    2s5       1949             504      260
Jet Fuel                1a0      6.2     5.5      3.0     200     130      124      309          23.5s9  26,26
Jet  ue  (PO)           106      4.2     5.5      3.0     200      us      234     1709           4,212   2S476
Sooe                    101      6.0     5.5     4.4      197     us       113      049          32.206  38.320
Fuel ail MSle.)          76      5.3     0.0      0.0      02      s6       49      0a9          44.590  S0.896
Fu"e  01i (&uauer)       76      5.3     5.0      0.1      07      6o       e0     1349             160      119
poel Oi (0Oters)         76      5.3     5.0      3.0      90      61       65     10st          34.450  32,S52
1.90                    179    18.0    15.0      6.0      21S     148      160     1os0          24.000  22.913
Abhlt                    60      5.0     5.0      0.0      70      54       40      1213           7,600   6.069
407,970 349.590
weight" averge of 4eemeti prices to IMeO UaGMl veto                                       11O



- 63 -
-a YM
THE HASHEMITE KINgDOM OF JORDAN
ENERG= SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE I_ THE PROJECT FXLE
A. Working Documents
A.1         Working Paper:  Power Subsector:  Financial Reform Issues (May
1993)
A.2         Working Paper:  Environmental Issues in the Energy Sector (June
1993)
A.3         Working Paper:  Institutional Reform and Financial Restructuring
Issues (April 1993)
A.4         Working Paper:  Energy Pricing Issues (May 1993)
A.5         Working Paper:  Energy Conservation - Ir.dustry and Household
Sectors (June 1993)
A.6         Working Paper:  Oil and Gas Subsector (June 1993)
A.7         Working Paper:  The Interconnected Power System (July 1993)
B. Documents Relating to the Project
B.1         Terms of Reference:  Issues and Options for Regulatory Reform of
the Energy Sector and Financial and Organizational Restructuring
of the Power Sector (April 1993)
,B.2        Action Plans for Environmental Protection and Energy Conservation
(August 1993)



- 64 -
ANNEX IX
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JOltDAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CRaDrrS
(As of March 31, 1993)
Fisel                                                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Loan No.           Year      sosTower           Purpose                          (USS Million)
1S Credits and 19 loans have been fully disbursed                      313.57    86.13
Of which SECALs. SALs and Program Loans a)               150.0       0.0
Ln. 2334            84       Jordan      Amman Transport               25.00                  3.90
Ln. 2378            64       Jordan      Education VI                  40.00                  4.67
Ln. 2463            85       Jordan      Multi-Mode Transport II       30.00                  0.43
Ln. 2531            80       Jordan      Health                        13.50                  5.77
Ln. 2587           8S        Jordan      Urban Dev. II                 21.66                  4.84
Ln. 2633            g6       Jordan      Manpower Development          10.20                  2.67
Ln.2064             se       Jordan      Water Supply & Sew.           60.00                  6.33
Ln. 2710           s8        Jordan      Power VI                      27.50                  0.92
Ln. 2841            88       Jordan      Nat'l Urban Dev.              26.40                  18.28
Ln. 2890            88       Jordan      Education VIl                 40.00                  7.19
Ln. 2902            8C       Jordan      Phosphate Mining              31.00                   1.52
Ln. 3106            89       Jordan      Human Res. Dev.               73.00                 44.26
Ln. 3172            90       Jordan      Integrated Phosphate          25.00                 24.99
Ln. 3306            91       Jordan      Emergency Recovery            10.00                  0.19
Ln. 3366            e1       Jordan      Dead Sea Ind. Exp.            15.00                  4.04
Ln. 3568            93       Jordan      Transport III                 35.00                 35.00
Ln. 3574            93       Jordan      Health 11                     20.00                 20.00
TOa                                                     96.73   s8.13          184.0
of which has been repaid                               266.75    11.76
Toal now held by Bank and IDA                           e8sQs    74.38
Amount sod                                11.53
of which repaid                          11.53
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTPENTS
(As of March 31, 1993)
Loan    Equity        Total
Date          Bofrower                    Type of Business                        (USS million)
1974          Jordan Ceramic Ind. Co.     Structural clay products       1.60     0.23          1.83
1975178/81182  Jordan Fertilizer Ind.Co.  Phosphatic tettilizer         79.48     8.75         88.23
1979185       Jordan Ume and Sodicate     Building  materials            2.50     1.35          3.85
1982          Jordan Leasing Co. Ltd.     Leasing                        0.00     0.29          0.29
1987J91       Al-Hikma Pharmnaceuticals   Mfg. of drugs & med.           2.19     2.02          4.21
1979          JSC                         Securities Mkt. Fin.           0.00     0.67          0.67
Total Comminments                                         85.77    13.31        99.08
Less: Total Commmitments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled       84.97    11.28         96.25
Tota Commitments now held by IFC                          0.80      2.03         2.83
a) Approved during or after FY8o



