Document of
The World Bank
FOR O:FFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18069
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEM:ITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
i(Loan 3651-JO)
June 25, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. 'Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Jordanian Dinar (JD) = 1000 fils
Exchange Rates (JDIUS$)
Bank Fiscal Year            Rate
1993                        0.692
1994                        0.699
1995                        0.694
1996                        0.708
1997                        0.709
1998 (1st 6 months)         0.709
Weights and Measures
Gwh (Gigawatt hour)                -      million kilowatt hours
km (kilometers)                           0.62 miles
kV (kilovolt)                      -      1,000 volts
kWh (kilowatt hour)                -      860,42 kcal
MVA (megavolt-ampere)              -      1,000 kVa
MVAR (megavolt-ampere-reactive)   -       1,000 kVAR
MW (mnegawatt)                     -      1,000 kW
g (gram)                           -      0.0022 pounds (Ibs)
Fiscal Year
Government of The Hashemite Kingdom of Jo:rdan
January 1 - December 31
Fiscal Year
The World Bank
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:             Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:           Inder Sud
Sector Chief:               Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Team Leader:           Deane Jordan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASAL                       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BOP                        Balance of Payments
CBJ                        Central Bank of Jordan
DSCR                       Debt Service Coverage Ratio
ESAL                       Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
ESAP                       Energy Sector Adjustment Program
GDP                        Gross Domrestic Program
GST                        Gross Sales Tax
ICB                        International Competitive Bidding
IDECO                      Irbid District Electricity Company
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
ITPAL                      Industry anLd Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
JEA                        Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO                      Jordan Electric Power Company
JIC                        Jordan Investment Company
JPRC                       Jordan Petroleum Refining Company
LRMC                       Long Run Marginal Cost
LSP                        Letter of Sector Policy
MEMR                       Ministry oi' Energy and Mineral Resources
MOP                        Ministry of Planning
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
NRA                        Natural Resources Authority
OECF                       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCR                        Project Completion Report
SBA                        Stand-By Arrangement
SCF                        Standard Cubic Feet
SFR                        Self-Financing Ratio
SOE                        Statement of Expenditures
USAID                      United Stales Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.                              '      _.



IMPEMENTATICIN COM1PLETIO REPORT
3E HAINGDOM OE JORDAN
(Lan 3651J0)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Background .................................1
B.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..................................3
C. Achievement of Objectives .................................5
Macroeconomic Framework ..................................5
Energy Pricing ....6............................6
Energy Sector Restructuring ..................................7
Environmental Protection ................................9
Energy Conservation ................................9
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................                                9
E. Project Sustainability ................................                                              12
F. Bank Performance .................................                                                  13
G. Borrower Performance ................................                                               15
H. Cofinancier performance ................................                                            15
I.  Consultant Performance .................................. 5
J. Assessment of Outcome ................................                                              16
K. Future Operation .................................                                                  16
L. KeyL essonsLearned ................................                                                  17



STATISTICAL TABLES: .....................................................................................18
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ................................                          19
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits and Sector Studies .................... ............ 20
Table 3:   Project Timetable ................................ 21
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements ............................                                 21
Table 5:   Project Financing ............................                                  21
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .           ............................ 22
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants ............................ 23
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................ 24
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions ............................                           25
A]PPENDICES:
Ajppendix 1:   Borrower Contribution to ICR
Appendix 2:   Cofinancier Contribution to ICR
Appendix 3:   Actual and Projected Financial Statistics for the Power Subsector
Appendix 4:   Performance Indicators for NEPCO
Appendix 5:   Government Policy Statement for the Power Subsector



MPLEMENTATIONCOMNPLETION REPORI
THE HASMIMTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOUt ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loalk 3651-JO)
BEEFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is for the Energy Sector Adjustment
Loan (Loan 3651-JO), approved by the Board on October 7, 1993 in the amount of US$80
million equivalent to The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. It became effective on December 16,
1993. The ESAL was a three-tranche operation. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness,
was fully disbursed by February 18, 1994; the second tranche was released on May 14, 1996 and
disbursed by May 23, 1996, and the third tranche was released on December 9, 1997 and was
fully disbursed on December 11, 1997. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan in a similar amount and on a similar
basis. The ESAL was also assisted by an associated Japanese Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) Grant of JPY 131.7 million (about US$1.0 million equivalent). The
Closing Date of the Bank loan was December 31, 1997. The Closing Date of the OECF loan was
December 20, 1997.
Preparation of this ICR began following meetings in Washington in October 1997
between officials of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Bank that were convened to
discuss issues and actions related to the comp]letion of the ESAL. The ICR was prepared by
Mr. Deane Jordan, Principal Operations Officer (MNSPF), with the assistance of Ms. Carmen
Niethammer (Consultant). Mr. Jordan was also the Task Team Leader of the ESAL since
appraisal in April 1993. The ICR is based on material in the project files, including the
supervision reports throughout the life of the project. Comments on the draft ICR were invited
and received from several Bank staff members who had been associated with the ESAL in
various capacities throughout its history. The draft ICR was also reviewed in the Bank at a
meeting chaired by Mr. Inder Sud, Country Director (MNCMS), in May 1998. Subsequently, the
draft ICR was discussed with the Borrower by a Bank mission to Jordan in June 1998. Both the
Borrower and OECF have provided comments that are included as Appendices I and 2 to this
report respectively.



IMPLEMENTATIODN COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3651-JO)
PARTI
EVALUATION          RY
A. Background
1.    In the 1980s, the Jordanian economy began-to falter and stagnate, mirroring the drop in
oil prices and incomes of neighboring oil-producing countries, to which its economy was closely
tied. In 1989, the Government launched a comprehensive macroeconomic adjustment program
to begin the process of redressing macroeconomic imbalances, reducing distortions in the trade
regime, and restoring economic growth. To complement the reforms at the macroeconomic
policy level, the Government also initiated major reform programs in the energy and agriculture
sectors with Bank support, including the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL).
2.    The ESAL was appraised in April 1993 and approved by the Board on October 7, 1993.
It became effective on December 16, 1993 and closed on December 31, 1997. It was structured as
a three-tranche operation in order to achieve both balance of payments (BOP) objectives, which
were then urgent, and sector reform objectives. It marked the beginning of a transformation
process in the Jordanian energy sector from a largely public-sector-led development strategy that
had been fully consistent with Bank policy for the sector prior to 1993, to a development strategy
relying much more heavily on private sector initiative and competitive market forces, where the
role of govermuent is largely limited to sector planning and oversight including the management
of a regulatory environment that will promote efficient private sector decisions.
3.    The ESAL was co-financed by Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF).
The loans from Japan and the Bank were eachl $80 million equivalent and were disbursed in three
separate tranches after the fulfillment by the Jordanian authorities of agreed reform measures. In
addition, Japan also provided critical support for the implementation of the ESAL through the
provision of a PHRD Grant of Japanese 'Yen (JPY) 131.7 million (about US$1.0 million
equivalent). The Grant provided critical support for the implementation of the ESAL. It
underpinned the ESAL reforms by financin;g consulting services and technical assistance for
studies on: (i) the financial and institutional restructuring of the energy sector; (ii) the electricity
tariff structure and rate design; (iii) the legislative and regulatory framework for the power
sector; and (iv) environmental guidelines for ithe energy sector. It also helped to finance training
programs for Jordanian officials in utility regulation. The Grant was executed satisfactorily by
the Jordanian authorities.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The ESAL objectives covered: (a) Energy Pricing - to rationalize prices and improve
sector finances; (b) Sector Restructuring - to improve the institutional and legislative
framework for: (i) corporate commercial operations in the power and oil/gas subsectors; (ii)



-ii-
separate and transparent regulation of the power subsector; (iii) competition among power
entitiies; (iv) private sector investment and participation in power generation and distribution; and
(v) sector policy formulation and planning; (c) Environmental Protection - to improve
environmental guidelines/regulations for the energy sector and designate a monitoring and
enforcement authority; and (d) Energy Conservation - to improve electricity demand
management, power plant efficiency, and end-use energy conservation.
5.    The ESAL objectives remained consistent with Bank policy after 1993 for the energy
sector and for the power subsector in particular, and contributed to the creation of a policy and
instilutional framework designed to attract and facilitate private sector investment and operations
in both the electric power and oil and gas sectors.
C. ALchievement of Objectives
6.    This ICR concludes that the ESAL's development objectives were largely achieved and
are likely to be sustainable.
Macroeconomnc Framework:
7.    The macroeconomic objectives were to a large extent achieved.  Jordan's overall
macroeconomic performance has been favorable. GDP growth is under pressure due to an
unceirtain regional investment climate and the slow-down in global markets. Nevertheless, the
prudent monetary and fiscal stance pursued diligently during the last years is paying off. The
macroeconomic situation can be characterized as stablilized by now as Jordan has entered the
rank; of moderately indebted countries, the government budget including grants is in surplus,
and the balance of payments financing gap, previously anticipated to linger until 1999, has been
closed two years earlier.
Energy Pricing:
8.    The energy pricing objectives and targets were substantially achieved.  Significant
adjustments in electricity tariffs in 1993 and 1996 have largely restored the financial viability of
the power companies. The prices of individual petroleum products and natural gas were also
adjusted in 1993 and 1996 to bring them generally into line with import parity prices. More
recently, further adjustments to two petroleum product prices were made in November 1997.
The specified pricing ratio between natural gas and its fuel-oil equivalent has been maintained.
Energ Sector Restructuring:
9.    The Electricity Subsector. The institutional restructuring objectives of the ESAL were
substantially achieved. JEA, the dominant operating utility and owner of Jordan's generation
plants, the transmission grid, and also some distribution assets, was incorporated under Jordanian
company law as NEPCO in conformity with the ESAL objectives. NEPCO, however, has
dominated the sector in the past in part through its ownership of a significant number of shares of
Jordan's other two distribution utilities - JEPCO and IDECO. As a step towards unbundling of
the power subsector, NEPCO's shares in JEPCO and IDECO have been transferred to the Jordan
Investment Corporation (JIC), which is now taking steps to sell the JEPCO shares to the private
sector. The Government is also taking steps to restructure NEPCO into at least three separate



-111-
companies during 1998, including: (a) one or more companies to own and operate the power
generation plants; (b) one or more companiLes to own and operate the distribution assets; and (c)
one company to own and operate the transmission grid. The Government plans to seek private
sector investment and ownership for the generation and distribution companies. The Bank is
currently providing technical assistance to the Government for the privatization of the power
generation plants.
10.   In conformity with the ESAL objectives, the Jordanian Parliament enacted a new
General Electricity Law in 1996 that enables private sector investment in generation and
distribution and establishes the concept of separate regulation. In 1997, the Government
submitted an Amended General Electricity :Law to Parliament that expands upon and deepens the
1996 legislation, and includes: (a) provisions endowing the Regulatory Commission with
authority to determine and set prices and giving it a significant role in the award and supervision
of licenses; (b) the express commitment to the principle that sector operators have the
opportunity to recover a reasonable return on their investments; and (c) provisions endowing the
Regulatory Commission with adequate safeguards of its independence.
11.   The Oil and Gas Subsector. The, Government established an autonomous National
Petroleum Company (NPC) under Jordanian company law in conformity with the ESAL
objectives to take over the oil and gas exploration and production assets of the Natural Resources
Authority (NRA), including a producing natural gas field at Risha, and to operate them on a
commercial basis. Also, the Government is taking steps to transfer NPC's drilling operations to
a separate drilling company during 1998. The Bank is currently providing technical assistance to
the Government for the privatization of NPC. Adequate progress has also been made to improve
the efficiency of NRA's residual activities by implementing organizational changes and various
cost reducing and revenue-enhancement measures, although the effectiveness of the
reorganization has still to be determined over time through acquired experience.
12.   Strengthening of MEMR. MEMR has been reorganized in conformity with the ESAL
objectives to strengthen its capacity to canry out and manage the more limited set of functions
and powers accorded it under the Amended General Electricity Law, although the effectiveness
of the reorganization has still to be determined over time through acquired experience.
Environmental Protection:
13.   The environmental protection objecltives were partially achieved. In conformity with the
ESAL objectives, the Government enacted an Environmental Protection Law that established a
national environmental protection agency - the General Corporation for Environment Protection
(GCEP). An environmental unit was also established in MEMR, but has not yet become fully
effective. In addition, a comprehensive consulting study on environmental guidelines for energy
sector operations has rec6ntly been completed. The study's recommendations are being
considered by GCEP but have not yet been implemented. MEMR is coordinating with OCEP to
put the recommendations into effect.
Energy Conservation:
14.   The energy conservation objectives were partially achieved. In the power subsector, an
electricity tariff rate design study has been carried out with the assistance of international



-iv-
consultants to formulate measures to improve demand-side management and the efficiency of
resource use. The study's recommendations have been evaluated by the Government, in
consultation with the power companies, but have still to be implemented. Since the new
Regulatory Commission is expected to be operational soon, the recommendations have been
tabled for consideration and implementation by the Commissiion following its start-up of
operations. The recommendations cover the increased use of maximum demand charges, time-
of:use tariffs, and interruptible contracts, and also a further refinement of the existing life-line
tariffs for low income consumers, but they have still to be implemented. The new Regulatory
Commission will assume responsibility for their implementation when it becomes operational.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The pace of project implementation was slower than estimated at appraisal. The third
tranche was released about two and a half years later than envisaged at appraisal. The original
loan Closing Date of June 30, 1996 was postponed three times, for a total of 18 months, to
December 31, 1997.
1 6.   During project preparation and appraisal, a major focus of the both the Government and
the Bank was on the critical need for the ESAL's balance of payments support. The urgency of
the resource transfer objective created a strong impetus both within the Govermnent and the
Bank to accelerate the preparation and appraisal of the operation. This same period witnessed
the emergence of new Bank policies on energy sector lending. These two factors combined to
contribute to a project design that, while adequately reflecting a rational reform agenda for the
Jordanian energy sector, also led to an imprecise definition of the approach that should be taken
towards the achievement of some of the ESAL's institutional reform objectives, and also to the
Government's formal adoption of the ESAL agenda before the agenda had achieved full
ownership among all of the concerned Jordanian authorities. This weakness in precision and in
borrower ownership contributed to a lengthy and sometimes difficult dialogue during
implementation.  Stakeholder commitment to the reforms also waxed and waned during
inmplementation, particularly because of frequent Cabinet reshuffles which also delayed decision-
making.
1,'.   At appraisal, it was envisaged that a central ESAL Implementation Team would be
established with authority to manage the ESAL reforms, and an understanding to this effect was
reached during negotiations. However, it was never fully constituted. It is likely that the pace of
implementation and the adoption of the ESAL reforms would have proceeded more smoothly
and at a faster pace had the Government established a central and more impartial authority to
implement the ESAL reforms.
1 8.   Energy pricing adjustments were particularly difficult for the Government, given the
socio-political sensitivity of price increases, and required lengthy deliberations among decision-
makers. During the implementation of the ESAL, the Middle East Peace Process significantly
raised economic expectations among the populace, and the Government perceived that these
expectations were not being fully met. Ultimately, however, the Government implemented the
pricing adjustments and the ESAL targets were largely achieved.
19).  The complexity of the institutional reforms and of the alternative modalities on which
decisions had to be made also led to delays. The learning curve was long and steep, and much



more time was required than estimated at appraisal for the Jordanian authorities to study and
achieve consensus on the specific reform measures, such as the modalities of the regulatory
framework and the unbundling of the power sector. There was also an unanticipated need for
further in-depth study of the legislative framework for the electricity sector.
E. Project Sustainability
20.   Sustainability of the project and ihe major reforms is evaluated as "likely." Energy
prices have been adjusted to international levels and the financial health of the power sector
enterprises has been restored. The incorporation of NEPCO under Jordanian private sector
company law and other important institutional reforms have already been enshrined in law, and
any reversals of the reforms are considered highly unlikely. The Amended Electricity Law under
consideration by Parliament will establish an independent and transparent Regulatory
Commission, and the Government is preparing a proposed Independent Power Producer (JPP)
Project that will help to further cement the E,SAL reforms.
21.   In the oil and gas sector, the estalblishment of the National Petroleum Company as a
profit-making corporation under the Companies Law should help to ensure that improved
economic efficiency in the Government's domestic exploration and production activities will be
maintained.
22.   In sum, although substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
Government's energy sector reform program, a number of key steps remain to be completed.
The Government is continuing to implement the reform program in the right direction. Although
unlikely, potential reversals of the reforms still carry material risks. The success of the energy
sector reform agenda would be severely jeopardized if electricity tariff-setting continues as in the
past to be a politically-charged and influenced function. It is therefore essential for the
sustainability of the reform program that Parliament enacts the Amended Electricity Law as
currently drafted, and that operational establishment of the Regulatory Commission is completed
fully and soon, complete with clear and precise tariff-setting mechanisms. In this regard, MEMR
has met on several occasions with the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Mineral
Resources, and has gained its endorsement of the amended provisions in the proposed Law. The
Amended Electricity Law is now on the agenda for the next session of Parliament.
F. Bank Performance
23.   Overall, Bank performance is rateid as satisfactory. During project identification, the
Bank had an open and constructive dialogue with the Government and the energy sector
institutions. Bank missions were staffed appropriately with energy sector expertise in
institutional restructuring, engineering, and financial and economic analysis.
24.     During  project supervision, well-staffed  annual supervision  missions were
supplemented with small technical discussion missions in the intervening periods. Within the
Bank, both pre- and post-supervision issues meetings were convened at the level of regional
management when considered necessary. The Bank's project supervision missions performed
satisfactorily in supervising the technical and financial aspects of the ESAL and in bringing
issues to the attention of the Government and Bank management at the highest levels. The Bank
also liaised closely with the OECF.



-vi-
G. Borrower Performance
2:5.   The performance of the Government is rated as satisfactory in both project preparation
and implementation. During project preparation, the Government collaborated closely with the
Bank in carrying out an Energy Sector Study in 1989 that underpinned the ESAL, and also
fatcilitated an open and constructive dialogue with the Bank on macroeconomic and sector reform
issues and options. During implementation, the Government managed the technical assistance
required for the ESAL reforms effectively, and achieved substantial progress in implementing
thke comprehensive institutional restructurings under the ESAL.
H[. Assessment of Outcome
26.   The ESAL's outcome is rated as satisfactory. The ESAL has achieved most of its major
objectives and is expected to achieve satisfactory development results with only a few
shortcomings.
L Future Operation
27.   The Government has provided the Bank with a Policy Statement for power sector reform
approved by the Jordanian Cabinet on October 4, 1997. The Policy Statement reaffirms the
Government's commitment to the ESAL objectives and longer-term vision for the electricity
sector, including pricing policies for electricity and petroleum products that will reflect full
economic prices and enable investors to earn a reasonable rate of return, the establishment of an
independent and transparent regulatory commission, the unbundling of the electricity sector, and
the attraction and promotion of private sector investment. The Government has also requested
the Bank to provide a partial risk guarantee in support of the proposed IPP Project.
28.   The separation of policy making, sector regulation, and day-to-day sector operations
should raise the credibility of the sector among the private sector and its attractiveness as a place
to invest. Early indications are that Jordan's strategy of pursuing sector reforms, including the
incorporation of public utilities and independent regulation, has already sent positive signals to
the private sector. After independent regulation has been fully established, the profile of
corporate governance objectives in electricity pricing decisions should be raised significantly
relative to socio-political objectives.
J. Key Lessons Learned
29>. The presence of strong, up-front borrower ownership to the reform agenda is of major
importance for effective implementation.
30.   Institutional arrangements need to be clearly defined and bought into by appraisal.
31.   Single tranche adjustment operations may be more effective lending instruments for
adjustment operations involving institutional reforms.
32.   The availability of concurrent technical assistance can be critical to the effective
irtplementation of sector adjustment operations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loanm 3651-JO)
I-ART I
PROJECT IMPLEM NTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    In the 1980s, the Jordanian economy began to falter and stagnate, mirroring the drop in
oil prices and incomes of neighboring oil-producing countries, to which its economy was closely
tied.  The stagnating economy also reflected an economic policy orientation that was
protectionist and interventionist. Combined with Jordan's limited resource base, this policy
stance ultimately led to a narrow economic structure and persistent internal and external
imbalances, including a large debt overhang (debt/GDP ratio of 160% in 1989).
2.    In 1989, the Govermnent launched a comprehensive macroeconomic adjustment
program to begin the process of redressing niacroeconomic imbalances, reducing distortions in
the trade regime, and restoring economic growth. It was supported by an IMF Stand-By
Arrangement, a Bank-assisted Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (No. 3142-JO), and a
Paris Club debt rescheduling. To complement the reforms at the macroeconomic policy level,
the Government also initiated measures to: (a) address supply-side constraints to growth at the
sector-level, including their effects on recurTent macroeconomic and fiscal balances; and (b)
diversify the economy and its export markets in an outward-oriented and private-sector-led
approach. Its objectives were to create an enabling environment for the business sector,
including an appropriate institutional framework and policies and incentives for delivering
needed physical and social infrastructure. Included in the support provided by the Bank were
two sector adjustment operations, one in the energy sector and one in the agriculture sector.
These two operations were seen as important vehicles both for providing adequate and timely
support to meet Jordan's urgent balance of payments requirements, while also supporting
critically needed sector reforms. During the implementation period of the ESAL, the Bank
provided additional support for macroeconomtic and financial sector reforms through two single-
tranche Economic Reform and Adjustment Loans (ERDL I and ERDL II of October 1995 and
December 1996, respectively).
3.    The formulation of the Government's Energy Sector Adjustment Program, and of a
proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in support of the Program, first arose in the
context of an Energy Sector Study in 1989 (Report No. 7984-JO of February 7, 1990). The
Study was carried out as a collaborative G,overnment-Bank effort. The formulation of the
Program also benefited from the knowledge and experience gained through a previous sector
study carried out in 1983 and through seven previous Bank-supported operations since 1973,
which had delivered project support for ins1titution-building and the physical development of
most energy subsectors, including electric power, oil and gas, renewable energy and energy
conservation. The Performance Audit Reporits issued by the Operations Evaluation Department



-2-
(0ED) on four Bank operations approved since 1980, but before the ESAL, rated each of their
outcomes as satisfactory overall.
4.    The Energy Sector Study sought to help refine the Government's energy sector strategy
in light of severe financial imbalances that were imposed principally by a major devaluation of
the Jordanian Dinar in 1988/89, and which were further exacerbated by the economic downturn
and growing financial and institutional distortions in the energy sector. The devaluation
prevented the Jordanian power sector, which previously enjoyed satisfactory financial
performance, from achieving its financial objectives, since most of the outstanding loans in the
power sector were denominated in US dollars at floating interest rates. The devaluation
significantly raised the debt service burdens of the country's three power sector enterprises in
terms of local currency, while simultaneously lowering domestic prices of both petroleum
products and electricity in terms of the foreign currency required to service the debt. Increases
in interest rates, induced by the macroeconomic reforms, further exacerbated the debt service
burdens. These developments, combined with a reluctance on the part of the Government to
raise consumer prices for petroleum products and electricity to levels that would reflect the real
costs of providing service, led to further deterioration in the financial health of the energy sector
enterprises.
5.    Growing concern within the Government with this deterioration, combined with an
emerging consensus within the Government and the Bank on the findings and recommendations
of the Sector Study, led to the conclusion that early adjustment action was needed in four main
areas: (a) increases in electricity prices and rationalization of the petroleum product pricing
structure in order to restore economic pricing levels and the financial health of the energy sector
enterprises; (b) financial restructuring measures to enable energy enterprises to cope with their
highly increased debt servicing burden in local currency on account of the foreign currency debt;
(c) a restructuring of energy sector institutions and government oversight functions in order to
respond to changing sector problems; and (d) rationalization of sector investment programs.
6.    An identification mission for the ESAL visited Jordan in May and June 1990 but
preparation work, and the macroeconomic adjustment process, was subsequently interrupted by
the Gulf crisis in 1990/91. Project preparation did not resume until 1992, by which time drafts of
a new Bank policy paper on the Bank's role in the electric power sector had called attention to
the weak and deteriorating finances of power utilities across sixty developing countries, and in
essence issued a call to action for sector reform, particularly in the areas of corporate governance
and sector regulation. The sector reform lessons highlighted in the Bank policy paper were
incorporated into the design of the ESAL, which was also influenced by the special attention that
was being given by the Bank in 1992 and 1993 to financial covenant compliance in portfolio
management. A Bank Task Force on portfolio management, which culminated in the
Wapenhans Report, brought to attention the high-level of non-compliance with financial
covenants in revenue-earning operations in public sector enterprises.  Power sectors in
developing countries around the world were singled out for particularly lamentable performance
and, by implication, emphasized the need for early action on sector reforms.
7.    The ESAL was appraised in April 1993 and approved by the Board on October 7, 1993.
It became effective on December 16, 1993 and closed on December 31, 1997. The ESAL was
cofinanced by Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF). The loans from Japan and
the Bank were each $80 million equivalent and were disbursed in three separate tranches after the



-3-
fulfillment by the Jordanian authorities of agreed reform measures. In addition, Japan also
provided critical support for the implementation of the ESAL through the provision of a PHRD
Grant of Japanese Yen (JPY) 131.7 million (about US$1.0 million equivalent). The Grant
underpinned the ESAL reforms by financing consulting services and technical assistance for
studies on: (i) the fnancial and institutional restructuring of the energy sector; (ii) the electricity
tariff structure and rate design; (iii) the legislative and regulatory framework for the power
subsector; and (iv) the environmental guidelines for the energy sector. It also helped to finance
training programs for Jordanian officials in utility regulation. The Grant has been executed
satisfactorily by the Jordanian authorities.
8.     The ESAL marked the beginning of a transformation process in the Jordanian energy
sector from a largely public-sector-led development strategy that had been fully consistent with
Bank policy for the sector prior to 1993, to a development strategy relying much more heavily on
private sector initiative and competitive market forces, where the role of government is largely
limited to sector planning and oversight including the management of a regulatory environment
that will promote efficient private sector decisions.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
9.     The development objectives of the Government's Energy Sector Adjustment Program,
which the Government undertook to substatntially complete during the implementation of the
ESAL, were expressed in a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), dated August 16, 1993. The ESAL
tranche release actions that were expected to be achieved in pursuit of these objectives were
outlined in a Policy and Institutional Actions Matrix attached to the LSP. In addition, the
specific legal requirements for tranche release were given in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Sections A and B, dated November 24, 1993. A summary of the Matrix in a logical framework
format is as follows:
Macroeconomic Objective:   Help reduce supply-side constraints contributing to chronic
macroeconomic fiscal and balance of payment imbalances by
improving the enabling environment for efficient, sustainable growth
and private sector development in the energy sector.
Development Objectives:     l. Energy Pricing: Rationalize prices and improve sector fnances;
2. Sector Restructuring: Improve the institutional and legislative
framework for: (a) coxporate commercial operations in the power and
oil/gas subsectors; (b) separate and transparent regulation of the
power subsector; (c) competition among power entities; (d) private
sector investment and participation in power generation and
distribution; arnd (e) sector policy formulation and planning;
3. Environmental Protection: Improve environmental
guidelines/regulations for the energy sector and designate a
monitoring and enforcement authority; and
4. Energy Conservation: Improve electricity demand management,
power plant efficiency, and end-use energy conservation.



-4-
Tranche Release Criteria (Key Indicators of Development Outcome/Impact):
1. Energy Pricing:          1.1 Electricity tariffs cover economic costs (LRMC) and enable
each utility to satisfy specified financial targets (see below);
1.2 Each power utility meets or exceeds specified financial targets
(Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.50 and Self-Financing Ratio of
35%).
1.3 Prices of individual petroleum products cover their economic
prices (as estimated in accordance with agreed formula); and
1.4 The price of natural gas (for electricity) covers 85% of the fuel-
oil equivalent price.
2. Sector Restructuring:    2.1 Power Subsector: (i) Incorporation of the Jordan Electricity
Authority (JEA) under the Company Law; (ii) Divestiture by JEA of
its shareholdings in the Jordan Electric Power Company (JEPCO)
and the Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO); (iii)
Submission to Parliament of a new Electricity Law that enables
private investment in generation and distribution and the
establishment of a separate and transparent regulatory authority; (iv)
Implementation of Electricity By-laws designed to promote
transparency and autonomy in the functions and operations of the
regulatory authority, including tariff setting;
2.2 Oil/Gas Subsector: Establishment of an oil/gas company under
the Company Law to take over the commercial oil and gas activities
of the public sector; and
2.3 Public Sector Entities: Satisfactory progress in reorganizing the
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) and the Natural
Resources Authority (NRA).
3. Environmental            3.1 Satisfactory progress in achieving objectives, including
Protection:                 designation of a competent environmental authority.
4. Energy ConservaIon:      4.1 Adoption by JEA of agreed recommendations of an electricity
tariff structure study to improve electricity demand management.
10.    The ESAL was structured as a three-tranche operation in order to achieve both balance
of payments (BOP) objectives, which were then urgent, and sector reform objectives. In addition
to the urgency of the BOP objectives, there were also immediate sector reform actions required
to arrest the financial hemorrhaging of the sector. Extending the ESAL over three tranches also
accommodated the need for a prior diagnostic, institutional and financial restructuring study that
would flesh out the mechanisms for achieving institutional reforms necessary to restructure,
comrmercialize and corporatize sector enterprises, increase the sector's openness to private sector
participation and investment, and ensure independence, transparency and consistency in sector
regulation. Although the LSP outlined the Government's long-term private sector development
objectives and vision for the sector, the specification and analysis of the alternative modalities
for achieving efficient, sustainable sector development required much further prior diagnostic
work that was beyond the scope of, and not fully anticipated by, the 1989 Energy Sector Study
on Nvhich the ESAL was first founded. Completion of the requisite diagnostic work, and
agreement on the restructuring actions to follow, were made conditions for second tranche



release, while the linplementation of the agreed restructuring actions that subsequently could be
completed within a reasonable period of timne was made a condition for third tranche release.
11.   Agreement was reached prior to second tranche release on the detailed institutional
restructuring actions that were to be implemented prior to third tranche release. These actions
were described in a Government letter to thle Bank dated April 1, 1997, and form the basis for the
monitorable indicators for sector restructuring given above.
12.   The ESAL objectives remained consistent with Bank policy after 1993 for the energy
sector and for the power subsector in particular, and contributed to the creation of a policy and
institutional framework designed to attract and facilitate private sector investment and operations
in both the electric power and oil and gas sectors.
C. Achievement of Objectives
13.   Progress towards the achievement of the ESAL's development objectives was measured
against the tranche release criteria described above and which serve as indicators of development
outcome and impact. This ICR concludes that the ESAL's development objectives were largely
achieved and are likely to be sustainable.
Macroeconomic Framework:
14.   The macroeconomic objectives were to a large extent achieved.  Jordan's overall
macroeconomic performance has been favorable. Despite a difficult external environment in
recent years, overall economic performance has remained strong. Jordan met all of the
performance criteria of a recent IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF). GDP growth in 1997 is
estimated at 5 percent, slightly lower than in the previous three years.' The average annual rate
of inflation has declined to 3 percent for 1997, from 6.5 percent in 1996. The Jordanian
authorities have pursued a very tight monetary policy, of which the central objective has been the
strengthening of the foreign reserves position in order to support a stable nominal JD/US$ rate.
Official foreign exchange reserves reached about US$1.7 billion as of end-1997, representing
over 5 months of imports.
15.   In recent years, the Government has pursued a wide-ranging structural reform agenda
with support from IMF and Bank macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment operations. Beyond
the reform of the subsidy system and introduction of new safety nets, the reforms encompassed
additional steps to improve the General Sales Tax (GST) administration, further regulatory
measures in the financial sector aimed at strengthening the banking system and the capital
market, steps to prepare for privatization, reduction of the maximum tariff rate from 50 to 40
percent, elimination or reduction of tarifFs on imported capital goods, and new measures for
trade facilitation. Jordan also pursued partnership negotiations with the European Union (EU)
and signed an Association Agreement in November 1997 that aims to eliminate duties on goods
imported from the EU by year 2010.
16.   GDP growth is under pressure due to an uncertain regional investment climate and the
slow-down in global markets. Nevertheless, the prudent monetary and fiscal stance pursued
' National accounts data for 1996-97 are likely to be revised.



-6-
diligently during the last years is paying off. The macroeconomic situation can be characterized
as stablilized by now as Jordan has entered the ranks of moderately indebted countries, the
government budget including grants is in surplus, and the balance of payments financing gap,
previously anticipated to linger until 1999, has been closed two years earlier.
Energy Pricing:
17.   The energy pricing objectives and targets were substantially achieved. The ultimate
pricing targets called for power tariffs to be adjusted sufficiently, by third tranche release, to
ensure their full coverage of long run marginal cost (LRMC), and to enable the three power
companies (Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA), now incorporated under the Companies Law as
the National Electric Power Company (NEPCO); Jordan Electric Power Company (JEPCO); and
Irbid District Electric Power Company (IDECO)) to achieve a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5
times and a self-financing ratio of 35 percent, all calculated in accordance with a methodology
based on a forward-looking projection of one year. In addition, the prices of individual petroleum
products were to be raised to, and maintained at, a level representing their economic prices, as
cal]culated on the basis of agreed import parity formulae, and in respect of the price of natural gas
(for electricity generation), at 85 percent of the price of its fuel-oil equivalent.
18.   The electricity pricing objectives were two-fold:  coverage of economic costs and
satisfaction of commercial goals, of which commercialization Was the primary objective. The
economic pricing criteria (LRMC) were consistent with the economic policy reform objectives
of the ESAL and were viewed as the first step towards commercial pricing. The LRMC target
was essentially a floor price, to ensure efficiency in resource use, and was also a concept that
was well understood and accepted in Jordan.
19,   Significant adjustrnents in electricity tariffs in 1993 and 1996 have largely restored the
financial viability of the power companies. The weighted average electricity tariff rose from
about 32.3 fils/kWh sold (4.7 US cents/kWh sold equivalent) in 1991 to about 41.6 fils/kWh sold
(5.9 US cents/kWh sold equivalent) in 1997. At the retail distribution level, JEPCO's average
tariff in 1997 was about 43.3 fils/kWh sold (6.1 US cents/kWh sold equivalent). IDECO's
average tariff in 1997 was lower at 37.4 fils/kWh sold (5.3 US cents/kWh sold equivalent), but
its revenue generation is being supplemented by a government subsidy (see para. 20). Current
average tariffs exceed the estimated LRMC of about 41.1 fils/kWh sold (5.8 US cents/kWh sold
equivalent). In 1991, the debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) for the sector was about 0.6 times,
whtile in 1998 it is projected to reach 1.6 times. During the same period, the self financing ratio
(SFR) for the sector rose from a highly negative percentage in 1991 to a projected 40 percent in
1998. In June 1997, a detailed review of the financial position and prospects of the power
companies determined that tariff adjustments implemented in May 1996, prior to second tranche
release, were sufficient to enable the performance of the power companies to satisfy third tranche
release criteria. Appendix 3 provides summary tables of actual and projected financial
performance of the sector and the individual enterprises prior to third tranche release. The
achievement of the financial targets, however, required the fuel-oil input price for electricity
generation to be maintained at a level somewhat below import parity.
20.   Associated with the tariff adjustments was an agreement with the Government to pay a
subsidy to IDECO, an electricity distribution company in a rural area with high distribution
costs, that went into effect January 1, 1997.  The subsidy is required because of the



-7-
Government's policy to maintain uniform tariffs throughout the country. Previously, this
subsidy had been paid by NEPCO, which sells electricity in bulk to IDECO. As part of the
power sector reforms, the responsibility for payment of the subsidy has been transferred from
NEPCO to the Government budget. Payment of the subsidy is current. The Government's stated
policy objective, however, is ultimately to eliminate all energy pricing subsidies.
21.   The prices of individual petroleum products and natural gas were also adjusted in 1993
and 1996 to bring them generally into line with import parity prices. More recently, further
adjustments to two petroleum product prices were made in November 1997. Prior to third
tranche release, however, the Bank allowed a modification to the original pricing formula that, in
the situation of the oil market at the time, reduced the magnitude of the pricing adjustments
required for the release. The specified pricing ratio between natural gas and its fuel-oil
equivalent has been maintained. In this regard, as reflected in the LSP and more recently in a
Jordanian Cabinet resolution of October 4, 1997, the Government intends to continue adjusting
petroleum product and natural gas prices when required to ensure that import parity prices are
maintained. In addition, the Government has recently asked the Bank for assistance in
developing a transparent formula for setting and adjusting consumer prices.
Energy Sector Restructuring:
22.   The institutional restructuring objectives of the ESAL were substantially achieved. The
ESAL required satisfactory progress to be achieved in the implementation of measures included in
the Program to: (a) restructure the power subsector and its regulatory framework; (b) strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) in the setting of policy and the
coordination of energy sector development activities; (c) implement environmental regulations for
the energy sector; (d) reorganize the Government's Natural Resources Authority (NRA); and (e)
improve energy conservation. Prior diagnostic work was carried out prior to second tranche release
in the context of an institutional and financial restructuring study of the energy sector, which was
implemented by an internationally recruited consulting firm.
23.   Electric Power Subsector. The ESAL focused on: (a) commercializing and corporatizing
the power utilities; (b) establishing enabling conditions to allow private sector investment in
power generation and distribution and increased competition in the subsector; and (c)
establishing a transparent legislative and regulatory framework to govern operations of the
power companies including the setting of tariffs. The first two objectives have been substantially
completed and the stage has been set for the third, regarding the regulatory framework, to be
completed in the near future.
24.   As noted above, JEA, the dominant operating utility and owner of Jordan's generation
plants, the transmission grid, and also some distribution assets, was incorporated under Jordanian
company law as NEPCO in conformity with the ESAL objectives. The other two utilities -
JEPCO and IDECO - were originally incorporated under Jordanian company law in about 1962
and were given 50-year concession agreeiments for electricity distribution. NEPCO, however,
has dominated the sector in the past in part through its ownership of a significant number of
shares of these other utilities. As a step towards unbundling of the power subsector, NEPCO's
shares in JEPCO and IDECO were transferred effective August 20, 1997, to the Jordan
Investment Corporation (JIC), which is now taking steps to sell the JEPCO shares to the private
sector.



-8-
25.   Subsequently, in October 1997, the Jordanian Cabinet decided to restructure NEPCO
into at least three separate companies during 1998, including: (a) one or more companies to own
and operate the power generation plants; (b) one or more companies to own and operate the
distribution assets; and (c) one company to own and operate the transmission grid. These new
companies have now been registered under the Companies Law. The Govermment's stated
intention is to seek private sector investment and ownership for the generation and distribution
companies, while ownership of the transmission company, including the electricity dispatch
center, will be held by the public sector. The Bank is currently providing technical assistance to
the Government for the privatization of the power generation plants.
26.   In conformity with the ESAL objectives, the Jordanian Parliament enacted a new
General Electricity Law in 1996 that enables private sector investment in generation and
distribution and establishes a Regulatory Commission and the concept of separate regulation.
Subsequently, in November 1997, after carrying out a further consulting study on regulatory
legislation, the Jordanian Cabinet submitted to Parliament an Amended General Electricity Law
that includes: (a) provisions endowing the Regulatory Commission with authority to determine
and set prices and giving it a significant role in the award and supervision of licenses; (b) the
exjpress commitment to the principle that sector operators have the opportunity to recover a
reaLsonable return on their investments; and (c) provisions endowing the Regulatory Commission
wilth adequate safeguards of its independence, including that: (i) it report to the Prime Minister
rather than the sector Minister; (ii) appointments to the Commission be based on professional
criteria; (iii) members are protected from removal without just cause during their fixed terms;
and (iv) the agency is given adequate financial resources.
27    Oil and Gas Subsector.  In conformity with ESAL objectives, the Government
established an autonomous National Petroleum Company (NPC) under Jordanian company law
to take over and gas exploration and production assets of the Natural Resources Authority
(NRA), including a producing natural gas field at Risha, and to operate them on a commercial
basis. A new mining investment company was also established using NRA resources. Also in
conformity with ESAL objectives, the Jordanian Cabinet decided to transfer NPC's drilling
operations to a separate drilling company during 1998, and the new company has now been
registered under the company law. The Bank is currently providing technical assistance to the
Government for the privatization of NPC. Adequate progress has also been made to improve the
efficiency of NRA's residual activities by implementing organizational changes and various cost
redlucing and revenue-enhancement measures, although the effectiveness of the reorganization
has still to be determined over time through acquired experience.
28.   Strengthening of MEMR. The ESAL led to the separation of the functions of regulation
and sector operations from the MEMR, which previously had been heavily involved in all such
aspects, including the normal ministerial functions of policy making and sector planning. The
Jordanian Cabinet decided in October 1997, after completing prior consulting studies, to
reorganize MEMR to strengthen its capacity to carry out and manage a more limited set of
functions and powers accorded it under the Amended General Electricity Law. MEMR has since
been reorganized in accordance with the proposals agreed prior to second tranche release,
altlhough the effectiveness of the reorganization has still to be determined over time through
acquired experience.



-9-
Environnental Protection:
29.   The environmental protection objectives of the ESAL were partially achieved. In 1995,
the Government enacted an Environmental Protection Law that established a national
environmental protection agency - the General Corporation for Environment Protection (GCEP).
An organizational unit and task forces were established within GCEP to formulate environmental
guidelines and standards and also procedures for environmental impact assessments to further
the sustainable management of natural resources and energy. An environmental unit was also
established in MEMR, but has not yet become fully effective. In addition, a comprehensive
consulting study on environmental guidelines for energy sector operations has recently been
completed, and the study's recommendations are being considered by GCEP. However, the
guidelines have yet to be implemented as en[visaged under the ESAL. MEMR is coordinating
with GCEP to put the recommendations into effect.
Energy Conservation:
30.   The energy conservation objectives of the ESAL were partially achieved. In the power
subsector, an electricity tariff rate design study has been carried out with the assistance of
international consultants to formulate measures to improve demand-side management and the
efficiency of resource use.  The study's recommendations have been evaluated by the
Government, in consultation with the power companies, but have still to be implemented. Given
that the new Regulatory Commission is expected to be operational soon, the recommendations
have been tabled for consideration and implementation by the Commission following its start-up
of operations. Selected proposals that will be considered include the increased use of maximum
demand charges, time-of-use tariffs, and interruptible contracts, and also a further refinement of
the existing life-line tariffs for low income consumers. Much discussion occurred during the
ESAL over the magnitude of the first block of the domestic tariff (viz., life-line tariff), which
remains abnormally large. In addition, tariffs for irrigation remain low. Power system
performance indicators for NEPCO for the period 1991-1996 are given in Appendix 4. In other
areas, MEMR has also being continuing to implement programs to improve end-user
conservation, including energy use surveys in the industrial and household sectors. Recently, the
Council of Ministers has approved the establishment of a new research center for new and
renewable energy (including oil shale), energy conservation, and energy data that should help to
further strengthen the Government's focus on these energy issues.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   During project preparation and appraisal, a major focus of the both the Government and
the Bank was on the critical need for the ESAL's balance of payments support. The urgency of
the resource transfer objective created a strong impetus both within the Government and the
Bank to accelerate the preparation and appraisal of the operation. This same period witnessed
the emergence of new Bank policies on energy sector lending. These two factors combined to
contribute to a project design that, while adequately reflecting a rational reform agenda for the
Jordanian energy sector, also led to an imprecise definition of the approach that should be taken
towards the achievement of some of the ESAL's institutional reform objectives, and also to the
Government's formal adoption of the ESkL agenda before the agenda had achieved full
ownership among all of the concerned Jordanian authorities. This weakness in precision and in
borrower ownership contributed to a lengthy and sometimes difficult dialogue during



-10-
implementation over various issues that are discussed below in greater detail. On the positive
side, however, the imprecision in the ESAL approach allowed for more flexibility and give and
take during implementation that ultimately led to a favorable outcome.  The pace of
implementation and the ESAL's achievements may have fared better if greater precision and
ownership were present at the beginning of implementation, but even in the best of
circumstances the ESAL would have been confronted with strong institutional rigidities and
inertia in seeking to achieve its institutional reform objectives.
32.   At appraisal, it was envisaged that a central ESAL Implementation Team would be
established with authority to manage the ESAL reforms, and an understanding to this effect was
reached during negotiations. The Team was to report to the Minister of Planning and comprise
senior officials of the Ministries of Planning, Energy and Mineral Resources, and Finance, the
Central Bank of Jordan, and the energy sector enterprises, and have an appropriate operating
framework to facilitate the reforms. The establishment of this team, however, was never fully
bought into by the Government, nor fully constituted. Instead, the Government decided to vest
primary responsibility for implementing the ESAL reforms in MEMR, which was put in a
tenuous position of having to relinquish much of its own long established authority and control
over energy sector development to set the stage for much greater reliance on private sector-led
development. Similarly, JEA, which essentially operated as a government controlled enterprise
under the umbrella of MEMR, faced a similar set of circumstances. Most of the institutional
reforms, especially the concept of independent regulation of the power subsector, did not attract
broad-based support among sector institutions who perceived that their roles could be adversely
affected, until the later stages of reform implementation after they had been able to adapt to the
change. It is therefore likely that the pace of implementation and the adoption of the ESAL
reforms would have proceeded more smoothly and at a faster pace had the Government
established a central and more impartial authority to implement the ESAL reforms. The haste to
move forward with the ESAL to fulfill resource transfer objectives did not allow adequate time
for the implementation arrangements to be fully bought into by the Government nor for the
ESA1L Implementation Team to be operationally established up-front prior to appraisal and
negotiations.
33.   During project implementation, stakeholder commitment to the reforms also waxed and
waned, particularly because of frequent Cabinet reshuffles. The first of about four such
reshuffles during the implementation of the ESAL occurred immediately after loan effectiveness,
and the senior government officials who had previously championed the ESAL were transferred
to other government portfolios. The Cabinet reshuffles also delayed decision-making, primarily
due to the learning curve of new administrations.
34.   Accordingly, the pace of project implementation was slower than estimated at appraisal.
Loan effectiveness was achieved in December 1993, as envisaged at appraisal. But lengthy
delays occurred in the releases of the second and third tranches. Most of the delays occurred
between loan effectiveness on December 16, 1993 and the release of the second tranche on May
14, 1996 - a delay of about two years from the tranche release timing of May 1994 envisaged at
appraisal. The third tranche was released about 18 months after the second tranche, on
December 9, 1997, about two and a half years later than envisaged at appraisal. The original
loan Closing Date of June 30, 1996 was postponed three times, for a total of 18 months, first to
June 30, 1997, then to October 31, 1997, and finally to December 31, 1997. The Closing Date of
the Japanese OECF cofinancing loan was postponed once to December 20, 1997.



35.   Energy pricing adjustments were particularly difficult for the Government, given the
socio-political sensitivity of price increases, and required lengthy deliberations among decision-
makers. During the implementation of the ESAL, the Middle East Peace Process substantially
raised economic expectations among the populace, and the Government perceived that these
expectations were not being fully met. The uncertain regional investment climate and the
Government's tight monetary policy also exacerbated this situation, because of their dampening
effect on the creation of new employment opportunities. Ultimately, however, the Government
implemented the pricing adjustments and the ESAL targets were largely achievecl. Public
response to the pricing adjustments was muted.
36.   Another key delaying factor was the complexity of the institutional reforms and of the
alternative modalities on which decisions had to be made, and of the inherent resistance to
change. The learning curve for the Jordanian authorities was accordingly long and steep, and
much more time was required than estimated at appraisal for the authorities to study and achieve
consensus on the specific reform measures, such as the modalities of the regulatory framework
and the unbundling of the power sector.
37.   The most difficult institutional restructuring issue revolved around the organizational
structure and the reporting relationship of the new Regulatory Commission within the
government hierarchy, and the degree of aulhority that would be granted to the Commission to
set and adjust electricity prices. In this regard, the proposed Amended Electricity Law will
establish the Commission as a financially and administratively independent juridical entity
accountable to the Prime Minister. It will also vest authority in the Commission to determine
electricity prices subject to its due observance of government policies and also provided that
tariffs are sufficient to allow the power subsector companies the opportunity to recover a
reasonable return on investment. Other major issues that arose related to the relative authority
and roles of the MEMR and the Regulatory Commission in the licensing and oversight of new
private sector investment in generation and distribution, formulation of tariff policies and
performance standards, consumer protection,, and monitoring and inspection of power subsector
companies.
38.   Delays were also incurred due to the unanticipated need for further in-depth study of the
legislative framework for the electricity sector. Following the completion of the Financial and
Institutional Restructuring Study, the Government, in a haste to move quickly on private sector
investment, quickly presented a new Electricity Law to Parliament that was enacted in 1996, but
did so without adequate prior preparation or consultation with the Bank. It soon became
apparent to both the Government and the Bamk that the Law, while allowing for private sector
investment in the electricity sector and establishing the concept of a separate institution to
regulate the power sector, required substantial strengthening to make it consistent with and
conducive to the achievement of the ESAL objectives.
39.   In consultation with the Bank, the Government therefore recruited an international
consulting firm specializing in electricity law and power sector regulation, both to revisit the
Electricity Law and to prepare additional legislation for the establishment of an independent
regulatory commission operating under transparent and predictable procedures. The structure of
the new legislation, however, was constrained partly by the Government's imperative to build on
the existing law as much as possible, in order to minimize the changes that would need to be
considered by Parliament. Subsequently, in-depth discussions between the Government and the



-12-
Bank on the legislation were pursued during a supervision mission in May/June 1997 and again
at mneetings in Washington in October 1997 at which Jordanian representation was at ministerial-
level. Based on the findings and recommendations of these discussions, the new Amended
Electricity Law was finalized, approved by the Jordanian Cabinet, and presented to Parliament
prior to third tranche release.
40.   Although project risks and key performance indicators were well identified at appraisal,
the implementation of the ESAL may have proceeded more expeditiously if the scope of the
operation had been focused on a more limited list of pricing issues and of measured institutional
and financial reforms. The coverage of the ESAL was comprehensive and implementation and
supervision of the operation was correspondingly complex. It included conditionality on energy
pricing, institutional and financial reforms, environmental protection, and energy conservation -
all of the key areas of the energy sector that were emerging in the context of performance issues
in portfolio management and in Bank policy papers in 1992 and 1993, and which were then of
concern to the Bank's Executive Directors and management. Relative importance and priorities
among the agenda items was not well-defined at the outset, although the profile of the pricing
and power subsector restructuring agenda soon rose to the top of the agenda in terms of
signiflicance and importance. The broad coverage of the ESAL agenda, however, tended to dilute
the altention of senior Government and Bank officials to the priorities within the agenda, and,
when combined with the three tranche design of the operation, tended to contribute to project
fatigue among both Government and Bank decision-makers.
E. Project Sustainability
41.   Sustainability of the project and the major reforms is evaluated as "likely." Energy
prices have been adjusted to international levels and the financial health of the power sector
enterprises has been restored. The incorporation of NEPCO under the companies law and other
important institutional reforms have been enshrined in law. In addition, on October 4, 1997 the
Government also reaffirmed its commitment both to the ESAL reforms and to a further
deepening of the reforms, in the context of a Policy Statement that was approved by the
Jordanian Cabinet. This Policy Statement, which is given in Appendix 5, outlines the
Government's policy vision for the electricity sector in the coming years.
42.   During the implementation period of the ESAL, the Bank has in essence played a
partnership role with the Government in regulating the electricity sector. For the future, the
proposed Amended Electricity Law now under consideration by Parliament will establish an
independent and transparent Regulatory Commission, substantially removed from political
decision-makers, to decide on adjustments to electricity prices in the interests of both producers
and consumers. Pressure to maintain the financial health of the enterprises will also be driven
increasingly by the enterprises themselves. Previously, NEPCO frequently refrained from
adopting positions on pricing issues that differed significantly from that of the Government. It
has since been incorporated under the private company law, raising the profile of its profit-
making objectives, while the Government is also taking action to unbundle NEPCO into separate
generation, transmission and distribution companies.
43.   The Government is preparing a proposed Independent Power Producer (IPP) Project that
should help to further cement the ESAL reforms. The IPP Project is being designed to meet the
next imajor increment in generation capacity. It is expected to be constructed early over the



-13-
period 2000 - 2003 on a Build-Own-Operate (BOO) basis. Prospective bidders have been pre-
qualified and the preparation of the Request for Proposals is being carried out with the assistance
of international consultants. The proposed IPP Project is initiating a procurement process that is
founded upon the existence of the ESAL reforms. The private sponsors are expected to be
selected on a competitive basis, and will most likely be requested to contract for the construction
on a fixed-price, turn-key basis. The output of the IPP will be sold to the NEPCO transmission
company along the lines of the single buyer model of sector development. The Government has
requested the Bank to provide a partial risk guarantee to help improve the competitiveness of the
tendering process, the terms of project financing, and the price at which the private sponsor's
output will be sold to the Jordanian electricity grid. During the preparation and implementation
of the IPP Project, the Bank is also expected to provide further assistance for the operational
establishment of the Regulatory Commission.
44.   In the oil and gas sector, the establishment of the National Petroleum Company as a
profit-making corporation under the company law should help to ensure that improved economic
efficiency in the Government's domestic exploration and production activities will be
maintained. The Government is also giving consideration to the importation of natural gas on a
commercial basis.
45.   In sum, although substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
Government's energy sector reform program, a number of key steps remain to be completed.
The Government is continuing to impleTnent the reform program in the right direction. Although
unlikely, potential reversals of the reforms still carry material risks. The success of the energy
sector reform agenda would be severely jeopardized if electricity tariff-setting continues as in the
past to be a politically-charged and influenced function. It is therefore essential for the
sustainability of the reform program that Parliament enacts the Amended Electricity Law as
currently drafted, and that operational establishment of the Regulatory Commission is completed
fully and soon, complete with clear and precise tariff-setting mechanisms. In this regard, MEMR
has met on several occasions in recent rnonths with the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and
Mineral Resources, and has gained its endorsement of the amended provisions in the proposed
Law. The Amended Electricity Law is now on the agenda for the next session of Parliament. In
addition, it is essential that care must be taken to ensure that, pending the enactment of the
Amended Electricity Law, inconsistencies do not arise between the legal framework for the
proposed IPP project and that which would be indicated by the provisions of the Amended Law.
The Amended Electricity Law is essential for the establishment of a level playing field amongst
existing and new producers and distributors so that they all operate under the same rules, and
should enable power sector development to evolve over time with growth from that of a single
buyer model to a more open and compeltitive power pool model.
F. Bank Performance
46.   Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. During project identification, the
Bank had an open and constructive dialogue with the Government and the energy sector
institutions. The 1989 Energy Sector Study served as the foundation for the ESAL, and was
produced as a joint Government-Bank product. During project preparation and appraisal,
comprehensive and integrated financial models of the power sector and of the individual
enterprises were constructed and served as the foundation for the dialogue on energy pricing
issues, which was carried out at the highest levels of Government. An econoimic simulation



-14-
model was also constructed for the purpose of estimating the LRMC of electricity. To assist the
concerned Jordanian officials in achieving consensus within the Government on pricing issues,
the Balk prepared a detailed technical note for the Jordanian authorities on the financial
problems in the power subsector, including estimates of the potential fiscal costs of alternative
courses of action or inaction. The Bank missions were staffed appropriately with energy sector
expertise in institutional restructuring, engineering, and financial and economic analysis.
47.   During project preparation and appraisal, the ESAL was designed as a three-tranche
operation essentially because the prior diagnostics for the detailed financial and institutional
restructuring reforms could not be completed by appraisal. In the absence of an urgent need for
balance of payments support, it would have been preferable for the diagnostics to have been
carried out as part of preparation work. This would have further strengthened borrower
ownership and commitment, and also may also have enhanced the operation's readiness for
implementation. In restrospect, however, and considering the alternatives at the time, the Bank's
willingness to proceed with the ESAL with full recognition of these risks enabled critically
needed resources from the Bank and Japan to be provided when most needed for the larger
macroeconomic objectives to be best served. The flexibility built into the design of the ESAL
enabled those factors that were now well-grounded prior to Board presentation to be dealt with
reasonably effectively during implementation.
48.   However, the ESAL experience suggests that the multi-tranche design of the operation
may have been less than optimal because of the major institutional reforms that had to be carried
out. Experience worldwide in recent years suggests that the implementation of institutional
reforms is a labor intensive process that does not lend itself to definite time lines. Timetables are
heavily influenced by a number of external factors that cannot be accurately estimated or
predicted. The ESAL reforms especially required substantial detailed preparation work. In
Jordan, available skills and experience with such reforms at the time vvere also weak, and the
Govemrnent had to embark on a lengthy learning process to be able to carry them through
effectively. It may therefore have been better for the ESAL to have been designed as a series of
single thanche operations, with each tranche being released after the completion of specific
reform measures.
49.   During appraisal, detailed working papers were prepared to back-stop the ESAL
proposals, covering issues related to the proposed institutional reforms, the least cost investment
program in the power subsector, environmental protection, and energy conservation.
Monitorable reform programs and action plans were prepared to supplement the Policy and
Institutional Actions Matrix.
50.   At appraisal, the Bank generally identified the potential sources of the delays which did
in fact occur, but sought to tailor the ESAL implementation plans and schedules to the urgency
of the ESAL's balance of payments support and to the corresponding expectations for the timing
of the tranche releases. As noted in Part D above, however, a number of factors conspired to
produce lengthy implementation delays, indicating that the Bank could perhaps have better
estimated the risks and probabilities of such delays.
51.   I)uring project supervision, well-staffed supervision missions were supplemented with
smaller technical discussion missions in the intervening periods. Within the Bank, both pre- and
post-supervision issues meetings were convened at the level of regional management when



-15-
considered necessary. The Bank's project supervision missions performed satisfactorily in
supervising the technical and financial aspects of the ESAL and in bringing issues to the
attention of the Government and Bank management at the highest levels. Bank missions
generally pursued issues and actions vigorously, and sought to build upon the findings and
recommendations of the Japanese Grant-financed technical consultant studies in consultation
with the Jordanian authorities to achieve workable and desirable options that would also help to
address various government concerns. For example, Bank missions, building upon the
international consultant study of the legislative and regulatory framework for the power
subsector, advised and assisted the Jordanian authorities in the detailed formulation of the
Amended Electricity Law that the Government presented to Parliament. However, the resolution
of major issues that arose during project supervision, such as those relating to energy pricing
adjustments and the independence and finctions of the proposed Regulatory Commission, may
have been resolved sooner, but probably much less satisfactorily, if the Bank had more fully
accommodated the political constraints of the Government.
G. Borrower Performance
52.   The performance of the Governrent is rated as satisfactory in both project preparation
and implementation. During project preparation, the Government collaborated closely with the
Bank in carrying out the 1989 Energy Sector Study that underpinned the ESAL, and also
facilitated an open and constructive dialogue with the Bank on macroeconomic and sector reform
issues and options. During implementaltion, the Government managed the technical assistance
required for the ESAL reforms effectively, and achieved substantial progress in implementing
the comprehensive institutional restructurings envisaged under the ESAL. The Government's
commitment to energy sector pricing and institutional reforms, and to its ability to implement
them, was occasionally threatened or delayed by various factors, including Cabinet reshuffles
and possibly the absence of a central ESAL Implementation Team, but the Government managed
to take the very difficult decisions required to achieve the ESAL objectives. The Government
substantially complied with all major loan covenants.
H. Cofinancier Performance
53.   The performnance of the cofinancier, OECF, is rated as satisfactory in project
implementation. OECF was not involved in project preparation. OECF and the Bank liaised
closely and fully consulted with each other prior to each tranche release. The OECF was invited
to join Bank supervision missions and did so at a critical stage in the implementation of the
ESAL, when it provided valuable inputs and support. The OECF also actively participated in the
ministerial-level discussions with the Jordanian authorities prior to third tranche release.
I. Consultant Performance
54.   Consultants were financed under the Japanese PHRD Grant to carry out a number of
studies of critical importance for the implementation of the ESAL. One consulting firm (U.S.A.)
was contracted to carry out a major institutional and financial restructuring study of the energy
sector. The findings and recommendations of the study formed the basis for actions that were
implemented prior to the second tranche release of the ESAL in May 1996. These included: (a)
the incorporation of the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) under the Companies Law as the
National Electric Power Company (NEFPCO); (b) the formulation of plans for reorganizing the



-16-
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) and the Natural Resources Authority
(NRA); (c) the establishment of a new oil/gas company; and (d) the formulation of plans for an
independent regulator for the power subsector. The consulting firm performed satisfactorily in
most areas of the study, except for some aspects related to the financial restructuring of the
power utilities, and it provided workshops and other forms of training to Jordanian officials that
helped to raise awareness and understanding of the reform agenda and issues. Another
consulting firm (U.K.) carried out a study to recommend revisions and updates of the
Govermment's draft environmental guidelines for the energy sector. The firm performed
satisfactorily but its final report lacked specificity in some areas of the guidelines. Another firm
(U.K.) carried out a study to update and recommend modifications to the electricity tariff
structurn for purposes of demand side management and tariff regulation. The consultant's report
was satisfactory but significant differences of view arose between the consultant and the
Jordanian authorities over some of the report's recommendations that were not fully addressed.
Finally, a legal consulting firm (U.S.A.) was recruited to help formulate an appropriate
legal/institutional structure for the regulation of the electricity sector, and it carried out this task
satisfactorily.
J. Assessment of Outcome
55.   The ESAL's outcome is rated as satisfactory. The ESAL has achieved most of its major
objectives and is expected to achieve satisfactory development results with only a few
shortcornings. In the absence of the risks cited above (see para. 45), the ESAL might merit a
higher outcome rating.
K. Future Operation
56.   In the past, Jordan has relied on public-sector-led development and on donor financing
for new investments, particularly in electricity generation. In the future, investors and producers
will be encouraged to compete and to promote efficiency in investment and operations. Private
investors are expected to develop the vast majority of Jordan's future investments in power
generation. Over the next decade, electricity consumption in Jordan is expected to grow by over
five percent per annum, requiring major new capital investments in power generation. The
energy sector restructuring and reform actions supported by the ESAL have helped to develop an
enabling framework conducive to the introduction of IPP Projects to meet this growth in
demand.
57.   The separation of policy making, sector regulation, and day-to-day sector operations
should raise the credibility of the sector among the private sector and its attractiveness as a place
to invest. Early indications are that Jordan's strategy of pursuing sector reforms, including the
incorporation of public utilities and independent regulation, has already sent positive signals to
the private sector. After independent regulation has been fully established, the profile of
corporate- governance objectives in electricity pricing decisions should be raised significantly
relative to socio-political objectives.
58.   The Government has also provided the Bank with a Policy Statemeni for power sector
reform approved by the Jordanian Cabinet on October 4, 1997. The Policy Statement reaffirms
the Government's commitment to the ESAL objectives and longer-term vision for the electricity
sector, including the establishment of an independent and transparent regulatory commission, the



-17-
attraction and promotion of private sector investment, pricing policies for electricity and
petroleum products that reflect full economic prices and enable investors to earn a reasonable
rate of return, and the unbundling of the electricity sector.
L. Key Lessons Learned
59.   The presence of strong, up-front borrower ownership to the reform agenda is of major
importance for effective implementation. The haste to expedite the ESAL for resource transfer
objectives led to weaknesses in borrower ownership of the ESAL agenda that contributed to a
lengthy and sometimes difficult dialogue during implementation, although a favorable outcome
was eventually achieved.  If stronger ownership had been present at the beginning of
implementation, the pace of implementation and the ESAL's achievements would likely have
fared better, although even in the best of circumstances the ESAL would have been confronted
with strong institutional rigidities andi inertia in seeking to achieve its institutional reform
objectives (see para. 31).
60.   Institutional arrangements need to be clearly defined and bought into by appraisal. The
haste to move forward with the ESAL to fulfill resource transfer objectives did not allow
adequate time for the implementation arrangements to be fully bought into by the Government
nor for the ESAL Implementation Team to be operationally established up-front prior to
appraisal and negotiations. During the implementation of the ESAL, important decisions were
sometimes delayed because of potential conflicts of interest among the institutions responsible
for implementing the reforms. The pace of implementation and the adoption of the ESAL
reforms would have proceeded more smoothly and at a faster pace had the Government
established a central and more impartial authority to implement the ESAL reforms (see para. 32).
61.   Single tranche adjustment operations may be more effective lending instruments for
adjustment operations involving institutional reforms. The ESAL experience suggests that the
multi-tranche design of the operation may have been less than optimal because of the major
institutional reforms that had to be carried out. Experience worldwide in recent years suggests
that the implementation of institutional reforms is a labor intensive process that does not lend
itself to definite time lines. Timetables are heavily influenced by a number of external factors
that cannot be accurately estimated or predicted. The ESAL reforms especially required
substantial detailed preparation work. While the urgent and continuing need for balance of
payments support mitigated against this approach, it may have been better if this need had been
absent for the ESAL to have been designed as a series of single tranche operations (see para. 48).
62.   The availability of concurrent technical assistance can be critical to the effective
implementation of sector adjustment operations. Under the ESAL, the Japanese PHRD Grant
played a major role by financing the technical assistance and studies that underpinned the
decision-making by Jordanian policy makers. In the absence of the technical assistance, the
information supporting critical policy decisions would not have been robust, and the decisions
would not likely have been as efficient (see paras. 7 and 54).



-18-
STATISTICAL TABLES:
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits and sector Studies
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements
Table 5:      Project Financing
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 7:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:      Bank Resources: Missions



-19-
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial       Partial      Negligible        Not
.__________________________ -________        ____________  ____________     A p p licab le
Macroeconomic Policies                V
Sector Policies                                           _                 _
Financial Objectives
Institutional Objectives                                                    _
Physical Objectives                _          _
Poverty Reduction                                                                 /
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives          _                                        .
Environmental Objectives                                     _
Public Sector Management (e.g.,                     V
establishment of regulatory
framework)
Private Sector Development                                   _
Energy Conservation Objectives                      V
Other (Training)                                                                 VI
1B.ProjectSustainability|                Likely             Unlikely         Uncertain
C. Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification 
Preparation a
Appraisal 
Supervision                                                   V
D. Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                    V
Implementation                   =                            V
Covenant compliance                  _
Operation                    -_                        _
I E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
_ _             _       _        I    _I_v                              I       ~         !



-20-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits and Sector Studies
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose                   Approval          Status
(Preceding                                                Year
Operations)                                             (mm/yr)
Energy Sector     To help refine the Government's strategy in  02/90    The dialogue on the
Study (Report     light of severe financial imbalances imposed        study led to the
7984-J0)          by the economic downturn experience in              identification of the
1988/89 and the growing financial and              ESAL.
institutional distortions in the sector     _
Industry and Trade  To assist the Government in responding to  12/89    The government
Policy Adjustment  the acute economic difficulties by deepening       implemented the
Loan (I1'PAL)      its macroeconomic adjustment efforts, and          ITPAL successfully.
by reforming the trade and industrial policies
to lay the basis for sustainable long-term
growth.
Sixth Power Project To decrease Jordan's dependence on       06/86    The project achieved
(Loan 2710-JO)    petroleum products, increase the reliability of     its principal objective
electricity supply, and improve system             of improving power
efficiency.                                        system efficiency and
reliability in power.
Energy            To initiate or continue some major         12/83    The project achieved
Development       investments to improve overall energy               its principal objectives.
Project            efficiency, attract cofinancing, and ensure
(Loan 2371-JO)    that critical studies for the energy sector
would become available.
Aqaba Steam -     To help Jordan meet future electricity     05/82    The project achieved
Power V'          demand at least cost, improve the quality of        its principal objectives,
(Loan 2162-JO)    supply, support rural electrification, and          particularly the
promote institutional improvements.                strengthening of
institutional capacities.
Power I'v          To help Jordan meet future electricity    05/81    The project achieved
(Loan 1986-JO)    demand at least cost, improve the quality of        its principal objectives,
supply, support rural electrification, and         particularly the
promote institutional improvements.                strengthening of
institutional capacities.
Power I[II (Loan  To interconnect several regions for creation  04/79    Overall, the objectives
1688-JO)          of economic and reliable electric power             of the project were
system, to supply industrial complexes from        achieved.
the main public power system, and to
continue institution-building efforts.     _
Power Il          To improve and expand installation and     06/75    Overall, the objectives
(Credit 0570-JO)    generating capacity, provide reliable power,      of the project were
meet growing demand, and enhance                   achieved.
institutional development.                      .
Hussein Power     To improve and expand installation and     05/73    Overall, the objectives
Generation        generating capacity, provide reliable power,        of the project were
(Credit 0386)     meet growing demand, and enhance                    achieved.
institutional development.



-21-
Table 3: P'roject Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned                 Date Actual
Identification                    l_l                                May 1990
Preparation                                                        February 1992
June 1992
September 1992
Appraisal                                    .                     March 31, 1993
Negotiations                                                        July25, 1993
Board Presentation                                                 October 7, 1993
Signing                                                          November24, 1993
Effectiveness                         December 1, 1993           December 16, 1993
Disbursement of First Tranche        December 16, 1993           December 16, 1993
Disbursement of Second Tranche           May 1994                  May 14, 1996
Disbursement of Third Tranche            May 1995                 December 9,1997
Credit Refocussing                       _
Loan Closing                            June 30, 1996            December 31, 1997
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements (USS million equivalent)
|  FY94        FY95       FY96        FY97       FY98
Appraisal Estimate                    40          60    |    80 
Actual                                40          -          60          -         80
Actual as a percentage of appraisal   50         50          75         75         100
estimateI
Date of Final Disbursement        December 11, 1997
Table 5: Project Financing (US$M)
Source                   Foreign               Local               Total
Japan (OECF)                         80.0                                     80.0
IBRD                                 80.0                                     80.0
Japan (PHRD)                                       __
Total:                    161.0                                    161.0



-22-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation'
Indicators                                       Status
Energy Pricing
Electricity prices to cover economic costs (LRMC)           Substantially achieved
and en2Lble each utility to satisfy specified financial
targets
Each power utility to meet or exceed specified              Substantially achieved
financial targets (DSCR of 1.50 and SFR of 35%)
Prices of individual petroleum products to cover            Substantially achieved
their economic prices (in accordance with agreed
formula)
Price of natural gas (for electricity) to cover 85% of           Achieved
the fuel-oil equivalent price
Sector Restructuring
Power Subsector: (i) incorporation of JEA under             Substantially achieved
Company Law; (ii) Divestiture by JEA of its
shareholdings in JEPCO and IDECO; (iii)
Submission to Parliament of a new Electricity Law
that enables private investment in generation and
distribution and the establishment of a separate and
transparent regulatory authority; (iv)
Implemrentation of Electricity By-laws designed to
promote transparency and autonomy in the
functions and operations of the regulatory authority,
including tariff setting
Oil/Gas; Subsector: Establishment of an oil/gas                  Achieved
company under the Company Law to take over the
commercial oil and gas activities of the public
sector
Public Sector Entities: Satisfactory progress in            Substantially achieved
reorganizing the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources (MEMR) and the Natural Resources
Authority (NRA).
Environmental Protection:
Satisfactory progress in achieving objectives                 Partially achieved
including designation of a competent environmental
authority
Energy Conservation:
Adoption by JEA of agreed recommendations of an               Partially achieved
electricity tariff structure study to improve
electricity demand management
Subsequent to approval of the project, key indicators were included in the Form 590 during the course of supervision
pursuwmt to new Bank guidelines.



-23-
Table 7: Sta1us of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant   Present   Origind       IRtevised                 Description of covenant
am        Stats   fulfltment  fuilflilment
date        date
Loan 1:          13         c      06/30/1994              Macroeconomic Framework. Maintain an agreed medium-
Schedule 4,                                                term macroeconomic framework, supportive of ESAL
para. al                                                   objectives, and achieve an appropriate externd financing
plan that would improve debt ratios.
Loan 2:          02         c      06/30/1994  0.i/05/11996  Energy Pricing. Adjust power tariffs to: (a) ensure their full
Schedule 4,                                                coverage of LRMC, & (b) enable individual power
para a.2                                                   companies to achieve financial targets of a DSCR of 1.25
times & an SFR of 20 %. Adjust prices of individual
petroleum products to achieve economic prices (as defined
on basis of an import parity formula). Adjust price of
naturd gas to maintain it at 85% of fuel-oil price
equivalence (for electricity)
Loan 3:          12         c      06/30/1994  04U09/1996  Power Subsector Restructuring and Regulatory Framework.
Schedule 4,                                                Adopt and begin implementation of an agreed action plan, to
parama3                                                    include monitorable indicators and performance criteria to
be defined by the restructuring study, for power subsector
restructuring
Loan 4:          12         c      06/30/1994  04/09/1996  Oil and Gas Subsector Restructuring. Establish the oil/gas
Schedule 4,                                                company and commence operations unless Parliamentary
para a4                                                    approvals, if required, necessitate a delay. Adopt an agreed
action plan to include monitorable indicators and
performance criteria to be defined by the restructuring study,
_____    ______ __    for the reorganization of NRA
Loan S:          12         c       06/30/94   04/09/1996  Reorganization of MEMR. Adopt an agreed action plan for
Schedule 4,                                                reorganizing MEMR and strengthening mechanisms for
para aS                                                    setting overall policy and coordinating sector development
Loan 6:        06, 12       c      06/30/1994  04/09/1996  Environmental Protection. Achieve satisfactofy progress in
Schedule 4,                                                preparing & enacting environmental guidelines/regulations
paraaLS                                                    for the energy sector. Designate a component authority at
national level to coordinate environmental programs &
monitor & enforce environmental regulations. Strengthen
capacity of environmental unit in MEMR to enable it to
monitor & oversee environmental protection in energy
operations.
Loan 7:          12         c      06/30/1994  04/09/1996  Energy Conservation. Implement agreed action plan to
Schedule 4,                                                improve energy conservation, electricity demandside
par a.6                                      _             management and power system performance.
Loan 8:          13         c      06/30/1995  C5/30/1997  Macroeconomic Framework. Maintain an agreed
Schedule 4,                                                mediumterm macroeconomics framework, supportive of
para bl                                                    ESAL objectives, and achieve an appropriate externa
____________ _fin_ fancing plan that would improve debt ratios.
Loan 9:          02         c      06/30/1995   12/0U/1997  Energy Pricing. Adjust power tariffs to: (a) ensure their futl
Schedule 4,                                                coverage of LRMC & (b) enable individual power
para b.2                                                   companies to achieve financial targets of a DSCR of 1.50
times & SFR of 35%. Maintain prices of individual
petroleum products to achieve economic prices (as defined
on basis of import parity formula). Maintain price of natura
gas at S5% of fuel-oil price equivalent (for electricity).
Loan 10:         12         c      06/30/1995  12/08/1997  Achieve satisfactory progress on implementing the agreed
Schedule 4,                                                action plan for power sub-sector rstructuring and
par. b3(a)                                         _       regulation.
Loan 11:         12         c      06/30/1995  12i081997  Oil and Gas Subsector Restructuring. Achieve satisfactoy
Schedule 4,                                                progress in the implementation of the agreed action plan for
par. b3(b)                                                 the reorganization of NRA.
Loan 12:         12         c      06/30/1995  12/08/1997  Reorganization of MEMR. Achieve satisfactory progress in
Schedle 4,                                                 the implementation of the agreed action plan for the
pars b3(d)                                                 reorganiation of MEMR.
Loan 13:       06,12        c      06/30/1995  1V208/1997  Environmental Protection. Achieve satisfactory progress in



-24-
Sectibn    ~Covenant  Prent   Or igl    Revised                       Description of eovenant
am        StatUS   fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
Schedule 4,                                              the implementation and enforcement of environmental
para b3(c)                                                guidelines/regulations for the energy sector.
Loan 14        12         c      06130/1995  12/08/1997  Energy Conservation. Continue implementation of the
Schedule 4,                                               agreed action plan for energy consevation, including
para. b.4                                                 electricity demand side management and power system
performance.
Loan 15:        13         c      06/30/1996  12/31/1997  Closing date of Loan
pwr. 2.03
Loan 16:       01,03       c                              Central Bank of Jordan to manage flows of project funds.
Section 2.08
Loan 17:        09         c                              Borrower to furnish report on implementation progress prior
Section 3.01                                             to joint BanWGovt Reviews of progress.
Loan 18:        01                                        Audited accounts due 6 months after end of each fiscal year
Section 3.03                                             (i.e. 6130 of each year).
Loan 19:        03         c                              Withdrawal and utilization of fimds for specified pmuposes.
Schedule I
Loan 20:       01,03       c                              Use of Special Account
Schedule 5
Status: c - complied with
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
_______                Planned                       Revised                       Actual
State of project     Weeks          USS           Weeks           USS           Week           USSS
cycle
Preparation to        na                            na                           94.7          292.8
appraal
Appraisal           na                            na                           40.9          127.0
Negotations
throupg Board         na                            na                           20.4           64.9
Approval
Supervision          na                                                        118.7          393.4
Completion           8.0           35.0           8.0            35.0           5.9           29.4
Total             na                            na                          280.6          907.4
na - nolt available



-25-
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Montb/Year  Number   Days in           Specialized Staff Skills       Performance Rading
Project Cycle                  Of        Field
Persons
Implement-   Development
_________  _______                  atfoa Status    Objectives
Identification    06/90         7         na             Mission Leader
and                                           Financial/Energy Institutions Sp.
Preparadfon                                            Power Engineer (2)
Missions                                               Financial Cons.
Petroleum Engineer
Procurement Sp.
Energy Sector Cons.
2/92         5         na             Mission Leader
Financial/Energy Institutions Sp.
Power Engineer
Financial Cons.
Petroleun Engineer
09/92        5         na              Mission Leader
Financial/Energy Institutions Sp.
Financial Cons.
Petrolewu Engineer
________  __Energy Sector Cons.
Appraisal        04/93        10        na              Division Chief
Task Manager
Division Chief
Project Advisor
Financial/Energy Institutions Sp.
Petroleum Sp.
Power Eng.
Project Econ.
Financial Cons.
__________  _Environmental Sp.
Negotifatons      08/93        3          10             Task Manager
Energy Sector Cons.
_____ ____ __ _ _  Legal Counsel
Supervision      04/94         2         12              Task Manager                 S             S
Missions                                    _        Energy Sector Cons.
10/94        2         12              Task Manager
_____ __ _ _  Energy Sector Cons.
11/94        5         15              Task Manager                 S             S
Financial/Energy Institutions Sp.
Petroleum Sp.
Financial Con.
________   _Energy Sector Cons.
05/95         1         4              Task Manager           _
11/95        1          2              Task Manager
02/96        4          15             Task Manager                 S              S
Energy Sector Sp.
Energy Consultant
_______  _____  Financial Cons.
06/97        4          14             Task Manager                 S              S
Energy Sector Sp.
Regulatory Cons.
________  ____  Financial Cons.
11/96        1          3              Task Manager
10/7         4          6              Task Manager
(at Bark          Legal Counsel
head.          Regulatory Sp. (2)
quarters)         Country Officer
Completion       06/98         1          7              Task Manager



APENDI 1
Page 1 of I
Ilinit i, _tu~      ~   I RUm                   L-SLmUlj...l  LJwL.f a1j
.,L~L.S ______
,., a                                                          -              I'm', 3  =- 
Mt. KEMAL DERVIS
VICE PRUSDENT
T1 WORLD BAN KGROUE
Is1818 STREET N.W.
WASHIGTON, D.C. 20433
LTS.A.
FAX NO.: (202) 477 - 6391
CC       Mr. hIder Sud
Mr. Dean Jordan
Subject: hemrL SSCr Adinstment Lo
Dear f. Dervis,
Please let me take the opprtunity of completing the ESAL to extnd to
you personally, to the Board of the World Bank Group, the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Ja;an and to all ESAL Staff, our appreciation for
the excellent support,  sstan  and cooperafion that th Govenment of Jordan
has received during all the stgs of the ESAL Loan.
The ESAL helped the Govemment of Jordan very much to launch and to
implement it's co hngve uaroeconomics adjusting program in the energy
sector. While the ESAL's developmt objecdives wee mainly achieved, the
Govenmet is cotuQiDg to implent the reform program of dh energy sector
in the right direction and is taking all measurs and meas to make it a susanable
one in order to gather he eected ihitfbl results in the near future.
Thmak you very much for your efforts and support in this regard and we are
looking forward to keep a continuos coopeation between tho World Bank Group
and the Govenment of Jordan in tho future .
Best regards
Mohbs    '.brai
Minister of Eezy.,& Mineral ResolLarces
P0. Usi 14W27   Tsz 365714
P 'D  1400!2 TO& 8W14 -tt * *s 



THE OVER8EAS ECONOMIC                               age of 1
COOPERATION FUND
JAPAN
4-1, OHTEMACHI 1-CHOME, CHIYODA-KU, TOKYO 100          FAX NO: 3215-2897, 3215-2896, 3215-1533, 5606-3615
JAPAN                                    TELEX NO: J28430, J28360 COOPFUND
June 5, 1998
Deane Jordan
Principal Operations Officer
Private Sector Development and Finance Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
Dear Mr. Jordan
Re: Jordan - Energy Sector Adiustment Loan (ESAL)
We appreciate your cooperation for the captioned project in many aspects such
as providing critical information, and particularly your realistic judgment to
evaluate the fulfillment of a set of conditions for third tranche release.
Regarding your ICR, we share your assessment of outcome that ESAL is
expected to achieved satisfactory development in this sector such as the pricing
policy and regulatory framework.
We look forward to having further cooperation in the future.
With regards,
Sincerely,    /0
Junichi Hse"gawa
Director, lat Division
Operations Department III



APE-NDLX 3
Page 1 of S
JORDAN ELECIRIC POWER SECTOR (COMPRISINGNEPCO, JEPCO & IDECO)
FINANCIAL STATISTICS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
-  - A ctu al-.                         -   _ __________  -  -Pzojectcd--    -  ________o__d-
1993        1994         1995          1996          1997         1998          1999          2000
GENERATION - GWH                           4,400        4,687        5,213         5,666         6,049        6,554         7,003         7,423
SALES - GWH                                 3,686       3,972        4,357         4,761         5,064        5,501         5,876         6,247
LOSSES                                      16.2%       15.3%        16.4%         16.0%         16.3%        16.1%         16.1%         15.8%
TARIFF - Fl[,S/KWH SOLD
-PRESENTLEVEL                               36.5        37.0         37.1          41.6          41.6         41.6          41.7          41.6
-AVERAGEFORYEAR                             35.2        37.0         37.1          40.2          41.6         41.6          41.7          41.6
- ACTUAL AVERAGE (POST INCREASE)            36.5        37.0         37.1          41.6          41.6         41.6          41.7          41.6
TARIFF - USCIKWH SOLD
-AVERAGEFORYEAR                              5.0         5.2          5.2           5.7           5.9          5.9           5.9           5.9
CHANGE IN YEAR'S AV TARIFF-%                  7.3         4.9          0.4           8.2           3.6          0.0           0.1          (0.0)
CHANGEINTARIFF(SALESMIX)-%                                 1.4         0.4           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.1          (0.0)
PROPOSED INCREASE IN TARIFF-%                12.1        (0.0)         0.0          12.1           0.0         (0.0)          (0.0)        (0.0)
DATEOFPROPOSEDINCREASE                 6/15/93              0            0   5/1/96                 0             0             0             0
OPERATING COSTS - FILS/KWH SOLD
FUEL COSTS                                  14.9        16.6         16.8          19.0          20.9         17.9          17.1          17.5
ENVIRONMENTAL FEES                           0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
OTHER COSTS                                 13.0        13.1         12.9          14.6          17.9         17.7          18.6          18.1
INCOME TAX                                   0.4         0.6          0A            0.2           0.3          0.8           0.6           0.7
TOTAL OPERATiNG                             28.2        30.3         30.1          33.8          39.2         36.4          36.4          36.3
OPERATING INCOME-FIS/KWH SOLD                 S.3         7.9          8.2           8.3           4.9          7.5           7.4           7.3
OPERATINGRATIO - TIMES                       0.77        0.79         0.79          0.80          0.89         0.83          0.83          0.83
INTEREST - FILS/KWH SOLD                      4.2         4.1          3.7           4.0           3.6          3.4           4.1           3.4
FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES-FIIS/KWH              1.7        (0.1)         2.1           0.2           0.6          0.3           0.1           0.0
NET INCOME - FILS/KWH SOLD                    2.9         4.5          3.5           5.1           1.4          4.2           3.4           4.1
GROSS ASSETS- JD 000                      466,168     510,269      570,065      1,073,501    1,169,430     1,278,069     1,265,769     1,265,880
NET ASSETS (EQUITY) - D 000                97,848      119,590     134,680       536,271       547,543      558,536       566,590       580,497
NET BORROWING - 3D 000                    272,026     272,174      279,758       331,044       424,798      507,549       486,053       462,759
RECEIVABLES - DAYS                            86          104          105           104           79            65            60            60
PAYABLES-DAYS                                 56           79          153           163          123            90            90            86
CURRENTRATIO-TIMES                           1.03         1.15        0.96          1.11          1.32         1.36          1.50          1.54
DEBT/EQUrTY RATIO - TIMES                    0.69        0.65         0.63          0.35          0.42         0.47          0.45          0.44
DEBT SERVICE RATIO - TIMES                   1.02         1.01        1.20          1.35          1.26         1.56          1.94          2.07
SELF FINANCING RAT10 - %                    (30.4)       33.0         50.2          21.5          22.1         40.7          37.9         104.8
RETURN ON ASSETS-%/a                          8.3          8.3         8.8          10.8           3.0          4.9           4.4           4.3
/ 1997 onwards bhsed on NEPCO fixed asse fully revalued.



Page 2 of 5
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATISTICS
FOR TIE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
-Actul-                        -                     -Projeced -  -
1993        1994         1995         1996          1997         1998          1999          2000
GENERATION - GWH                           4,390       4,676        5,201        5,656         6,042        6,554         7,003         7,423
SALES - GWH                                3,958       4,242        4,685        5,100         5,435        5,904         6,305         6,699
LOSSES                                      9.8%        9.3%         9.9^h         9.8%        10.0%          9.9%        10.0ff         9.8%
TARIFF - FILSIKWH SOLD
* PRESENT LEVEL                            29.1        23.9         28.9         33.8          33.9          34.0         34.0          34.1
- AVERAGEFOR EAR                           27.3        28.9         28.9         32.3          33.9          34.0         34.0          34.1
- ACTUAL AVERAGE (POST INCREASE)           29.1        28.9         23.9         33.3          33.9         34.0          34.0          34.1
TARIFF - USC/KWH SOLD
-AVERAGEFOR YEAR                            3.9         4.1          4.1          4.5           4.8           4.3          4.8           4.3
CHANGE IN YEARS AV TARIFF-%                 11.9         5.9         (0.1)         11.7          5.0           0.3          0.2           0.0
CHANGE IN TARIFF(SALES MDQ-%                            (0.7)        (0.1)                       0.3           0.3          0.2           0.0
PROPOSED INCREASE IN TARIFF-%               19.3         0.0          0.0          17.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
DATE OF PROPOSED INCREASE             6/15/93              0           0   5/1/96                  0            0             0             0
OPERATING COSTS - FLS/KIWH SOLD
FUEL                                       13.8         15.5        15.6          17.3         19.5          16.7         16.0          16.3
ENVIRONMElTAI FEES                          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
OTHERCOSTS                                  7.4         7.4          7.3           9.0         12.0          12.0         12.9          12.5
INCOME TAX                                  0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.1           0.5          0.4           OA
TOTAL OPERATING                            21.3        23.0         22.9          26.3         31.6          29.1         29.2          29.2
OPERATING INCOME-FILS/KWH SOLD               6.0         5.7          5.8           5.9          2.9           5.4          5.4           5A
OPERATINGRATIO-TIMES                        0.73        0.30         0.30          0.82         0.92          0.34         0.34          0.34
iNTEREST - FILS/KWH SOLD                     2.9         2.3          2A           2.7           2.5          2.5           3.2           2.6
FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES-F1LS/1WH             1.0        (0.1)        IA           (0.1)         0.3           0.1          0.0           0.0
NET INCOME - FI1/KWH SOLD                    2.2         3.3          2.7          4.1           0.6          3.0           2.2           2.3
GROSS ASSETS - J1) 000                   335,441     365,863      410,502      894,269       931,515     1,031,990     1,058,394    1,054,137
NET ASSETS (EQUITY) -JD 000               79,065      93,635      107,543       507,545      512,349       515,223      513,373       523,370
NET BORROWING - 3D 000                   214,322     221,660      232,726      233,352       373,951      462,524       438,592       423,196
RECEIVABLES-DDAYS                            99          131         139           131            95           75            60           60
PAYABLES - DAYS                              49           76          142          126            90           60            60            60
CURRENTRATIO-TIMES                          1.11        1.23         1.09          1.31         1.75          1.68         2.09          2.13
DEBTJEQUITY RATIO - TIMES                   0.69        0.66         0.64         0.33          OAI          0.47          0.46          0.45
DEBT SERVICERATIO - TIMES                   1.05        1.03         1.27          1.43         1.24          1.51         1.89          2.04
SELF FINANCING RAIO- %                     (90.7)        (5-3)       29.5          10.1         17.0         34A           32.7         100.5
RETURN ON ASSETS - %
- FULLY REVALUED BASIS                                                                           2.4          4.            4.2           4.1
-PARTLYREVALUEDBASIS                         9.0         9.3         10.0          13.2         13.4          17.0         11.7           9.9



Page 3 of 5
JORDAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATISTICS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
-Actua- -____-           ____-__ _  -Noctd-
1993        1994        1995          1996          1997         199S          1999         2000
PURCHASED - GWH                            2,146       2,392        2,632        2,845         3,039        3,247         3,447        3,646
SALES -GWH                                 1,935       2,190        2,382        2,598         2,766        2,955         3,137        3,320
LOSSES                                      9.8%        S.4%         9.5%         8.7%          9.0%         9.0h          9.0%         8.9%
TARIFF - FlIS/KWH SOLD                              -
- PRESENT LEVEL                            38.0        38.6         38.6         43.3          43.3         433           433           43.3
- AVERAGE FOR YEAR                         36.6        38.6         38.6         42.0          43.3         43.3          43.3          43.3
- ACTUAL AVERAGE (POST INCREASE)           38.0        38.6         3S.6         43.3          43.3         43.3          43.3          43.3
TARIFF - USCIKWH SOLD
-AVEARGEFORYEAR                             5.2         5.5          5.4          5.9           6.1          6.1           6.1          6.1
CHANGEINYEAR'SAVTARIFF-%                     5.9         5.5         (0.1)         8.8           3.1          0.0           0.0           0.0
CHANGE IN TARIFF(SALES MIX)-%                            1.6         (0.1)                       0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
PROPOSED INCREASE IN TARIFF-%                9.9         0.0          0.0          12.2          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
DATE OF PROPOSED INCREASE             6/15/93              0           0   5/1/96                  0            0            0             0
OPERATING COSTS-FILS/KWH SOLD
PURCHASED POWER                            26.3        28.3         28.3         32.1          34.1         34.1          34.0          34.0
OTHER COSTS                                 7.3         7.2          7.1          7.1           7.2          7.1           7.0           6.9
INCOMETAX                                   0.7         1.1          0.6          0.3           0.3          0.4           0.4           0.4
TOTAL OPERATING                            34.3        36.6         36.1         39.5          41.6         41.5          41.4          41.3
OPERATING INCOME-FIIKWH SOLD                 3.1         2.8          3.3          3.2           2.4          2.5           2.6           2.6
OPERATING RATIO - TIMES                     0.92        0.93         0.92         0.92          0.95         0.94          0.94          0.94
INTEREST - FILS/KWH SOLD                     1.5         1.7          1.8          1.8           1.5           1.3          1.1           1.1
FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES                      1.1        (0.1)         0.9          0.6           0.3          0.2           0.1           0.1
NETINCOME-FILS/KWHSOLD                       0.8         1.6          0.9          1.1           0.8          1.2           1.5           1.7
GROSS ASSETS -JD 000                     118,114      134,803     150,886       170,393      170,929       174,168      179,458       184,269
NET ASSETS (EQUITY) - JD 000              17,329       23,658      23,965        25,368       26,065       32,333        35,370        43,453
NETBORROWINGG-JD000                       46,469      38,274       33,350        31,299       37,210       38,226        41,711        35,130
RECEIVABLES - DAYS                           79           89          84            88            70           60            60           60
PAYABLE FOR POWER PURCHASE - DAY             83          128          141          142           105           75            60           60
CURRENT RATIO - TIMES                       0.91        0.95         0.77         0.83          0.76         0.85          0.81          0.85
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO - TIMES                   0.68        0.59         0.54         0.54          0.53         0.49          0.44          0.33
DEBT SERVICE RATIO - TDIES                  0.94        0.94         1.06          1.22         1.29          1.7S         2.20          2.17
SELF FINANCING RATIO - %                   (20.5)       55.3        122.0         59.4          37.6         38.0          50.2          85.2
RETURN ON ASSETS - %                         7.5         6.9          7.6          7.3           5.3          5.7           6.0           6A



APPENDI3
Page 4 of 5
IBID DISTRIC7 ELECTRICITY COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATISTICS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
5_____ - -Actual-                                                   -Projected -  - = .
1993         1994        1995           1996          1997          1998          1999          2000
PURCHASED - C;WH                              521          585          654           734           772           824           880            934
SALES - GWH                                   460          517          576           642           674           712           761           808
LOSSES                                       13.4%       13.3%        13.5%          13.6%         13.5%         13.6%         13.5%         13.5%
TARIFF - FILS/RWH SOLD
- PRESENT LEVEL                             32.4         32.7         33.0          37.4           37A          37A            37.4          37.4
-AVERAGEFORYEAR                             31.5         32.7         33.0          35.3           37A          37.4           37A           37.4
- ACTUAL AVERAGE (POST INCREASE)            32.4         32.7         33.0           37.4          37A           37.4          37.4          37.4
TARIFF - USC/KWH SOLD
- AVEARGE FCR YEAR                           4.5          4.6          4.6            5.0           5.3           5.3           5.3           5.3
CHANGE IN YEARS AV TARIFF-%                    5.2          3.9          0.8           7.0           6.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
CHANGE IN TARUFF(SALES M[)-%                                1.0         0.8                          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
PROPOSED INCREASE IN TARIFF-%                  8.1         0.0          0.0           13.5           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
DATE OF PROPOSED INCREASE               6/15/93              0            0   5/1/96                  0             0             0              0
GOVT COMPENSATION-FILS/KWH SOLD                6.0         6.6           5.7           6.6           8.5           8.0           6.8           6.4
OPERATING COSTS-FILShKWH SOLD
PURCHASED POWER                             27.1         29.3          29A           33.6          35.6          35.9          35.9          35.9
OTHER COSTS                                   9.7          9.0          8.9           8.3           8.3           8.2           7.9           7.8
INCOMETAX                                    0.0           0.0         0.1            0.1           0.5           0.4           0.3           0.3
TOTAL OPERATING                             36.8         38.3         38A            42.0          44.4          44.5          44.1          43.9
OPERATING INCOME-FILS/KWH SOLD                 2.0          2.5          1.7           1.6           3.2           2.6           1.7           1.4
OPERATING RATIO - TIMES                      0.95         0.94          0.96          0.96          0.93          0.94          0.96          0.97
DllEREST - FILS/KWH SOLD                       1.6          1.1          1.0           1.2           1.0           0.5           0.4           0.3
FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES-FILS/KWH              0.2          0.8           0.8           0.5           0.3           0.2           0.1           0.0
NET INCOME - FILS/KWH SOLD                    0.9          0.9          0.7            0.7           2.5           2.2           1.5           1.3
GROSS ASSETS - JD 000                      37,180       43,815       46,731        52,044         48,902       48,642         50,129        51,379
NET ASSETS (EQUITY) - JD 000                 5,337       6,318        7,251          7,567         9,538        11,383        12,750        14,083
NET BORROWING- JD 000                       14,697       14,711       15,447        12,608         9,350         7,188         6,002         4,594
RECEIVABLES- DAYS                              86          113          120           113            80            60            60            60
PAYABLE FOR POWER PURCHASE - DAYS                                        24           111            80            60            60            60
CURRENT RATIo - TimES                        0.92         0.85         0.87           0.85          0.86          0.91          0.95          1.02
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO -TIMES                     0.63         0.55         OA7            0.40          0.28          0.19          0.12          0.08
DEBT SERVICE RATIO - TIMES                   0.99          1.02        0.86           0.86          1.68          2.02          2.13          2.88
SELFFINANCINGRAT1O-%                         45.1        101.7         25.1          114.5         139.1         122.9         103.8         108.5
RETURN ON ASSETS - %                          3.8          4.5          3.0            3.1           6.2           5.2           3.4           3.0



Page 5 of 5
JORDAN ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
BASIS OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1. Average tariffs to remain above long run marginal cost (LRMC).
2. Present fuel prices maintained throughout.
3. Present tariffs maintained throughout.
4. Taxes are provided for NEPCO at 15% of taxable income.
5. Dividends of 5% of opening equity have been provided for NEPCO as from 1998. NEPCO
dividends are limited to net income, if net income for year is lower than 5% equity formula. For
JEPCO and IDECO, dividends of 10% of nominal share capital have been provided throughout.
6. NEPCO to sell its investments in JEPCO and IDECO in 1997 for an estimated JD3.8 million.
7. The Government (and not NEPCO) to pay IDECO subsidy from May 1, 1996. The subsidy is
estimated at JD5.7 million per annum. In 1997, IDECO had accumulated unpaid debt service of
JD5 million due to the Ministry of Finance. The new subsidy is designed to restore the financial
viability of IDECO; it allows for the repayment of this backlog over the following five years
(JDI million each year). The JD 1 million repayment is to be settled by means of set-off without
involving the transfer of funds. The Government therefore is to pay a net cash subsidy of JD4.7
million each year.
8. The fnancial projections for each of the three companies provide for the repayment of all
future debt service, including IBRD exchange risks, for which reasonable provisions have been
made.
9. An exchange rate of JDO.71/US$ has been used throughout the forecast period. Annual
domestic inflation is assumed at 4% for 1997, and 3.5% thereafter. Annual foreign inflation is
assumed to range between 2.3% and 2.6%.



Page I of 2
THE HASHEMITE KDIGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ESAL)
National Electric Power CO. - P>ERFORMNIANCE INDICATORS
ELECTRICITY SECTOR    UNIT    1991          1992      1993      1994     1995      1996
Consuiipticn per capiu    kWh      1017     1145       1194     1240      1310   11364
(Actual)                                   _
Gro%'th iSales)                     1.7      17.0      7.6
PopulaLion t ith..\ccss    %       982 9?._            98.9     99.0      99.2     99.6
ENTERPRISE              _                                      _                  ______
Consurmers                000       73.5     76.7       81       85.3     90.4     95.8
Employees                number   203 7    2037       2071      2135    2259       2286
Geneation Capacit%:
Total                      MW       860      860       860       920      986      1078
Steam                      MW       590      590       590       590      590       590
G.Turbines
N.Gas                      MW       60       450        90       120      120       120
Diesel                              170      170       140       170      230      322
Diesel Enuines             MW      40        40        40        40       40        40
Fnerov Sales - total      GWh    2991       3:527     3904      4227    4665       5056
Net Exports               GWh                657       47         -        -
Tmr-missiont (I.'2KV and  C.Km     2693    2693       2693      2773     2773      2811
abovto                                          _
tlime       2.4    _ _         1.4       1.8   |2 3
FINANCIAL
TarilTAverage  Actual)   Filsl l;Wh   24.27    24.3 7  35.1      N.A      3 6.9    40.24
Taril /long-Run Marginal Cost       74.6     87.5      100
(Actual)
Retum on Net Assets                 4.4      6.0       10.5      11.0    11.25      4.9
DebtlEquitv Rauo        ___   4.38           2.63      1.59
Debt Service Coverage     times    0.57      0.85      1.06      1.3      1.39      1.44
Self-Financiinm Ratio                _ -      -        10.4    23.83    28.11      30.2
Cutrernt Rato             times     0.6      0.58      0.64
Collicion Period           days     85        90       103      135.4   141.2    157.8
OPERATIO.NAL                               = =
Customars I'Tr Employiee  number    204      212       191                        _
Sales Pcr lmplov.c        MWbl    1473       1776      1660                 _
S tmnn Losses               %      10.17    9.98       9.6       9.28     9.93     10.03
C;enwraliloll l.osscs               6.6.     6;.6      6.5       6.1      5.8       5.7



APPENDIXA4
Page 2 of 2
ELECTRICITY SECTOR       UNET    1991    1992  |  1993        1994     1995     1996
Trns=m"sion l osses               3.84     3.67      3.1       3.1      3.8      4.8
Ouumes-DIurztion       hacustdear  15.3    36.9      12.4
Gencratiou  Pl;mt Availabilitv    8 88.9    91.0     89.2     S6.S     S9.9      89.3
Steam                             88.6    89.4       S4.4     83.5     87.9      88.4
G.Turbines                        89.5    94.7       94.9     94.2     93.4    .90.6
N.Gas                             74.5    88.4       87.7     94.2     90.5      87.6
Diesel                            95.4    97.3       98.2     94.1     95.3    92.2.
Capacitv Factor                   44.3    53.3       54.0     57.5     58.S    58.7
Svstem Load 'actor                68.0 | 70.84       67.5     70.2     71.3      73.2
Reservc Marain             %       25       25        25
Thermal Eflkreticv 1~     %       33.8    33.1      32.9     32.0    33.1       33.4
Generatins PLamts
S. F . ConuxMpEion (Total)    gramskWh   262  266    289       277      268      266
Steam                             258.4   261.7    263.7    271.5    258.7    254.6
G. Turbines
N. Gas                            284.2   288.8    283.3    281.3    287        289.5
Diesel                            403.3   491.7    423.3    271.4   341.2    314.2
Diesel Engines                    243.8   245.2    248.2   244.6    243.4   243.4
FUEL EFFICIENCY         kraUk_W_h
Total                             2532    2570       2623     2689    2600    2580
Steam                             2506    2538       3528     2634    2509    2470
G.Turbines
N.Gas                             2757    280O 1     2748     2729    2784    2808
Diesel                            3912    4769       4106     3788     3485    3205
Diesl Engines                     2365    237S       2407     2373     2361     2361
FUEL COST               FilsikWh
Total                             10.58    10.94     12.62    14.17    14.09    16.03
Steam                             10.63    10.73     12.85    13.23    12.58    13.98
G. Turbines
N. Gas*                           9.32     9.48      10.48    10.92    11.12    12.92
Diesel                            34.1    56.8      52.07     45.9     42.2      38.8
Diesel Emgin s                    10.96    11.43  J  13.37    13.801 14.08    14.93
* Equivalent Fuel Oil



Page 1 of 4
it of Ener  =d Mia.  Resos'c.s
a d. P//L!Ct ..LLL.... ,5sZ               -________
The world B1ank, Washington, U.S.A.
Mr. Dean N.Jordan
Principal Operation officer.
Fax no: ( 202) 477 1691
Dean Mr.Jordan
Please fmd enclosed herewith copy of the Govermment Policy Statement
for power sector reform in Jordan, which was approved by the Council of
Ministers on Oct.4,1997.
Best Regards
Yours sincerely,
Moham,mad Saleh Hourani
/3Minister of Energy & Mineral Resources
U.
Am'= l         Td,8 63616-19 863326-27;79   AA-AIrIll vTt-iy Aryi A Joa -  O-
P 0. Box 140027   TelG&x 865714                            AA 5Y  t ,r-  I1 a TY .w If ,  .
*sS



Page 2 of 4
GOVERNMENT POLICY STATEMENT
FOR
POWER SECTOR REFORiM
13/110/1997
KhSId.QV0PLC.DOC



APPFMN 
Page 3 of 4
GOVERNMENT POLICY STATEMENT
IFOR
POWER SECTOR REFORM
A. Obiectives.
The Goveunment of Jordan ( 'GOJ") plans to reform its power sector with the
objective of creating an environment for the sustainable development of its power
industry and imnproving  the efficiency and quality of electricity services in tle
country iin order to achieve the following goals:-
1- Electricity will be supplied under the most efficient conditions in terms of
-quality and cost to support the economic development of the country and
meet the electrical power needs of consiuners.
2- The enterprises operating in dte electricity fields should operate on a
commercial basis to be able to moibilize from its own resources the financing
required for upgrade and expansion in order to reduce the burden on the
government's budget.
3- Create the suitable operating and regulatory environment as well as the legal
frame to attract the private sector to invest in the power sector projects and
make actions conducive to competition.
B. Policies.
To further these objectives, GOJ's will adopt the fo}lowing principles and
policies:-
1- Separation of policy making, regulation and operations related to the power
sector . The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) will
overview and supervise as well as formulate the general policies of the
sector, an independent Regulatory Commission (Regulatory Commission)
will regulate the sector and to set-up the electric tariff and electric service
charges , and a number of diffe:rent enterprises of the sector will take the
responsibility of developing, operating as well as investing in this sector.
,iOGOVERPLC.DOC



APPENDIXI
Page 4 of 4
2- iAtact and promote the private sector to invest in electric power sector and
to operate anid manage these projects.
3- Increase the generation capacity by the introduction of independent power
lproducers (IPPs).
4- Develop a regulatory regime that provides transparent, stable and objective
ground mles.
5- }mplement of a tariff regime which ensure the transparency in reflecting the
cost.
6- Continue the development of a regional power interconnection network.
7- Promotion  of environment and safety standards, energy efficiency, loss
reduction and used of renewable energy sources.
8- Corporatization of the functions of National Electric Power Company
(NEPCO) into three ( or more) companies as follows:-
(1) One company (or more) will own and operate the generation stations.
(2) One company will own and operate the transmission network and the
dispatch centers.
(3) One company ( or more) will own and operate the distribution network.
9- The export of electric power produced by the generation companies will be
permitted according to rules and standards to be agreed between the
government and those companies.
10- GOJ will promote initiatives and programs in the field of energy efficiency
and  conservation, loss reduction programs and utilization of renewable
energy resources.
11- The selling price for each type of oil products used in electric power
generation will be unified price for all companies licensed for generation .
An equation should be set-up to reflect variations of different oil prices,
either increase or decrease on the cost of electricity generation per kwh.
lOualdwGOVERPLC.DOC



