Page  1
April 16, 1996
H.E. Rima Khalaf Hunaidi
Minister of Planning
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1220
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
                    Re:    Loan No. 3651 JO
                           (Energy Sector Adjustment Loan)
                           Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
     We refer to the Loan Agreement between us for the above Loan, dated
November 24, 1993 (the Loan Agreement).  The Executive Directors of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") have
recently approved a proposal to simplify disbursements under adjustment
operations, and ongoing operations are eligible to benefit from these new
procedures.
     We are pleased to inform you that we hereby agree to amend the Loan
Agreement as follows:
1.   The words "the financing of urgently needed imports and services
required" in WHEREAS (A) of the Preamble are deleted and the words
"support of the Program" are substituted therefor.
2.   Paragraphs (a) through (e) of Section 1.01 are deleted and the
following paragraphs are substituted therefor:
     "(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
               "'Project' means the Program, referred to in the Preamble
               to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is
               made.";
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (c)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
               "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency
          of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan
          Agreement."
     (d)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
               "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of
               the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the
               provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General
               Conditions. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
               otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
               account of expenditures in the territories of any country
               which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
               in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
               for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,
               or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
               the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of
               the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
               VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (e)  The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (f)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
Page  2
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
               "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
               which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
               inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
               3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.";
     (g)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
               such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
               the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
               furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
               execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to
               the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and
               the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
               Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
               Loan."; and
     (h)  Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08."
3.   The following new paragraph (n) is added to Section 1.02:
          "(n) 'Deposit Account' means the account referred to in
          Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement."
4.   Paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.02 are deleted and the
following paragraphs are substituted therefor:
          "(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) (c) (d) and
          (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
          the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of
          the Program."
          (b)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank
          the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and
          thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in
          US Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
          All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by
          the Bank into the Deposit Account.
5.   The following new paragraphs (c) (d) and (e) are added to Section
2.02:
          (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
          shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to
          the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the Bank
          shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the
          Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure
          so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
          Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to
          the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so
          request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to
          the Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account
          for cancellation.
          (d)  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after
          the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
          Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of $40,000,000,
          unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after a exchange of views
          as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
          evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress
          achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
          and (ii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to
          this Agreement have been taken.  If, after said exchange of
          views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
          the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
          and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
          have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Page  3
          Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
          unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
          (e)  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after
          the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
          Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of $60,000,000,
          unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after a exchange of views
          as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
          evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress
          achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
          and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to
          this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of
          views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
          the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
          and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
          have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
          Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
          the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
6.   Section 3.02 is amended as follows:
          "Section 3.02 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
          procurement of the services to be financed out of the proceeds
          of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
          to this Agreement."
7.   Section 3.03 (b) (i) is amended as follows:
          "Section 3.03 (b) (i) have the records and accounts referred
          to in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
          Deposit Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
          with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
          independent auditors acceptable to the Bank."
8.   Schedule 1 is deleted and the new Schedule 1 set forth in the
Attachment to this Amendment is substituted therefor.
9.   Schedule 3 is amended by deleting paragraphs 1 through 6, and
paragraph 7 is renumbered as paragraph 1.
10.  The title for Part A of Schedule 4 is revised to read: "Actions
Referred to in Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement." The title for Part B
of Schedule 4 is revised to read "Actions Referred to in Section 2.02
(e) of this Agreement."
11.  Schedule 5 is deleted.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing, dating
and returning to us the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of
this letter.
                             Very truly yours,
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                            By /s/ Inder K. Sud
                               Inder K. Sud
                                 Director
                           Country Department II
                    Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Rima Khalaf Hunaidi
Page  4
       Authorized Representative
Date:  June 3, 1996
                             SCHEDULE 1
                        Excluded Expenditures
      For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.    expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other than
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance
under another loan or a credit;
3.    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group          Description of Items
      112             -              Alcoholic beverages
      121             -              Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                     refuse
      122             -              Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                     containing tobacco substitutes)
      525             -              Radioactive and associated materials
      667             -              Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                     stones, unworked or worked
      718         718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                     fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                     irradiated, for nuclear reactors
      728.43          -              Tobacco processing machinery
      897         897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                     group metals (except watches and watch
                                     cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                     wares (including set gems)
      971             -              Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                     ires and concentrates)
4.    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.    expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods for purposes of
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods,
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a
party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and
6.    in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied
from, such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
7.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
Page  5
the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the  Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of services, limited to an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, on account of consultants'
services which shall be required, in the judgment of the Borrower and
with the agreement of the Bank, to assist the Borrower in the preparation
of the Power Sub-sector Plan, energy conservation, the MEMR
Reorganization Plan and the Environmental Regulations.
