D_cument of
The World Bank
WOk OMFCL USE ONLY
C fiP iS-13- So
Rep,t No. P-3911-SO
- I
REPORT AND RECOIIMNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP1MENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 10.7 MILLION (US910.6 KlLION) CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II
December 14, 1984
llis docment 1 s a leslted d_ismuI ad my be ed by recipiuts only in the peofnmmee o
tledr olffid  dude.. lb coumeaf may not oc_ewis be discoed wihout Weddl BDak _nhodiatis.-



CURRENC! EQUIVALENTS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)  -  100 cents
US$1.00  - So.Sh. 26426
S..
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)           8    10,000 u2
I Square Kilometer (1cm2)        100 ha
I Metric ton (mit)             1,000 kg
ABBREVTATIONS
ADC      -   Agricultural Development Corporation
EEC           European Economic Community
GOS           Government of Somalia
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IFAD    3    International Fund for Agricultural Development
OA.      -   Ministry of Agriculture
XES           N National Extension Service
ONAT     -   Tractor Hiring Agency
PHC     m-   kroject Ministerial Committee
PHU     -    Project Management Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SDA           Settlement Development Agency
SDB      '   Somali Development Bank
GOVESNENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALTA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEMI PROJECT - PHASE II
CREDIT AMD PROJECT SUMMARY
*        Borrower:            Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:              SDR  10.7 million (US$10.6 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Cofinancing:         SDR 7.05 million (US$7.0 million) equivalent
concessionary loan from the International Fund for
Agricultural Development and US$5.4 million equivalent
grant from the European Economic Community.
Project Description:
Objectives:       Over a five-year period, the project would (i) increase
small rainfed farmer incomes and subsistence through
improved production of grains (sorghum and maize) by
soil and moisture conservation, adaptive research,
extension, farmer training and the supply of farm
inputs, (ii) increase fruit and vegetable production
from smll irrigated gardens through consarrction of
new gardens, rehabilitation of existing gardens,
technical support, research, extension and the supply
of farm inputs and (iii) strangthen local institutional
capacity to implement projects and to improve services
to farmers.
Components:  (a)  Rainfed components would include soil and water
conservation works on 25,000 ha, a pilot watershed
program and appropriate extension and research.
(b)  Irrigation components would include 50 small irrigated
farms, appropriate extension and research and
establishment of a new horticultural research farm.
(c)  Water points
(d) Farm input and equipment supply
(e) Training
(f) Project Management Unit
(g) Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agricultural Development at
Kurtun-Waarey and Sablaale.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancc of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:    The principal benefits would be increased production of
sorghum, maize, fruits and vegetables estimated at full
development (year 10) to be about US$3.4 million annually;
increased farzm household income for rainfed farmers, from
So.Sh. 12,530 (US$480) to 33,170 (US$1,260) and for
irrigated farmers So.Sh. 81,120 (US$3,090).  The project
would affect 42,000 persons in rainfed and 3,000 persons in
irrigated farming and create additional job opportniities in
the agricultural sector in the region.  The project would
continue the process of institution building to sustain the
provision of services to farmers and involve private sector
participation in input supply and marketing.
Risks:       Project risks include security in the region and continuity
of staff employed in the project. Security problems have
diminished but such risks in the project area cannot be
excluded. Staff incentives applied in the first project
would continue to be used in Phase II, thus helping to
attract and retain qualified staff.
Project Components                          Local    Foreign   Total
- US$ Millio
Rainfed Components                            2.8       6.6       9.4
Irrigation Components                         0.5       2.2      2.7
Water Points                                  0.3       0.3       0.6
Farm Input and Equipment Supply              0.2        3.2      3.4
Training                                     --         0.7      0.7
Project Management Unit                       1.0       1.4      2.4
Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agricultural
Development                                0.2        0.4      0.6
Subtotal                                     5.0       14.8     19.8
Physical Contingencies                       0.5        0.7      1.2
Price Contingencies                           1.1       3.5      4.6
Total                                         6.6      19.0     25.6
Financing Plan
IDA Credit                                 2.0        8.6     10.6
IFAD                                       1.5        5.5      7.0                     4
EEC                                        0.5        4.9      5.4
Government of Somalia                      2.6       -  -      2.6
Total                                         6.6      19.0     25.6
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY              19R6    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
(US$ Million)-
IDA:  Annual            1.0     3.4     2.2      1.7     1.55     0.75
Cumulative       1.0      4.4     6.6     8.3      9.85    10.6
Estimated Economic Rate of Return:    16%



INTERNATIONAl. DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RPORT AND RECOI4JENDATION OF THE PRESIDET
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A NORTH WEST REGION
AGR1EULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT PHASE II
1. *     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 10.7 million (US$10.6
million equivalent) to help finance the North West Region Agricultural
Development Project Pbase II. The IFAD has agreed to co-finance the
project with a loan of US$7.0 million equivalent, on concessionary teris
and conditions to be determined. The EEC is expected also to cofinance the
project, with a grant of US$5.4 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Agricultural Sector Review in three volumes (Report No.
2881a-SO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1981. A
report on the economy entitled: -Somalia - Policy Measures for
Rehabilitation and Growth- (Report No. 408la-SO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1983. An economic mission visited Soualia In
May 1984; its prelininary conclusions are reflected in this report.
The Resource Base
3.        Somalia is a large, sparsely populated country; its varied
topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Its population
of about 5 million (including 500,000 refugees) is unevenly distributed
over a land area of nearly 630,000 sq km of semi-desert. Population growth
in recent years has been approaching 3 percent (excluding refugee inflows)
which will result in long-term pressure on the fragile resource base. Only
about 13 percent of the land is suitable for cultivation, but with water
the limiting constraint, only a small fraction (8.5 percent) of this
potentially arable land is cultivated.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
Over 60 percent of the people depend on livestock for their livelihood;
about 20 percent are farmers; and 20 percent are engaged in various
agricultural operations. Livestock production accounts for about 35
percent of GDP and provides over 8D percent of export earnings. Crop
production generates about 8 percent of GDP. Although Somalia has one of
the longest coastlines (3,000 ku) in Africa, fisAing generates only about 2
percent of both GDP and employment.



-2-
5.        The country's limited natural resource bae and its uncertain
energy potential account for the scarcity of ecotmaically viable investment
opportunities.  Apart from the traditional e pert of livestock, coImercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the productilon and export of bananas
and the production of sugar for the domestic market.  Expansion of the
manufacturing and service sectotls La limit*d by the small size of the
domestic market, poor infrastructure, and shortages of capit3l and
entrepreneurial experience.  The existence of several mirarals has been
confirmed, but their exploration is still at an early stage, and the
commercial viability of production remains to be proved.
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in inshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no comercially Viable oil
prospects have emerged. Hovever, investigations under an IDA project for
petroleum exploration promotion have indicated possible natural gas
reserves near Mogadishu which could be used for power generation in
substitution for petroleum Imports. An IDA credit to finance the first
phase of a two-stage program for the development of the gas reserves was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 1, 1984. In the absence of
other known resources, Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and
livestock development, whose progress will depend upon careful management
of the scarce land and water resources.
7*        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at $266 in 1982. Other indicators of the country's
low level of social and economic development include: a crude death rate
estimated at 25 per thousand population (compared to a crude birth rate of
48 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 40 years-; an infant
mortality rate as high as 150 per thousand population; primary and
secondary enrolment ratios of 50 percent and 7 percent, respectively; and a
ratio of nearly 20,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of 'scientific socialism" whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 19709 included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
-and which dominated manufacturing.
9.        In the early 1970s Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
notable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health where services bave frequently been biased in favor of the urban
population.  Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.



-3-
10.       On the production side, during the 1970s the Somali economy
experienced stagnation in production and a decline in per capita income.
Only the services sector grew during the period, by 3.5 percent per year
and the growth in government services, at an annual rate of about 7
percent, was particularly striking. Since the beginning of 1981, the
economy witnessed a reversal of the past trend, with real GDP in 1981-82
growing on average by 6.4 percent per year notwithstanding some decline in
the services sector.
11.       Over 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in neighboring
oil-exporting countries in the Gulf area.  As labor migration has been
neither organized nor controlled by the Government, it has led to a severe
depletion of Somalia's already small stock of qualified and skilled
manpower, thereby weakening institutions and reducing the country's
absorptive capacity. The savings of thqse emigrants are potentially an
important resource for the economy, but despite substantial adjustment of
the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants' savings is
remitted, largely through unofficial channels.
12.       Following a border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78, there was a
great surge in Government expenditures which resulted in widened deficits
in both the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the
Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of
the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill
associated with the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for
secondary school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid
declined. This resulted in Government recourse to deficit financing. With
further deterioration in the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's
recourse to the Central Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of
GDP). This, in turn, led to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60
percent in 1980.
13.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete and
provide a very deficient basis for analyzing trade and capital movements.
It may nevertheless be concluded that Somalia had a reasonably comfortable
overall balance of payments position up to the beginning of 1979. The
stagnatior in exports and surge in imports since 1979 resulted in a
widening of both the current and overall- balance of payments deficits. The
current account deficit during 1980-83 averaged $290 million, as compared
to $110 million in the years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which
rose st:eadily in the 1970s to $158 million in March 1979, dropped to $15
million at the end of December 1980, and have since then remained at about
this level (about tWo weeks' imports).
14.       The stagnation of export earnings and the low level of domestic
savings have rendered Somalia increasingly dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and
transfers from 1975 onwards indicate that the effort has been successful.
After 1977, the sources of foreign assistance shifted from the centrally



-4-
planned economies (except for the People's Republic of China, which
maintains a large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral
institutions and OECD countries, several of which have had substantial
assistance programs for a number of years. According to OBCD data,
Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period 1980-1982 averaged $400 million
per year, equivalent to some $90 per capita per year.
15.       Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amounted to about $1,500 million at end 1983, representing about
fifteen times the value of recorded exports in that year.  The structure
and terms of borroving have also hardened. As a result, the country's debt
service burden has steeply grown. The debt service ratio rose from 7
percent in 1979 to 27 percent in 1982 and is projected (without debt
relief) at over 100 percent in 1985. The country has also accumulated debt
service arrears. IMF and the World Bank staff have encouraged the
Government to seek debt relief, where possible on concessional terms.
16.       In sum, Somalia experienced in the late 1970s and into the early
1980s an economic and financial crisis characterized by: stagnation in
production and exports; a rapidly rising budget deficit flnanced through
recourse to the banking system; rapidly rising inflation; a worsening
balance of payments situation; a critical loss of foreign reserves; and a
worsening external debt situation. This crisis reflected not only adverse
developments in the international economy, but also past and current
weaknesses in economic management.
Policy Changes
17.       As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the
Government became convinced of the need to take remedial action and
embarked on a course of moving towards a more market-orLented economy.
Beginning in early 1981, the Covernment successfully implemented two
successive stabilization programs supported by IMF standby arrangements.
The measures taken under these programs incluJid adjustment of the exchange
rate, fiscal and monetary restraint, and de fac.o liberalization of
agricultural marketing. Under the first sta-edby program, c dual excbange
rate vas introduced, producer prices for agricu7tural crops were increased,
and banana growers received the full benefit of devaluation. This program
also involved a substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking
system and increased interest rates.
18.     . Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, a new
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with an
SDR 60 million 18-month standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. Under this program, several key policy measures were
taken: the dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982, the Somali
shilling was further devalued, and interest rates were further raised. The
Government also further restricted fiscal and monetary expansion.
Furthermore, in January 1983, a bonus scheme was introduced providing for a
premium of 25 percent in foreign exchange terms of inward remittances and
capital inflows by Somali nationals. These actions were reinforced In
mid-1983, when Somalia introduced a more flexible exchange rate system.
Under the new arrangement the Somali shllling was pegged to the SDR
adjusted by the relative rates of inf tion between Somalia and the five



-5-
countries in the SDR basket. However, the beneficial effects of these
measures were overshadowed by the negative impact of a ban on Somali cattle
imports by Saudi Arabia (which has been in effect since May 1983) and by
the impact of a drought that began in 1983 and continued into 1984.
19.       In a courageous action, the Government decided in 1983 to abandon
its policy of guaranteed employment to high school leavers. An
interministerial committee reviewed the future of public enterprises and
the Government is now in the process of determining which public
enterprises should be phased out of operation, which privatized, and which
retained in the public sector.   Another step to liberalize the economy was
the de facto elimination of the Government monopsony on grain purchases.
20.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government from 1981-83,
are quite significant and they had a positive impact on the economy.
Reductions were effected in the rate of-growth of the money supply, in
Government recourse to the banking system, and in the rate of inflation.
These measures, which also resulted in increasing commodity production and
exports, represent the first stage in the formulation and implementation of
a policy agenda directed simultaneously at restoring financial equilibrium,
rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing agricultural and
industrial productive capacity, and establishing the foundations of
long-term growth.
21.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia. It then proceeded to prepare
a Medium-Term Recovery Program (MTRP) for presentation to the Consultative
Group meeting. As outlined by the Government in a paper entitled
'Development Strategy and Public Investment Programme for 1984-86", the
KWP consists of (i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring
equilibrium in the balance of payments and public finances and at
rationalizing the pricing and incentive structure; and (ii) a
resource-constrained Public Investment Program for the period 1984-86. The
formulation of this recovery program represented a major accomplishment.
22.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held in October 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial
measures taken by the Government under the 1981-83 stabilization programs
and by the Government's pursuit of its new policies. In particular,
participants appreciated the formulation of the public investment program
and the emphasis in the program on rehabilitation and improved utilization
of existing facilities. The participants welcomed in particular,the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program at the Consultative Group meeting. These
adjustments included postponing some new projects (including the Bardhere
Dam and associated investments, pending results of new studies), rephasing
the implementation of ongoing projects and introducing new high-priority
schemes such as the rehabilitation of irrigation in the Shebelli region.
Participants at the meeting responded favorably to the external aid
requirements of the public investment prograu and other elements in the



-6-
recovery program for 1984-86. It was recognized at the meeting that
further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly concessional terms and
that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief on concessional terms.
23.       Following the Consultative Group meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors were held concerning follow-up action on
the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed Bardhere Dam,
and agreement has been reached with the Bank on terms of reference and a
timetable for a study of interim water solutions; the study is being
financed under an IDA TA credit.  IDA has also granted a PPF to finance the
preparation of a scheme for rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in
the Shebelli region. The Government has also negotiated verbal
arrangements for debt relief with some of its creditors  A USAID civil
service study has been reviewed by the Government. Some initial measures
under consideration to improve the civil service are; reduce the size,
reassign staff to other economic activity, intensify training programs and
gradually improve the salary structure.
24.       After ef-fectively implementing the 1981-83 stand-by arrangements,
the Government approached the I N for further balance of payments support
under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to deal with the country's structural
and short- to medium-term financial problems. Agreement in principle on
such a program was reached in early 1984, but in the event key measures
were not implemented, and neither an EFF nor a standby arrangement was put
into effect during 1984.
Recent Developments
25.       After having improved markedly between mid-1981 and late 1983, in
1984 the Somali economy came under increasing stress. This situation
emerged from (i) the acute shortage of foreign exchange due to the fall in
livestock exports (Ui) a drop In domestic food production owing to a
drought in 1983 and the lateness of rain in early 1984; and (iii) the March
1984 Government decision not to go ahead with the IWF program. Following
the breakdown of the stabilization program, the exchange rate in the
parallel market has fallen steeply. In addition, there has been a sharp
acceleration in monetary expansion, fueled largely by a rapid expansion in
net credit to the Government. The money supply in 1984 is expected to rise
by about 74 percent, as compared to less than 5 percent in 1981. As a
result, domestic inflation rose from 32 percent in 1983 to over 90 percent
in 1984.
26.    As the economy deteriorated, the Government came to realize the need
for new corrective measures. Followiag an IMF mission and a parallel Bank
mission in early Senteuber 1984, the Government further adjusted the
exchange rate. During the 1984 Bank/Fund Annual Meeting discussions, the
Minister of Finance reiterated Somalia's commitment to a recovery program
emphasizing development of the productive sectors, rehabilltation and full



-7-
utilization of existing capacities, and encouragement of the private
sector. The Minister also confirmed the Government's decision to reopen a
policy dialogue with the IMF.
27.       An INF mission visited Somalia during October 23- November 7,
1984.  The IMF mission negotiated, ad referendum, a stand-by arrangement
for 1985. A Bank mission in the field, at the same time, vorked in close
cooperation with the IMF mission to review the 1985 public investment
*      program and to advise Fund staff on issues from the standpoint of the
Bank. The stand-by arrangement is expected to be reviewed by the IMF
Executive Directors in January 1985. The Bank has also agreed to the
government request to organize a second Consultative Group meeting,
tentatively scheduled for October 1985.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
28.       Bank Group gross commitments to Somalia to date total US$228
million, consisting of 26 IDA credits and one IFC lnvestment. Ten projects
are under implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has
been for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. IFC has so far made one investment in Somalia - a
US$375,000 loan for a molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar Project. IFC is
now actively considering a polypropyline bag project. Annex II contains a
asumary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30,
1984.
29.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in
Somalia has been mixed, and some have not done well. Progress of the
North West Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase I has been
excellent, and the main production targets estimated at appraisal have been
met or exceeded. Projects for roads, ports, water and education have been
more successful than in the agricultural sector. Many IDA-financed
projects have experienced delays in execution. Staffing and management
problems have impeded effective preparation and implementation of
projects. Problems with projects in execution were brought to the
attention of Government authorities during the last country implementation
review, which was held in Somalia in June 1984. At that time
understandings were reached on the restructuring of several projects in
execution.
30.       Somalia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been satisfactory. The FY84 disbursement rate was 27.9
percent, as compared to 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4 percent
Bank-wide.



-8-
Assistance Strategy
31.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
domestic and external resource mobillxation and allocation, Improve pricing
administration and marketing systems, and to increase productloa and
exports   We aim to support further use of existing capacity and to help
lay the foundations for longer term growth.  Our economic and sector work
program strives to support the macroeconomic reform process, and to provide
analytical inputs for the work of the Consultative Group for Somalia. We
are giving particular attention to aid management issues, and are now
undertaking an assessment of technical assistance to Somalia jointly wLth
the UNDP. An energy assessment is underway, and a review of population,
health and nutrition issues iS ln preparation. Plans are now being
completed for a collaborative review with the Government and donors of
major issues in the agricultural sector. We are cooperating with the
government in the preparation and review of periodically updated publlc
investment and expenditure programs, at both the global and, increasingly,
at the sector level. The Advisory Committee for Juba Valley Developoment
established by the Consultative Group at its October 1983 meeting provides
an important forum for review and collaboration on issues affecting the
development of Somalia's major water resource. Issues in public enterprise
reform are expected to become an increasingly important component of our
policy dialogue. In our lending work, we plan to emphasize productive
investments and rehabilitation programs. An irrigation rehabilitation
project is being prepared to help increase productivity and farmer income
in the Shebelli Valley. A technical assistance project is under
consideration, as is also a project for the development of the gas
resources at Afgoy being defined under the Afgoy Gas Delineation Project.
Projects have been cofinanced with a number of other donors, and this is
expected to continue in the future.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
32.       IDA disbursements represent about eight percent of total aid
flows to Somlia. We expect that this relationship will continue at about
the same level during the aext several years.  IDA obligations represent
about 12 percent of Somalia's total outstanding and disbursed debt up to
December 31, 1983. Debt service payments to IDA represent a very small
proportion of Somalia's total debt service obligations. In 1984, payments
to IDA were estimated at about one percent of total debt service payments
for that year. This trend is expected to continue in the future.



-9-
PART  ml -  The Agricultal Sector
33_       The Somali economy is dominated by the livestock sector, ubich
provides a living to the large nomadic popuLation and generates 35 percent
of GDP. Exports of live aniuals represent about 80 percent of total
exports. Crop        tion generates about 8 percent of GDP and roughly the
sine sbare of exports. Rainfed crop production is based primarily upon
sorghum. Crop production under controLlad irrigation is centered on
bananas (tbe principal cash crop and the second largest ezport comodity),
sugar cane, rice and maize; production nuder flood irrigation comprises
mainly maize and sesame. Fish and fish products accouat for about 3
percent of exports and their share of GDP does not exceed 2 percent.
34.       The Association has committed about US$72 million since 1970 to
help finance seven agricultural projects in Somalia. Pive are still being
implemented. The projects focus on agricultural extenslon, drought
rehabilitation, range management and rural development. Project
implementation bas been mixed and some projects have not done well
(para.29). An Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 2881a-90) distributed
to the Exective Directors in June 1981 emphasized the need to strengthen
and develop certain key areas of the agriculture and fisheries sector in
particular activities generating increased production of exports in the
short-run. As noted above (para. 31), a new agricultural sector revIew is
about to start in collaboration with the Goverm ent and otber donor
agencies active in the sector; this review is expected to update the 1981
study, and provide a basis for future investment planning in the sector.
35.       Joint studies on grain marketing and pricing issues have been
undertaken by a Somali-IEBRD team; they are expected to contribute to
implementation of the Government's decision to liberalize agricultural
marketing and pricing. In addition, a major study on agricultural inputs
and supply institutions has recently been completed by consultants. These
studies are expected to fors a major part of our agricultural sector
dialogue in the period ahead. The objectives of the Association's
assistance to the agriculture sector are to increase production and
exports, to improve financial and marketing conditions in part by
expansion of private sector incentives and opportunities, and the
establisbment of additional export narkets to increase foreign exchange.
The North-West Region
36.       After the two major river valleys of the south, the north-Rest
region is the most important part of the country in terms of population
density and agricultural activity. The region's total area of some 3.5
million hectares contains less than 100,000 hectares of land suitable for
cropping. The major part of this is concentrated in a relatively narrow
band in the plateau districts of largeisa, Gebiley and Boorama. The region
has some 450,000 inhabitants, most of these being concentrated in Rargeisa,
the country's second largest city (300,000) and the other urban centers
(50,000).



- 10 -
37.       A wide range of services is provided by Government to the
agricultural sector. These services include agricultural extension, anial1
health, domestic and livestock water supply development, forestry, credit
and mrkketilg. All of the institutions involved, including the Ministry of
Agriculture (RDA) suffer from budgetary constraints, shortages of trained
staff, transport and housing.
38.       Stock-rearing is the most important economic activity In the
area. i: constitutes the traditional pursuit of the nomad families, though
many of them have become partially sedentary and practice rainfed
agriculture along with stock-rearing. Irrigated agriculture has expanded
in a spontaneous manner over recent years and at present about 760 hectares
are irrigated. Dryland farmers have limited options in a region where the
rainfall regime is unreliable, and where work must be carried out carefully
to conserve soil Aoisture and prevent erosion. Most rain comes in short
intensive storms causing rapid runoff, flash floods and severe erosion.
Scarce rain aad other water resources are the principal constraints to crop
production since temperatures would allow year round cropping. Other
constraints include the supply of agricultural equipment ad inputs, poorly
organized marketing, lack of extension services, and medium-term credit.
39.       The bulk of production is in private hands. There are, however,
some cooperatives of two -ain types: (a) service cooperatives (6, with
1,194 members) which serve as intermediaries between individual farmers and
state organizations of the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) and
the Tractor Hiring Agency (ONAT), and (b) 17 group farm cooperatives with a
total membership of 1,042 members participating in collective cultivation.
The tocal firming area for all cooperatives does not exceed 3,000 hectares.
40.       Staff turnover in the north-vest is high due to the relatively
harsh local conditions and isolation from the mainstream of social and
political life and chances of promotion. In the absence of a solid-
institutional presence ia the north-west region, it was deemed necessary to
=orm. a Project Management Unit (PMU) to implement the first project under a
Project Ministerial Committee (PMC). Most agricultural service activities
have been vested in the PMU which carried out farm and water development,
developed its own research and extension and imported small supplies of
basic inputs for farm demonstration. While this arrangement has worked
well, it is no substitute for soundly staffed and adequately financed
national institutioas and this will be addressed in the proposed project
(para. 60)
41.       Implementation of the first phase IDA-financed project was
delayed by about two years after loan signing, due to postponements in
effectiveness and the security situation in the region.  However, by June
30, 1984, the project had constructed bunds2/ on about 17,000 ha thus
protecting an area of about 32,000 ha representing 120 percent of appraisal
estimates.  Project farms bunded are 5,250, equivalent to 200 percent of
appraisal estimate.  In addition, the 50 livestock and 100 human water
points planned under the project have been constructed, thus improving the
supply of water for a part of the dry season. Targets for buildings and
procurement have been achieved; progress has been made in the construction
of one hectare irrigated gardens (20 completed -- representing 40 percent
of the appraisal estimate) and a start made in the provision of
2/ Banks of earth, triangular in vertical section, 1 m high and 2 m wide
at the base and about 120 m in length constructed on the contour at
approximately 2 bunds per ha.



- 11 -
extension services for dryland and irrigated agriculture in the project
area. Average annual incremental sorghum yields derived from sample field
measurements during 1980 through 1983 have been In the range of 55 percent
to 78 percent of bunded as opposed to unbunded lands.
42.       The first project made provision for partial cost recovery from
beneficiaries.  The amount to be recovered is limited to 15 percent of the
10-year average incremental yield. This represents about 50 percent of the
actual costs of banding. The cost recovery scheme was agreed by IDA in
1983, and letails of farmer indebtedness were calculated and subsequently
passed to the Treasury in 1984. However, repayments have not yet started
because of the present severe drought in the region. Government has
signalled its intention to proceed with the cost recovery scheme as soon as
practicable.
43.       The first project has been wefl managed, often under extremely
difficult circumstances of local political unrest and external security
hazards. It has demonstrated the technical, feasibility and financial
attractiveness of the technology applied. While the operations initiated
under the first project would continue during the second phase, major
emprasis would be placed on the integration of the various support service
operations such as extension, input supply, credit and marketing into the
national iDstitutions.
PART IV - TEE PROJECr
44.       The project was appraised in March 1984, and the Staff Appraisal
Report No. 5292-SO, dated November G., 1984 is being circulated  -
separately. A supplementary project data sheet is attactahz  as Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on November 5-9, 1984. -The
Government delegation was led by the Vice Minister of Agriculture, Dr.
Mohammad Abdi Nur.
Project Objectives
45.       Over a five year period, the project would (i) iacrease small
rainfed farmer incomes and subsistence tihrough improved production of
grains (sorghum and maize) through soil and moisture conservation, adaptive
researcb, extension, farmer training and the supply of farm inputs, (ii)
increase fruit and vegetable production from the small irrigated gardens
through construction of new gardens, rehabilitation of existing gardens,
technical support, research, extension and the supply of farm inputs and
(iii) strengthen local institutional capacity to implement projects and to
services to farmers. These objectives, and the detailed project design,
are responsive to the concern in the IDA assistanEe strategy (para.31) to
increase production, to improve public sector efficiency, and improve
resource mobilization and allocation.
Project Rationale
46.       As shown above, the agricultural sector dominates the economv.
Although the country possesses an abundance of land relative to its small
population, the low and variable rainfall (less than 600 mm per annum in



-12-
most places) places considerable constraints on both livestock and crop
production. In the North-West of Somalia, pressures placed on its laod
resources are exacerbated by restricted access of Somali nomads to
traditional grazing in the neighboring Ogaden Region and the absorption of
several hundred thousand refigqes from disputed border territories.
Consequently, Government is placing high emphasis on sedentarizatios of
nomads through exploitation of available resources, particularly In rainfed
agriculture. The Bank-is assisting with these efforts; the first phase of
the project, pilot work on semi-mechanized farming In the area between the
Juba and Shebelli Rivers and the Bay Region Project are examples of the
strategy. Dissemination of appropriate technologies would be facilitated
by the Farm  at and Extension/Training Project vhich is under
Implementation .
47.       A promising start has been made under the first phase. TLe
project has contributed to more secure food and water supply for the
already settled population in the North-West. The proposed project will
consolidate and expand these achievements and will help relieve the chronic
and sometimes acute shortages of staple grains, and lessen the dependence
on food imports and relief operations.
48.       While agricultural operations under these marginal rainfall
conditions always present some risks, the proposed project is based on
valuable experience on pilot works which were first started in 1954 and on
six years of in-field experience under the ongoing project. Consultants to
provide technical assiEstance and prepare a feasibility study for a second
phase of the project were provided under the first phase project. During
this period, a resource inventory and exploratory drilling for groundwater
were also completed. Thus the work already conducted has improved the data
base and provided solid experience for the identification and preparation
of the project proposed in this report. During implementation of the first
phase, a strong Somali management team, assisted by ezpatriate staff, has
been built up.
49.       The proposed second phase project would build on a s*ccessful and
attractive technology and a tested management team. The technological
achievements need to be refined and consolidated, while the support
services need to be expanded and linked with the national institutions.
Continued Bank involvement is therefore needed to further the development
of appropriate technology and institutions to establish a sustainable
system of extension, input supply and marketing in conjunction with the
private sector. In addition, support is needed for the development of the
region's potential water resources through continued intervention in
small-scaled irrigation. These components of the project would be financed
by the European Economic Community (EEC).
Project Description
50.       The project would be implemented by the existing Project
Management Unit (PMU) of the Ministry of Agri:ulture (MOA) under the
overall policy guidance of the Project Ministerial Committee (PMC). The
project would expand the present soil and moisture conservation works onto
25,000 ha of accessible cultivable farm land In the region, undertake a
pilot watershed progran based on selected catchments, and develop an
additional 50 ha of small irrigated garjens, 100 human water points and 50



- 13 -
livestock water yards. It would also provide support servieie for
research, extension, and in conjunction with the private sector, for farm
inputs.  Medium-term credit would be provided through the Somali
Development Bank (SDB). The project would continue to provide support to
the PMU, technical assistance and training.  In addition, funds would be
provided to continue a pilot redearch program on semi-mechanized farming
and project preparation at Kurtun-Waarey and SabLaale; this component would
be implemented by the Settlement Development Agency which is under the
Ministry of Agriculture. The project components are described In the
following paragraphs.31
51.       Rainfed Soil and Water Conservation Works (USS7.3 million). The
project would finance additional machinery and equipment to carry out soil
and water conservation works, such as bunding, terracing and contour
hedging, together with operating costs, materials for the pilot watershed
program, labor for soil and water conservation vorks, and an
internationally recruited soil conservation officer, surveyor and chief
mechanic would be financed. Furthermore, the project has financed under
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) aerial photography and mapping and
short-term technical assistance for preparatory watershed managememt
design.
52.       Rainfed Dryland Farming Extension (US$1.5 million).  The dryland
farming extension service, programmed on the basis of regular vIsits to the
farmers to explain methods of improving production technologies, would be
expanded to provide assistance to farmers whose fields were bended under
Phase I as well as those of Phase II. Vehicles and equipment and operatlog
costs for the five teams, together with an internationally recruited
extension and training officer. would be finamced.
53.      Rainfed Research (US$0.6 Million).  The project would finance
vehicles and equipment, operating costs and modest improvements to the
facilities at Aburin Farm where adaptive research trials would be
conducted.
54.       Irrigated Small Garden Development (US$0.4 MilLion).  The project
would develop fifty new one ha irrigated gardens. In addition, the project
has financed under the PPF short-ters technical assistance in small
irrigated garden design.
55.       Irrigated Horticultural Extension Service (US$1.2 Million).  The
horticultural extension service would be expanded to five teams to provide
assistance to all existing small-scale irrigation farmers in the area. The
project would finance vehicles and equipment, operating costs, and the
serviceds of an internationally recruited horticultural extension officer
and short-term consultancy for project preparation for future irrigation
development in the region.
56.       Irrigated New Horticultural Research Farm (US$1.1 Million).  The
existing station at Geed Deeble is no longer suitable due to its remote
location and with a water supply system which cannot irrigate more than
3 ha. There is no possibility of an alternative water supply. Therefore,
the project would finance the cost of development of a new 30 ha site,
vehicles and equipment and operating costs.
3/  All amounts in this section are shown at baseline cost in November 1984
prices.                            _



- 14 -
57.       Water Points (US$0.6 Million).  As vater is a ujor constraint in
the region, the project would continue to develop human and livestock vater
supplies within the bunded farming areas. A further 100 human water points
and 50 livestock water yards would be financed.
58.       Farm Input and Equipment (US$3.4 Million).  To overcome the
chronic shortage and intermittent. and umtimely delivery of inputs which are
important for increasing production yields, the project would initiate a
system of farm input supply through private wholesalers/retailers (para.
70).  This would help fill the gap left by failure of the Tractor Hiring
Agency (ONAT) and the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) to supply
inputs to farmers in a timely way. The PMU would purchase and resell to
wholesale/retail merchants ox-drawn equipment, sprayers, scraper boards for
bund maintenance, pumpsets, piping, hand tools, fertilizer, insecticides,
pesticides and seeds. An internationally recruited input supply and
marketing officer would be employed for a period of 48 months.
59.       Training (US$0.7 Million).  Overseas training would be provided
through a mixture of courses from 2 to 10 months for 29 staff members in
various disciplines of agronomy, conservation, economics, sociology,
monitoring and evaluation, mechanics and inventory control. In addition,
one 2-year course in finance and 3 post-graduate courses in agronomy, soil
conservation and dryland agriculture would be financed.  Farmer training
-would be carried out through the dryland and horticultural extension
services.
v         60.       Project Management Unit (US$2.4 Million).  The project would
continue to provide support through the provision of vehicles, house and
office furnishings and equipment, stores equipment and fuel storage, an
-         interntionally recruited technical advisor to the general manager, sid a
financial controller. Operating costs of the project management unit for
staff, the renovation of the warehouse handed over by ADC to the project,
rent and maintenance of buildings, vehicle operating costs and office
expenses would be financed.  In addition, short-term consultancies in
monitoring and evaluation and a study of government recurrent
expenditures would be financed under the project.
61.       Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agricultural Development (US$0.6
Million). The project would provide funds to the Ministry of Agriculture
to ensure continuation of the large-scale testing of semi-mechanized
*       rainfed technology at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale.   A Bank mission In May
- 1984 recommended that a further phase of two years would be required to
carry out further field testing of the production technology-and to gain
experience in the creation of instltutional arrangements which could ensure
sustained and stable production in the settlement areas.   Arrangement.
have been wade to fund the cost of the first of the two years of
continuation from the Bay Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
=        (Credit 972-SO), while the second year would be financed under this
project.
Project Costs
62.       Total project cost is estimated at So.Sh. 1,196.0 million
(US$25.6 million), including a foreign exchange component of US$19.0
million (74 percent). Investments under the project are free of duties and



- 15 -
taxes * The cost estimates are based on March 1984 figures updated to
November 1984 baseline price levels and are derived from the preparation
report, recent quotations and appraisal estimates. No physical
contingencies have been provided for technical assistance, training and
input supplies-10 percent has been provided for all other project
components. Price contingencies have been separately calculated for the
foreign exchange and local currency components and total about 23 percent
of base costs.
63.       A PPF advance of US$500,000 was approved in March 1984 to cover
the estimated foreign costs of: aerial photography and mapping
(US$140,000), technical assistance for watershed management and irrigation
development (US$240,000) and vehicles and equipment (US$120,000). The
advance wlll be refinanced under the proposed IDA credit.
Proposed Financing
64.       Project costs would be financed as showQ below. Under joint
financing arrangements, IDA would contribute a credit of US$10.6 million
and IFAD a loan of US$7 million. The IDA credit and IFAD loan would
finance, jointly with Government, all the rainfed components, water points,
overseas training and the project management unit. IDA would finance alone
the input and equipment supply for farmers in the rainfed areas and the one
year extension of the semi-mechanized rainfed agricultural development.
The 3EC grant of $5.4 million equivalent would finance the irrigated
components and the input supply and equipment for farmers in the irrigated
areas.  All co-lenders would contribute towards financing of local currency
expenditures. These would be on a decreasing annual percentage basis (90
percent in year one decreasing by 15 percent annually to 30 percent in year
five). Government's contribution would be US$2.6 million equivalent to
about 10 percent of total cost.
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local      Foreign            Z of Total
Currency     Exchange             Project
Cost         Cost      Total      Cost
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IDA Credit                 2.0          8.6      10.6       42
IFAD Loan                  1.5          5.5       7.0       26
r                   EEC Grant                  0.5          4.9        5.4      21
Government of Somalia      2.6           -        2.6       10
6.6         19.0      25.6      100
-s                      - _-
65.       The proposed IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be on standard terms
to Government, with the usual cross effectiveness arrangements. The EEC
grant would be covered through a separate financing agreement still to be
drawn up. Notification of approval of the EEC Grant would be a condition
of effectiveness of the Credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
7.01(b)).



- 16 -
66.       Under the input supply system, the PMU would procure ox-drawn and
irsigation equipment and sell to contracted wholesaler/retailers for cash.
These local currency proceeds would be deposited by Government with the
Somali Development Bank (SDB) in Hargeisa to create a revolving fund to
meet the credit needs of farmers for the equipment. Details of the scheme
were agreed upon at negotiations. Loans to farmers would be at the
existing 11 percent rate of interest of SDB for medium-term credit.   This
is also the rate being used under the Fisheries Exploration/Pilot Project
which was recently approved by the Executive Directors. The credit
activity over the project life is estimated to be small and loans vould, in
the main, be to low-income beneficiaries  In addition, the project is
situated in a part of the country that has poor natural resources and is
remote from the center of Government.
Project Implementation
67.       The Project Ministerial Committee (PMC) presently consisting of
the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, Planning and the Somali Development
Bank, has the overall responsibility for the project. The PMC in turn
delegates responsibility for project management to the Project Management
Unit (PMU), which is attached to the M3A for administrative purposes. The
PMU4, headed by a general manager assisted by a technical assistance team,
would be responsible to the PMC for the direct implementation of all
project activities. These arrangements have proved satisfactory under the
first project. Under the second phase, it would be important that there be
a gradual handing over of the various services, such as extension, research
and input supply, and the implementation of this would be decided upon at
the mid-term review (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.10).
68.       On-farm conservation works would be carried out by construction
teams decentralized in the three main districts of Hargeisa, Gebiley and
Boorama; these are the arrangements used in the first project. The bunds
constructed would be identical to the existing design. Maintenance of the
bunds is the responsibility of the farmer. Actual on-farm interventions
would depend on the degree of slope, rainfall regime, local experience and
farmers' choice. Under the project alternative methods of construction
would also be tried as would a pilot watershed program based on selected
catchments.
69.       Small-scale irrigated farm development would, as under the first
project, consist of land clearing, levelling, construction of main and
lateral water delivery channels, borders, basins, drop structures, channel
lining, pipes, sprinklers, and drainage as are considered appropriate to
each farm. The main crops would be citrus, papaya, a wide range of
vegetables of which onions and potatoes would be predominant.
70.       Project advisorv services and training facilities were
established during the first project for both rainfed and irrigated
farmers. These services would be expanded and would serve farmers
benefitting from both the first and second projects and would adopt a more
systematic extensfan methodology based on the Training and Visit system,
which has been adopted by the NDA as Somalia's extension approach. The
National Extension Service (NES), supported under the Agricultural
Extension and Farm Management Training Project (Credit 905-SO), is



- 17 -
currently providing a limited extension service in the North West region.
However, it is impossible at present for NES headquarters staff to provide
the supervision needed to ensure effective operations in this part of
Somalia, although NES can and does play a valuable role by providing
pre-service orientation and in-service training in Nogadishu for new field
extension agents for the area.  It was agreed at negotiations that the PMU
would be responsible for extension services within the project area and
that proposals for transfer of this responsibility would be decided on at
the mid-term review (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.07).
71.       Rainfed Researc:.  Trials at the Aburin experimental farm would
concentrate on soil and moisture conservation techniques, both mechanized
and with animal draft, and on improving sorghum and maize production by
variety testing and relevant agronomy and plant protection trials. The
station would provide necessary facilities and support to the National
Sorghum Research Program, part financed by the International Development
Research Center and based at Baidoa in southern Somalia.
72.       Irrigated Research work would concentrate on the improved use of
water and distribution methods, the introduction of new fruits and
vegetables and the demonstration of cropping methods, disease control,
pruning and multiple cropping.
73.       The two heads of extension and training would coordinate the
research programs and decide upon work priorities. They would also
interpret the results, in consultation with the MDA research department,
and ensure that only tested technologies are passed on for extension to the
project farmers.
74.       Input Supply- To overcome the almost total lack of supply of
farm inputs, ox-drawn equipment and irrigation equipment, the project would
establish an input supply system in conjunction with private
retailers/wholesalers. The PNU has already developed satisfactory
procurement and stocking procedures for project supplies and spare parts
and these would ensure adequate controls for the development of the input
supply function. The PMU would purchase mainly, from overseas, equipment
and inputs which would be initially stocked in the former ADC warehouse
in Hargeisa which has been transferred to the project. The PMu vould enter
into contractual arrangements with retailers/wholesalers for onward sales
for cash. The contract would specify the modus operandi and financial
arrangements, including profit margins. Initially, outlets would be
limited to the maia towns. It would be a condition of disbursement of the
input supplies category that these contractual arrangements had been
completed in a manaer satisfactory to the Association (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)).
Annual Work Program
75.       The annual work program, which would cover all project
components, would be a key project implementation mechanism. It would
include: (a) a review of project implementation in the current year;
(b) a detailed description of the work to be carried out in the forthcoming
year including objectives, deployment of staff and equipment; (c) require-
ment for additional staff, equipment and other inputs; (d) a budget; and



- 18 -
(e) a financing plan including foreign and local currency requirements and
budgetary support from Government. The annual work program would enable
the PMC to review progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs and provide the
necessary budgetary and other support needed for the project. The annual
work program would be submitted to the PMC by October 1 and to IDA, TEAD
and EEC by November I each year for acceptance, to cover the ensuing
financial year beginning January 1. Initial work programs would be
prepared within two months of signing of the creoit (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.03).
Mid-term Review
76.       The review would consider develupments under the project and in
particular Government's proposals: (i) for th-a integration of the PIMU
services within existing national institutions and the institutional
capacity to sustain development in the follow-oL period; (ii) on the
development of the input supply system and plans for its future operation,
(iii) for adjustments in project implementation procedures which would need
to be incorporated within the annual work program; and (iv) on revisions to
the terms and conditions of the cost recovery scheme. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this mid-term review would be held with
cofinanciers no later than June 30, 1988, and that the subsequent
implementation plans would be subject to IDA, IFAD and EEC approval (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.10).
Procurement
77.       Contracts for supply of machinery and equipment, vehicles,
prefabricated buildings and annual farm inputs totalling approximately
US$6.5 million would be grouped wherever possible into contracts valued at
USS100,000 or more and procured by ICB in accordance with the World Bank
guidelines. Assurances where practical would be sought from suppliers on
servicing facilities within the project area. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in ICB bid evaluation of 15
percent or the import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items in
packages of less than US$100,000 but totalling no more than US$400,000
would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which
are acceptable to the Association. For contracts under US$20,000 or less,
but totalling no more than US$300,000, local shopping or purchasing
off-the-shelf after obtaining at least three quotations would be used. In
total, ICB would account for about 92 percent by value of the purchase of
goods described above.
78.       Civil works for waterpoints and site development for
prefabricated buildings and infrastructure, amounting to approximately
US$1.0 million, because of the small unit cost and dispersed nature of the
works would be let under LCB.
79.       Spare parts and fuel for the machinery, equipment and vehicles,
amounting to approximately US$5.3 million would be purchased by quotations
from the manufacturers of the equipment, other reliable parts manufacturers
and dealer as appropriate. Other operating expenses include US$1.6 million
for local salaries and wages and US$1.2 million for administrative



- 19 -
expenses, such as travel costs and building rentals for which bidding is
inapplicable.
80.       The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants (US$3.6
million) would be acceptable to IDA and IFAD.  Overseas training (US$1.0
million) would be by direct placement.
81.       All bidding packages for services, works and goods estimated to
cost over US$0.25 million equivalent would be subject to prior IDA review
of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage of about 75
percent of the total estimated value of the contracts financed by IDA. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after
contract award. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex IV.
Disbursement
82.       The IDt. Credit and the IFAD Loan would be administered by IDA
under a frame agreement. Disbursements over six years against project
expenditures would be shared equally between IDA and IFAD on those goods or
services which are to be jointly financed (para 65, and draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1). Disbursements would be made to meet 100
percent of foreign exchange costs and 90 percent of local expenditures for:
machinery, equipment, vehicles, p-re-fabricated buildings, annual farm
inputs and technical assistance. Disbursement on civil works and operating
expenses would be made on the basis of 100 percent of foreign exchange and
on a decreasing annual percentage for the local expenditure (para. 60).
The disbursement profile for IDA Eastern Africa Region 'All Loans' is nine
years with about 83 percent being disbursed over the first six years. The
shorter disbursement period of six years assumed for the project is
justified because a major part of the project activities consists of
follow-on activities from the ongoing first project and the PMU is
operational and weil managed. In addition, other pre-implementation
preparation has been financed uder the PPF and a significant percentage of
project funds would be spent on the procurement of machinery and equipment
for the follow on activities. Disbursements against all items would be
based on full documentation, except operating expenses which would require
only a Statement of Expenditure (SOE).
83.     In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the project, it is
AL       importaht that the PMU should have prompt access to the r-quisite funds,
particularly since the project activities are located a  in-iderable
distance from Mogadishu.  It would be a condition of ef.    -ness of the
credit that Government had deposited into the Project's account with the
Central Bank an advance in the amount of So.Sh. 6,000,000 (based on an
average of three months expenditure) and that Government would replenish
the project account to that level every quarter until project completion
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 4.06 and 7.01(d)). In
addition, to enable the project to procure direct and to speed up
disbursement during the course of the project, Government would open two
special accounts in foreign exchange in the project's name with the Central
Bank, one for transactions with IDA and one for transactions with IFAD



- 20 -
Zdraft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(c)).  The opening of the
speclal accounts would be a condition of credit effectLveness (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(c)). IDA and IFAD would each
make at effectiveness an LnLtLal deposlt of US$100,000 equLvalent into the
special accounts. Additional ID4/IFAD disbursements to the special account
would be tied to Government's timely replenishment of the Project accounts
ThLs was agreed upon at negotiatlons (draft Development Credit Agreementp
Schedule 4, para. 3(b)).
ReportLag, Monitoring, and Evaluatlon
84.       Monthly accountLng, quarterly reporting and annual budgets are
already satisfactorily established and in operatlon under the fLrit
project (draft Development CredLt Agreement, Section 5.03)   These
procedures would cont nue In effect. In addition, the PNU would also
prepare a project completion report no later than six months after the
completion of the project. All project components would be monitored by
the Planning and Evaluation Department of the PMU to provide management
with a continuing assessment of the progress made in achieving project
objectives. The monitorlng and evaluation unit would gradually build up a
system for gatherLig lnformation on the variables affecting farmer
incomes. Such varLables lnclude farm practice, crop production, input
supplLes, marketing channels available to the farmers, yLeld levels,
production constraints and indicators of performauce of the Listitution.
serving farmers. The monitoring and evaluatLon unit would be headed by a
local soclo/economist and assisted by a short-term LiternatLonally
recruited monltoring and evaluation specialist.
Accounts and Audit
85.       The project entity has under the first project established
up-to-date accounts which are maintained in accordance with principles and
practices satisfactory to the Bank.   There have been no serious
qualifications of the project accounts by the external audltors. The
second project would continue to use thls established system of
accounting. In addition, the SDB would establish a separate account within
its financial records to identify the funds deposited with the SDB for
lending to farmers. Independent auditors acceptable to the Association
would be appointed and their reports would be provided within siL months of
the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report would Lnclude
statements on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls,
the Spec4l accounts, the SDB revolving fund and on the reliabillty of SOEs
as a basis for disbursements (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01).
Environmental Impact
86.       The first project has already contrlbuted to arresting soil
erosion in the area where on farm bunding has been completed. The bundlng
has permitted retention of water not only for crop productlon, but also
augmented recharge of the underground aquifers supplyLng local sprLags and
wells. This together with the surface run off water yards has improved
water availability in the project area. The second project vould not only
extend these benefits to a larger area in the region but it would also



- 21 -
address on a pilot basis the wider aspects of catchuent control in order to
stabilize fragile land surfaces and protect the downstream on-farm
investments.
87.       All chemicals currently used on crops in Somalia are tested by
residue analysis and are registered by the Plant Protection Department of
the MOA. These procedures are considered adequate. The use of fertilizers
has limited application. It is not expected that the use of chemicals and
fertilizers in the project area would have any adverse environmental
impact.
Cost Recovery
88.       The PMU would maintain a cost recovery unit in Its accounting
division to collect data and provide the Somali Treasury Department with
the information required for cost recovery for bunding works carried out on
dryland farms. The cost recovery system under the project would be similar
to that agreed under the first phase, and would be set at fifty percent of
the total of direct bunding costs and appropriate PHU overhead charges of
20 percent. However, the scheme would be amended to include an initial
down payment of 25 percent with repayments over five years including a
grace period of two years during which only interest would be paid.
Interest would be charged at 11 percent p.a., which is the present interest
rate in Somalia for medium-term agricultural loans. Based on estimated
project costs, the new linear meter charge to farmers would be about four
times higher than that charged under the first phase. An assessment of the
scheme, including collections, system procedures, charge per linear meter
and rate of interest, would be an integral part of the mid-term review.
Any revisions to the rates to be charged would be considered at that time.
89.       The land development charges for the small irrigated farms would
be recovered by the Somali Treasury Department on the same basis as the
on-farm works for dryland farms. The land development charges would be
estimated in advance and cost recovery would be 50 percent as is applicable
to drylaad farms. Any difference between actual and estimated costs of
development would be adjusted in the fourth year. All irrigation equipment
and tcols would be provided on credit through the SDB and cost recovery
would be 100 percent. Terms would be a down payment of 25 percent with the
balance payable or-er 7 years with a two year grace period and interest
at 11 percent p.a.
Benefits
90.       Yields are based on sample field measurements of the unbunded and
bunded lands in the three main districts of Hargeisa, Gebiley and Boorama
over the four years 1980 through 1983. There is significant variation not
only between but within these areas. However, the average annual
percentage yield increase is in the range of 55 to 78. No additional
benefits, for either phase one or two project farms from investments in
research and extension have been assumed as the level to which farmers
would benefit from these services is yet to be determined.



- 22 -
91.       The project would increase production of sorghum, maize, fruits
and vegetables, thus helping to relieve part of the region's deficit. At
full development (year 10), the net annual incremental benefits (1985
constant prices) would be about So.Sh. 90 million (US$3.4 million).
92.       Project beneficiaries in the total project area (phase I and II)
for the dryland farms are all small-scale subsistence farmers comprising
about 42,000 persons and for the irrigated farms about 3,000 persons.
Annual farm household incomes for rainfed farmers would increase from
So.Sh. 12,530 (US$480) to 33,170 (US$1,260) and for farmers of the new
irrigated farms would be So.Sh. 81,120 (US$3,090). In addition, the
project would provide full-time and seasonal employment to about 600
persons and further employment opportunities would be created through the
input supply and marketing operations.
93.       The second phase project would expand the benefits to an
increasLng percentage of the region's population, help reduce existing
levels of under and unemployemnt, continue the process of institution
building to sustain the provision of services to farmers and involve
private sector participation in input supply and marketing. Other
unquantifled benefits not included in the economic analysis are increased
sorghum and maize yields from the introduction of improved farming
practices, increased yields from the existing irrigated small farms,
livestock benefits from increased straw production, the arresting of soil
erosion and improvements in groundwater supplies.
94.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 16 percent.  The
rate of return is calculated on a 20-year economic life for about 80
percent of total project costs. The associated costs of rainfed research
and extension, half the irrigated research and extension and the
semi-mechanized rainfed agricultural development have been excluded.
However, it has been separately estimated that an economic rate of return
of 25 percent on these investments could be achieved from an additional
five percent yield increase.
Risks
95.       Risks associated with the project have been minimized to a large
degree through the first phase project by introducing low-risk farm
development and through detailed feasibility studies. The major risks for
project implementation concern security in the region and staff
continuity. Given past experience, security problems in this area of
Somalia cannot be excluded. Management and discontinuity of service of key
personnel and technicians has always been of concern.  Under the first
project, salary incentives, housing and training have been used to good
effect to provide stability in the PMU and these would continue to be
provided under the second phase. Gaps would be filled if they arise by
employment of short-term specialists.



- 23 -
PART V - LEAL INSTRUNET AND AUTHORITY
96.       The Draft Development Credit Areement between the Somali
Deocratic tRepublic and the As ion and the Recommendation of the
Cottee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
4c_Ageet of the Aso           are belng distributed to the Exective
Directors separately.
97.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement conforwr to the usual
pattern of agreements on agriculture projects. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section 3 to Annex MII to this report.
98.       I an satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
,P VI - RECOMMEON
99.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 14, 1984



- 24 -                                              mI..
T&BLZ  3L                                       am 
SQ061A               -SOCIL    -          sA OM
'MT7                    (406t 7mma  ZSmuS
UIUAU~~~S-  OF SAumAA           Ai3I  S. 06
AM  C1*sA      . _
TOAL                               637.7      637.7    637.7
a~I0ILTU3AL            W36...                 236.7    2"3.7 
CW PM          Cos)       LO.O ".. o   0mo                                  2".1                 1uZ.9
(EIML0nA5 OF OIL  1u16EmI)          11.0       25.0     90.0              62.6        5J2.0
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
10PEK]MO AN VITA SENTIZZICS
QIATIOX.IED-hEh C261SA5)          2450.0    32360   4515                    -
URBAN POPur.Ar( CS OF TOTAL)        17.3       23.1     31..              1.2                   29.7
POIULATIO ?IJZECTIO
POULATIO  It WAR 200 (KaJo)                            6.3
STATZOEA3Y 7OSUIATOS (Mlu)                            22..
OUaTIO  UEIEtR                                        1J          
MIUA32OW MSSITTM
PER S3.                           3.          5.1      6.9              32.5                  35.5
PER Sq.      AG1_. LAD             8.Z       10.      14.7             Ll3.                  111.3
00LJA1M1 MM STUICrOZE (2)
0-14 US                          43.8       46.S     43.6              45.                    4
15-"   S             S3.6                    51.6     53.1             51.5                   51.7
65 A30A AD                         2.7        1.9      2.7               2.9                   2.9
1DUIID0  oPT  RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              1.6        2        2.                2.                    2.
maxm                               4.8        5.7      5.4               6.2                   5.2
IIIEm KAE (PM1 TI)                  48.2       48.2     483               4.6                   47.0
C      1E AEC  RATE (P  TEllS)      26.9       26.6     2L-              17.7                   15.2
MSS R      Q1R3UTIC RATE             3.2        3.2      3.0              3.2                     2
AC1UUS . AMaL (T.OUS)               --
RS ( or MARIED __ ._K)             -          ..
MMW AM  DKM
D   OF FOD PM    Et CAI
(1969-71-100)                      97.0       100.0     60.0             653.                   91.
CAZOSIS CZ Or IRXQOTIUNs)   e      3.0       M2O    100o0                6"                    6.2
N0OENS (*RS PE  DAY)              76.0       6B.0     78.0             49.9                   567
0F WIC1 AMAL A50D PULSE         47.0       43.0     36.0 l            11.3                  17.0
3 CUMS 1-4) MAXTR LE                61.0       55.0     47.0             23.5                    5.7
LIFE EXPEIC Ar 3SUM CW1A5)          34.0       37.2     36.8             66.4                   51.7
XWA65 MON. RATE (M13R T )         213.0       200.0    154.0            117.5                  1lt.7
AMS TO SAFE WAM  (CUM)
TOTAL                                .       15.0     33.0 Id           21.6                  35.6
aux                                 ._       17.0     56.0 a           61.5                   56.1
RURAL                                        14.0     20.0 ff           14.2                  27.3
5C<S TO EWEr DISPOSLL
CZ or0 POP IIJ0
TOTAL                               ..         _-     47.0 /a           32.0
nA N.                                          .      77.0 re          69.2
RAL                                 ..        ..      35.0 if           2..6
PO01lA7105 MM PHi CtiA           36570.0    24330.0  1490.0            27477.                11l33 
Pop PE.ltu IRsi    11             410.0      4280.0   2330.0            333S.2                2246.9
POP. PER  DSPTAL ED_
TOTAL                            690.0      660.0    660.0 Ic         10".0                  96.
man                              140.0      26o.0       ,-             395.2                 36-7
RURAL                          3564.0      7330.0       ..            3094.0                40M2.
AVA  SEM CF BOu
TOTL                                 -         ' '       ''
70TAL-
ma.                  ..                        .....
RUL                                 ..         .        ..
ACSS TO ELECT. C or 013AM1.lGS)
ToTAL                               ..         ..
m.a .                               ..         ..
.RO



- 25-                                               hUE.
?A  LE  z                                       in6  2
Sa  osrC4L X   S     tMM  L- 
SUMLIA                             YXVRIE    5o  CUI     AUU    La-
ST               P~~~~AST RCW  RSTfl1AUR /b
xmw~~~~~ mzos
~~~~~~iiAW                    so= or sA            m     S or SN=s
avUSWD E       rIM  zrme
113Uw21   TOTAL                    9.0       lt_0     30.0              59.Z
MA'LE                   [3.0       17.0     36.0              78.6
F_nl                     50        S.0     21.0              57.5                  73.6
SE_UtX-T TOTAL                     1.0        5.0      11.0             13.1                   17.4
8513                     2.0        8.0     16.0              U7.5                  23.7
EIKALE                   -_         2.0      6.0               6.3                  14
VOCA3OFAL CZ OF SErDIZY)            26.4        3.1      17.6              7.2                    5.3
PUFIOTACE R=o
pain= 24-R.                                  33.0      33.0             461                    3S.6
ZO1                               20.0       21-0     21.0              25.3                   24.3
ADO=  LTEER   RATE CZ)               1.5 /f     5.0     60.0               4.3                   35.6
PA5N   CA1S/10sAmD  01               1.1        2.!       ..               3.8                  20.7
RtDIO      _O msaw POP               9.8       15.4     z0.4              1.3                  100.8
TV          TAND                      ..          .        ..              2.0                   38S
NERPE  -D=CEIIRL
I_ES.) CXaL20
PM3K0W  PO SL           1 . S             _ s                          5.4         U.2
cxlnm %MIT                     0.6        1-5       _1_4                                   0_3
TOOL LU    Patc cmm               lOL7.0     125.0   SW310                   _ 
FVZ  (PEO)                       30.1        29.7     27.7              36.5                  33_;
e   c   CMME                   SS.o       Mso       8z.o             7n-                    S7.1
311XS= Cp-n                        *_0        6.0      S.0               9.                    17.4
TOUL                     4X.5~^      38_S     311.3             *1.0                  36.
NALE                     56~~S.7     55.Z     54.               52.1                 47-
:1;1!                             247        22_S     21l               30.2                   ml.
ElCOO    DllOtZEX  bOT               1_1        1.2      1.2               1o.2                   1.4
PEMTorPrw==C
sscm 5x air BOSE.. ....
-IM    2(e or NDS                    .                                                          ,,
ELZ    (MIsPE CAP
YRZ                                 __L _.            15.0/            169.3                  SM5.
RIUJLL                              ._          _     IO0 t,L           90.                   2*9.0
ESTUED RELAD  POImT  DlCM
URM ~  ~      ~     ~      >,         -      65. ts           107.7                 47F.4 _
WA                                  _,._              50-0 tt           65-0                 1N6.0
, ~~CSDM                POP. OEMASUE
omr Illz LEVEL (:C)
_             T                                  ,.         __ TAL  0_0 It           65--                    _
La  M         average for eahrdcw  arm  *rultlo-epe  rltS c  __um  Ge= of cutlsonte 
lntmao  dep_eaf a swalmty of daer ad Is not unform_
lb  Uness otazws  Aed. -aafor l960- refer to mw 7*  betr_   V59 md1961; tt fer D970-, betwen 1969 M
197; dM date for -Mt let Estiae-~ bewn  c_O ad8 1982
Ic  197; /d VJ6; /a 1975; Sf 9I2; /jt 2978; ab liccr_ dw to ltemy  omag of V9M
JI".19'



-  26                                                                A MI.gI..
Page 3 of 6
_I             e. den. -_ _     .-       qea      -   a  M- _S.          _ _ eI t . S     -i    a -       _.   .       a. O     nl_ t
_S             __ _ tee ni egdede teesa _l   _               _ Se _s e  ate. eiat  we a.  tI, a. -.eeilc.  n
iteeli  _-c  ci  _-n  Sat iee. _s n.c-cc nra  __c  _eea    _n   ani
asc rw  en- fI  5#_ *t    esfet.            a    .il teem eta-_. iesn _s end, ee is .q-c n_c  _ _c...  *l-.
.        t                                                                                 c.  c. .. e.t    m.. .            t
Lu. __-t_   'go                                                   0 _S 
t~~ E s _ ti _ts~t                                                    e   l~-s_tl. c      __e _              -E  _-.
- ra             .     S     -    _eaf        1_ _--Wr p - _r .
* je. _, _.. -         -   .fte  _     - tee fSt-  I-.                   ass.. netS
as        a             1e                  _                                  a  .t      _4 -  .:           t     -  at r
.e _. . -  t     u t l             -r cI        S _
C   arr. reel -          ...           -o c tee-   ee s- e.                    .s.S5  tU. _          .      t _ _           e
*_.icIc.-      -t,f _. t.* S .                             W             e  *  . _  _e                                                                          -
aim.2_ _tAant   .e-l   -                                             . _ -  -d
_ _ tieF r.S  - n-e             . W    ti        c$l                  ass_ tS ane_  - eit_el eeei  S. _ ibdtlaa t _ 45
Piny        nna   I.,..e.c..                  en -_ __.-    -_                     _ean  _n   _ -. eSit  _t.   _,.n_ ef  . _~t       -
2. -%.                                            N-fe.    .5einca  q    e 
ane~~~~~~~.ra~~~S _ie  e,emrtt.                                                             ' 
-e.s    ne. --&.  _   _ -I _ e C-Ml *o let.    _L_ as_
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ef ntitES                                                      .. antc*l-E .t ee.      alzs e.l:___ _____t.x
Ml-   (-.L_->- ~t-   Cle 7                          m  -  e     - c _    n    .e    as .a. __ _         .
pft.a    tim-  .a    .iStt.e -   ee                  t                 .. a   a  .elza,a   e               e       csa
cc-                              L b m .  W  l   a.  te  i .* . -                p.c._ 
Secel.       -f _.r_ a            -           _ 5sls.n cee.eee~ c5  ele   p.i -r- le.n.tat.  tin. -_asltlct.  -t-nl t_C  as t  
f   nLur-ft l-., a r.c.5 -.W 551.  a  - timen. WMt.s -.eanasnme   eeai   --'e. aa      aci
__ e _e ldl_, 'ste Ve t. 1. _. w                       _n                    It  S ert . t,P s          s..
nan.. dell S~ SetelIt.  e - 5   l.ela L-.O  aai
eSs. erCna   ii              Sesteneal-a n                            __
ef ateelllf as  .leS Lr ..n Sc  eis.W.wc..  alce 
c        "P    -e       S    -we ns   -et             e                        e       t_ __ _ _ r_               L rl
-_    a               _ -. lee _ced  _ns asaeSl _facnle                   c-el    ci t5     _   ete  l. -_ c-eea sO ceet
_   _l  re le _ .       r. a laena  nit _n   e       _. e_               ee. b  sdje __5  itieec  5e.qnit  pln- _         5 I
- a.n - nit dee. em. nit __ 2_tan. _a_. .5..  tete.s sit _       antic. _tef aseesat e_Sa e_ r_ _ _tata. t eedt p.
-   -             ..e         eanse _5.    ree  _- nt                    e_sat    e..i -  itS.  eda  a_ iFee-  Ca  _-_
_,.   _ t_ee      Ilns  _1 r ecxla   S el.n                             bWte __e  _- t_nd  _l as _el _  .d 
,fl. as _i *_e *- delc    Selll  <t  SI ftl          el.s,  cl'                                  e .   -..               , sett *_
adIt fe ste d -l  ta     e.  te tt   steneem _I
5.. -eta     a tteedtala.ea  c. e.leI--  Z-t                   Wall eeZ.Cl4.-   .d     o'
-pt__e__ e_ _  ,      Se t. x _e,    -   - etcf...  ee                   l     e .ft-bn- aeasteZteeleclI
-_.    enn_ ta  tecie t.clc a_ -.nc.c  lee. _ee ..e t                   nieee. _ _           ae  -   .cdt _   _snenSa
_ed. i           P. .et.                                              _es ._ L-       _ 4t_, _       s  ea.c eee  
____________tle  -  ..-,.Sel _t. I.e S.a . el.te.-e Ic c :.
-t..e __ _-     gIc.t _t e__.- et1_   Cfl t...e -}                 eeence  etS..
-Sets  *e Ia  54h as* S  tea                                           d. l*-... tet t... - tscte  -tt  Ul ec te _ as _eSe _
-_ -. _           l ss -       .e _ a_ *_r  caerS las                    a .     a -S eu e    lc w0 -e   -Is _               _.
,    * * 
lad el asL te-" Me -.q
*5 rneS. s eizS 5) ~.      c   -___ f = eec  :   - -n                   P     .   a ftS   _n
Vaee   _in        *-. _yeee.   _ tete  _   _-   _. a   .ee ee_   en.t assr                 _ ale.w _   _ss|
a.eeee c  5.:.   .t as  efte.                                           tes   ccc  e  5         cecelet - Alt s_  ct __ne  _e _e
-_,_el tea a . leet  _ ceb  _  _-  d,n  ne  . ete                            etd       n-ntSi  ns-a              mene   e
-r s_-s  n-. as _l ,w *_Zs- n                                                     Sc   ts-. as a.  ce    e
0- t_c. a. _ r  -ts, b          -n             V        Uk                      .       t _   _   t                         e     e
-3_ a.ne  sat ntis as lie rtee                                            ane_  _:f -a _ e t _en- 
ate ant el alita. ,          eStS    Se               ne ante as a. -ecI    tedeea.- -                    fe
13_ed ti   e            ca      c  at-ceetnl"-"oc.eSe  U. _. In-   ee t-  _                                    "W_
clr ae--                            .    Se  ent, asf                        te _ _   a       e *  r.  t                  - r _
M*WNt e                                                                            dcd _       . a. dea       .tS  _   t r    _
,eS  lca cc-a.  *te_              )  - _-          eq _cet                . a  det  _f Sw  st *. _a  i.e  f ti.em.
elcani  _teen.          _z a. eSe        rV ectestel,tae              ace n-s bllt  _   rlt - tee -  _a  a a_  _   i
tell tI- .   teen fteta q aese I-t-  plcca eq M.c1                         -e  s.
-.  OW W                    _.eten                                                    _ -_ _                            D a
r-_.e. -         on"W%-. _                                             - _  _  rer
_sae -ne.          ad Sr _     _t.       .  _               _r_e_-_* _ _.__
rr_   _        _l    _  r_   _     e *_ t a_   _r                        ia  as  _lete cea#e   _ _Ss  _nea  lee. eccene
_tI aa  efe--f t.et    a                     e
Se-n _e sierr                                                               ncStel  tee. lite _ tis? __
*_e eq  e antte -. Cat  lte?.     - a.a e _ tes..                        teal Seac - teeS  r_...   cclce _ e.a  r_dIc Ce_..
peanla - -- ite   ts- ic-e l.elc  l - I._                                  a   t r t _    tcn r _   teet iea
sW   e_ D-     t  __ td_    s n . O_                S.              I c. a          - _e__f.te te l . n         t.   lce
a .s. __I  S1 _tese * _           _s_  _t- 1*   _ fee                     ntust _. ec. Wd  aos. ale as _r_a Sd  dtm a 
_t   _e     e_ Ctb etl    _U_ec  Se    _t cc . att   t_I_t                pea   _el,l  s tt. n-sc                 fein         -e
-Saten *e      r Sc a   etetl as tr_ a. dteecc    nce                    *_e enc_tc ee f   anal  _ete
_r  -X _an  it t_ _ca  _          _ s ad  r_. meet                      n-s,  c-dete rr_ - bee. el rcell  at    s _l se a*t
a asL -  *leelcn Si ptese. as ela.  ttt    e
_  __- n-_n  :ees _len_s-. net as sat -_.                         tWatttee
a_cet _c fs I. _t. atate  fc_ I. de_  a _i.  _e                    _       e-._ clat _e        . n-_  :0 _otee. as _ a St pet
Cc s_It anl    cSn  it_ at sc-tI  *_ n
_S    ilS        Itan n-la en d _t as -   re         la
_t_  pese 0i en_ a. t n-d a. Det _n-n   I_teat__ _   _w _D 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n c     ee ne ateem                                                              1. li_ _ -,  emee f_S_ leel. elsf_, 
liti del ted       *_l,  _i-t. Si_ as   - sat  _.                          b c nsee         *_te  *-t cnt See ernet.   _e.- as _el
aw ime eeS  al iDe ela   _ _l  - tteal ..l We _.1                         tb      ns  fsileS-a. ict- tea  _c_t ene * _el
sert, Se wte, as _ el-n a. d_S en _et Se-et stS a  nf                    n-tItan  en-St die the n_et        t-f     aet       S_ t -
_*1_ tn-letS_ SU t__t it. *t 11 _ n-t  D_ t nt.   a                      teei tldt n-t. r.cc tatSW-nse t- ci ad cett 
i- wett *_-b -r   _ _ee  a. sete a  _tat  ic  a.daeett ce~   _-     si    aet ea_  *__ nec   m _s_-
* de.icsed it  Iettttte  iea  csit,                                   peat si   qa           c.fa  Sa  .ieafe __ _ee
A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sec te _sei _e t_. Seelett, za     ss
tece cC Sic ,cc. lna.c  fn         - nc.L e_. as teen-
-   _ -  -hd  n- a      | a. ic  _..ce  iceda . e  as                                                           a. nets
me.ta _ at _t __c  *te   e     ceSd   de_ _Dt           D_
ta.  a   a  -     eeaet  a    n  _en  a. aw ann
_n   et  be__d  as Sat.        _ d.ete              te  S0
-_ aUac __         _tS._ eq. esnIdt l _ D-
asaec  ____t .a.eea.e       ee  apsIs 
eq-na me-liten-



- 27 -
Amm I
Page 4 oE 6
SLUJXA r, rMT DM~
F~monic Tdicamtr
Ge Per C ts   $266 (1982) 11
hAmml Rae of Growth of GDP
- at 1l  P: e L9 2 f/                                            at   mt t            t
(Fiscal Yes)
'S$  a.           Z                  L977-8         8      .1982
GP at   et Pres              1339.1         100.0                   -         41       8.5
Invesrt                       267.5          20
esrce Wa1                    -292.6          21.9
Eo!t of        and DE iS      152A           U4
Tupr of  8ad iE!S             484.2          36.2
Oatpllt in P!198
Valm AMed
is$En.         x
ARra[u3                          595A.       49.9
Izulitry                         133A        11.2
servis                           462.8       38.9
1249.6      100.0
CEnEM GaEm_ Fnp
1979      198D       98        1982      1983
(l ill i on   So. Sh.)
Tocal Revn                         1525      1421      2263       2760      4075
Qnrent Equiiture                   1573      1670      2295       2750      4470
Oirrent Surpil  or Deficit (-)     -47       -249       -32         10      -395
j  Ot,dr EqwftrFw   21                1684       1462      1425      2616       2097
0vezaIl Deficit                    1731      1771      1457       2626      2492
I/ Bass ca prelidtmry  tlmater of Naticu1 Auts rently  repared by EA2E.



- 28 -
~ I
Pig 5 oE 6
3ATAM OF PADS
1979    N       o19       1981         1982        1983
Nerdbmlae Ezpoxts (f.o.b.)         106          133           114         137         100
adwUse Tmpaot (cai.f.)1/          -394         -46            42          484         435
Trade UaW                         -288         -32           -308        -W4         -33
l r -faet oreices                  -12           -8            -1           9           4
a  faes   i, i
Private trau.fez,ne                 36           57            64          U           191
Careat kAc=t Balian               -264         -279          -245        -27        -312
Dmrrt Inves~tma                                                  
OfcI anl AtAd                       58          143           150         157         148
Private, net                         4            -             -           -           -
kFRfial, net                        84           87            79         123          85
Use E Pd Cedtit                      -            4            30          34          44
ErrouPAOa  sLcas                    19           21             3           3          14
Oswra  Wa1c                        - 99         -24            17          10         -49
RMlE CF EB3WZ
rn 1973 to Jme 1961 -   S$1.00 - So.Sb. 6.295
Fr  July 1, 1981, h=ia3lb a dial eg   rate:
US$1.00 - 6.295 (fer ei tial impors)
B$1.o0 - M159 (aU otbur forepts )
Fra July 1, 1982     -  It;$l.O0 - 15.22 (uifie)
From July 1, 1983    -  tS$1.00 - 15.22 (a muqec float)
MmuS 25; premiz   al        r ltb
PFrm Dec. 1, 1983    -  tB$1.00 - 17.58
Frmm Sept. 15, 1984   -  lU$.OO - 26.00
11 7be Import da for 1979-1    Iel   Frhw Valnt im .
_c~r l984



-  29  -
6q  ofE 6
MMr!, - AND PR=
D:.          Dee.         DM.            C.1:
1979         1990         1981         1992         1983
(H i l l  o n   So. Si)                (PeL.. Jut.)
ftk MCa   an Goweat (net)              1,231.4     1,902.4      2,4.6        2,1i0.0      1,805.0
I1ck CIab A    Pdwate Seetor
;1d Public Bhitrzs                   1,725.8     1,977.2      2,296.1      2,923.8      3,455.8
hiy Siply                              2,335-2     2,78.2       3,674.1      4,104        4,309.0
(Naositre of Tnm Mui,m)
Gweral Pric Iute 1 (1977-100)            136.2        217.1        313.4        384.2        24.0
Gbnera3 Price IMnex                     23.8         59.4         44.4         22.6         36.4
Dnk C      anl Private Sector
and PEblic kterprdaes                   22.9         14.6         16.1         27.3         18.2
miery SpWY                                35.1         19.2         32.0         11.8          4.9
E15M
o_mz   1977-791980                        1981
Msmu    x          MS$En   Z          M$ In    Z
Livestock                                 71.2   74.5       10L.6  76.2         98O   85.8
9.8   10.3         8.1   6.1          6.0    5.3
Meet anda eat Products                     2.1    2.2         1.0   0.7          0.3    0.3
Hidb and Sdm                              5.8    6.0          6.6   5.0          2.0    1.7
Fish gA Fish PrOdwts                      1.5    1.6          0.3   0.2          1.0    0.8
Odom                                      5.2    5.4         15.6  U.7          6.9    6.1
Total                                    95.6  100.0        133.3 100.0        U4.0  100.0
._    _                            US$ fIgn.
bblic Debt (Dec. 31, 1983)1/           1,516.4
' (of which disbursed)                 1,159.8
1Ir SERUM RATIO 
Pubic Debt 1983 (estlute)
(after debt relief)                    17.2
IDA. IRE)1 (Juoe 30, 1984)
Ostanding and DLsbxursedl              142.5
IbtUsbursl                184.5
(Ctsnadhfiqg Inc- Uzisbursied            227.0
I/ EWuxIe iidisrbzzwed cciLtsents from East ErtpPegn cOMxtries,        =S$ 1 -ton, AhIch
are not eqpected to be disibmved any futr. ter1984



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SONALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984) 1/
IDA    Undisbursed
No.    Year   Borrower             Borrower                      (US$ Mlllion)
Twelve Credits have been fully disbursed                      77.99
635-SO  1976   Somalia           North-West Agriculture       10.0       0.38
698-SO  1977   Somalia           Somali Development Bank       5.0       0.48
699-SO  1977   Somalia           Third Highway
(Hargeisa-Borama)             7.0       2.27
738-SO  1977   Somalia           Third !ducation               8.0       0.85
821-SO  1978   Somalia           Technical Assistance          3.0       0.70
905-SO  1979   Somalia           Agriculture Extension        10.5       4.63
906-SO  1979   Somalia           Central Rangelands            8.0       2.42
972-S0  1979   Somalia           Bay Agriculture              12.0       9.24
1043-50 1980   Somalia           Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                     6.0       0.26
1105-SO 1981   Somalia           Fourth Education             10.2 2/    5.60
1236-SO 1982   Somalia           Second Mog. Water Supply    15.0 7/    4.18
1324-S0 1983   Somalia           Fourth Highway               23.0 Z1   17.50
1464-SO 1984   Somalia           Afgoy Gas Delineation        18.0 2/   15.97
1465-SO 1984   Somalia           Fisheries Explo. Prom.       13.5 Z/   13.0
TOTAL                       227.19     77.48
of which has been repaid      1.66
TOTAL now held by IDA       225.53
TOTAL Undisbursed                      77.48
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/ Credits approved in SDRs; principal and undisbursed amounts expressed in US
dollars equivalent, computed at the September 30, 1984 exchange rate.



- 31 -
ANNX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investent
(As of Septemer 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                              (Amnt iLn US$ MIllion)
Year            Obligor                           Loan    Equity   Total
1981             Somali Nolasses Co. Ltd.          0.375    -         0.375
Total gross commitments           0.375    -        0.375
less cancellations, terminations, 0.054    -        0.054
Total nov held by I1C             0.321    -        0.321



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
North West Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase II
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I -   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 21 months
(b)  Preparation by:                  Government, Consultants
and IDA
(c)  Appraisal Mission:               March 1984
(d)  Completion of negotiations:      November 1984
(e) Planned date for
Credit Effectiveness:           July 1985
Section II-   Special IDA Implementation Actions
A US$500,000 advance under the Project Preparation
Facility was approved in March 1984 to cover the foreign
exchange costs: aerial photography and mapping, technical
assistance for watershed management and irrigation
development and vehicles and equipment.
Section III- Special Conditions
(a) Effectiveness:
- the fullfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the agreement between the Borrower
and IFAD (para. 65);                                           X
- Notification of approval of the EEC Grant (para. 65);
- Opening of the Association's Special Account and the
Fund Special Account in foreign exchange in the
Project's name with the Central Bank (para. 83).
- Initial payment of So.Sh.6,000,000 into the Project's
account with the Central Bank (para. 83); and
(b) Disbursement
- No disbursement would be made from the input supply
disbursement category until appropriate contractual
arrangements for handling the inputs had been
completed by the project with wholesalers/retailers
in Har*eisa (para. 74).



- 33 -
Annez III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Other
- A aid-term review would be held with cofinanciers not
later than June 30, 1988 and the subsequent
implementation plans would be subject to IDA, IFAD
and EEC approval (para. 76).



-  34  -                   9  ANNEX IV
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                   ICB      LCB    Other a/  N.A. b/  Cost
-----(US$ Million)
Nachinery, Equipment,             5.4      0.3      2.7      0.1       8.5
Vehicles, and Prefabricated
Buildings                      (3.5)   (0.2)      -       (0.1)     (3.8)
Civil Works                                1.0                         1.0
(0.5)                       (0.5)
Annual Farm Inputs                0.6      0.1      0.9                1.6
(0.6)    -                          (0.6)
Operating Experses                                  6.0      2.8       8.8
(2.2)   (0.8)     (3.0)
Technical Assistance                                4.3      0.4       4.7
(1.8)   (0.4)      (2.2)
Overseas Training                                            1.0       1.0
(0.5)     (0-5)
Total                   6.0     1.4      13.9     4.3       25.6
(4.1)   (0-7)    (4.0)   (1.8)-   (10.6)C/
a/ Includes items funded by EEC which will be purchased in accordance with
their regulations (Machinery, Equipment, Vehicles and Prefabricated
Buildings about US$2.7 million, Annual Farm Inputs about US$0.9
million, Technical Assistance about US$1.1 million and Operating
Expenses about US$0.7 million).
b/ Refinancing of PPF and direct placement.
c/ Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.



IBRD 18256
)'  ..-.rx..J                                                         M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tAY 1964
/x..r    \             PEOPLE S DEMOCRATIC
/            X            REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
/ DJIBOLITI                                                          A den
/                                                      Gulf JenOUTI                                      +
)               i ;b1.yodo                                                                  Cafidqg a    ALUL  /
II'. 'Adado  rowand'   -                                                             _  _  C
. .....      BerbarcL,Me. |-    r-
1   4Ecofereo ' s A i -- 1 s j MU5+( <1 _ 
S OM AL IA                                         A,,.,,  +                     .i| 
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL                          - rwuv.' '    Lr Ano/d-9
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           b               w- eX 
Phase liI~-->< 
S&S.
_ .-                        .A   - ... -. x -|.......:::'~  
_ ..... .:1:l: .... - :fi.- :.-   ..u....  ARA1IA
.Jf  .wJr;                                                /   n.alBrn/a
_ o awe                                  .IHIOPI                                               B -LA ..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  .AU .,e... .o 4ab...i\)
S           - M-A L I A                                                   t       I _
\Bdd                                                                                                    y       O    ,D lg
NORTH/WEST REGION AGRI_CU,LTU\..-   .                                                                                 C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aiWh d  -Lost A od-
. 1 L .;}Phase 11
1\,,;k                    ..                                               8        -P J;k
) D.r    O






