E45 1
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
GUIDELINES FOR REDUCING THE ENNVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
OF
ROAD PROJECTS
IN
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
(Issued by Prime Minister's Decree No: 05/PM dated 14/1/95 )
,Nolc: Copied from original          L
January 1998



ENVIRONMENTAL GU7IDELINES
CONTENTS
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background
1.2   Scope and Purpose
2.    ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES
2 1   Screening
2.2   Institutional Aspects
2.3    Staffing
2.4   Technical Assistance
3.    ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS and MITIGATION MEASURES
3.1   Introduction
3.2   Identification of Environmental Effects
3.3    Environmental Mitioation Measures
References
APPENDIX I Environmental Effects and Mitigation Measures
APPENDIX 2: Some Suggested Details for Environmental Mitigation Measures
APPENDIX 3: Sample Environmental Clauses for Contract Documents



1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1    Background
These Guidelines were prepared to help The Ministry of Communication Transport Post and
Construction for identifying and reducing potential environmental effects of road development
in Lao PDR . Such as to provide basic and practical assistance for current application, as well
as set out a framework which can be expanded in the future.
1.2   Scope and Purpose
The Guidelines comprise:
* Section 2 covering the environmental procedures to be followed, and.
*  Section 3 describing the likely potential environmental effects and mitigation measures;
*  Appendix 1 sets out in tabular form the potential adverse effects, and the recommended
mitigation measures to reduce or eliminate them. It is the practical heart of the Guidelines
and can be used as a stand-alone document or as a check-list.
Appendix 1 can be used to identify and reduce the environmental effects of all road
development projects in Lao, however if the potential effects are major an individual
environmental assessment (EA) should also be prepared for that project. Hence to identifv
projects which could cause more major effects a simple screening criteria is included in the
procedures set out in Section 2. More extensive and detailed screening criteria and procedures
may later be developed.
The basic purpose of the Guidelines is to assist in reducing any adverse environmental impacts
caused by road construction projects in Lao. This purpose will only be achieved however if the
Guidelines are used by all those planning, designing and supervising road maintenance,
rehabilitation or construction projects.



2.   ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES
2.1     Screening
The simple screening process proposed is set out in the following flow diagram:
PROJECTS
Category               Z  | SCREENING               Category 11
No significant             I                  I     Some potential
environmental                                       Environmental
effects                                             effects
Prepare an lniPrj
Environmental
No significant           Evaluation
enNirornmental             (IEE)
effects
Some   siDenificant
effecr,s identified
Prepare a Project
Enmironmental
Assessment
(EA)
Prepare an    i
Action Plan 
(EAP)
Use Appendix I
during design &
implementation



The screening decision in the first box of the flow diagram places a project into one of t\\O
categories
Cateoorv I Projects with no potentiallv si2nificant environmental impact.
These are projects that only include improvement/rehabilitation of roads within an existinL,
right-of-way and are not located within or affect "environmentally sensitive areas".
Categorv 11: Proiects with potentially adverse environmental impacts.
These are projects that require substantial widening and acquisition of new right-of-way and in
particular roads on a new alignment. Projects with a major change in the use of the road may
be included, and all roads located within, or affecting. "environmentally sensitive areas".
"Environmentally sensitive areas" would include zones of significant human habitation
(urbanized areas, residential concentrations, hospitals, schools, commercial and market
complexes), ecologically important zones such as wetlands, forests or any area relatively
unaltered by humans, archeological/ historical/cultural sites, and terrain with slope greater that
50 percent - especially when soils are erodible and near surface waters.
For all Category II projects the flow chart shows that an Initial Environmental Evaluation
(IEE) is carried out to determine if a full Environmental Assessment (EA) needs to be prepared
for the project. The scope and contents of an IEE should be limited to the following;
-     Brief description of the proposed project works.
-     Description of the relevant components of the existing environment, particularly those
components which caused the area to be classified as "environmentally sensitive".
-     An assessment of the effects of the specific road works activity on the relevant
component.of the existing environment already identified and described.
-     Suggested practical mitigation measures to address or lessen the specific potential
effects identified.
A short report an any public consultations carried out, including names and details of
those consulted, any suggestions made, and how these were incorporated into the
mitigation measures recommended.
-     A simple recommendation, either that the specific mitigation measures be
implemented, together with the applicable ones from Appendix 1, or that a full EA is
required. The latter recommendation should be made when simple mitigation
measures are insufficient and/or there are other major potential environmental effects
which should be considered in more detail.
-     The TOR for a full EA if it is recommended that one be prepared. The TOR should
ensure that the EA concentrates on the important issues identified in the EE.



As show n on the flowv chartn Category 11 projects not requiring a full EA, and all projectc
placed in Categorv 1, should have a simple Environmental Action Plan (EAP) prepared for
them listing the particular mitigating measures to be taken to reduce potential Environmental
effects and identifying those responsible for the measures. The measures in the EA.P will be
selected form those in Appendix 1.
Category II projects which do require a full EA should have a more comprehensive EAP
prepared as part of the preparation of a comprehensive EA. All new road construction projects
are included in Category I1 so the indirect environmental effects they can cause are not covered
in Appendix 1.
Indirect environmental effects are secondary effects arising from the access the road provides.
For example, constructing a new road into a presently forested area could provide access for
people to enter and cut down trees or establish settlements. These effects should be
investigated as part of an IEE, or preferably a full comprehensive EA, especially if the road
passes through an "environmentally sensitive areas". If there is already vehicular access then
indirect effects are considered negligible and only direct effects of he construction work itself
are likely to affect the environment. With direct effects it is usually possible to reduce, if not
eliminate, them by applying the mitigation measures set out in Appendix 1.
2.2   Institutional Aspects
The National Oreanisation for Science, Technology and Environment (STENO) under the
Prime Minister's Office is the central entity responsible for coordinating environmental matter
with the line Ministries.
The use of these Guidelines was recommended by STENO through ref 1290/STENO dated
20th November 1997.
The MCTPC adopted them for general use by letter ref 0 l 7/MCTPC dated 5th January 1995.
Their use was approved by the Prime Minister's letter 05/PM dated 14th January 1995.
A draft "National Environmental Action Plan" has been prepared by a working group funded
by the World Bank.
2.3   Staffing
An Environmental Unit has been established as part of the Planning - Technical Division of the
Department of Communication of MCTPC and is responsible for ensuring the environmental
soundness of projects within the road sector.
The duties of this Unit include:
ensuring that these Guidelines or donor specific environmental criteria are applied to all
road projects controlled by MCTPC.
ensuring that all projects are screened according to the flow chart in Section 2. 1.
ensuring that an IEE is prepared for anv Category II project.



ensurina that a comprehensive EA is prepared if recommended in the lEE
ensuring an EAP is prepared for every project.
ensuring that all road projects comply with any environmental leczislation as it is
enacted.
-     increasing awareness of environmental aspects of road projects.
-     developing and expanding these Guidelines.
2.4   Technical Assistance
Technical assistances in particular for the Environmental Unit, P.T.D, could be of assistance
developing these Guidelines, as well as, instituting broader environmental plans, policies and
regulations.
The Term of Reference (TOR) for such expatriate technical assistance should include the
responsibilities listed in 2.3, and in particular the expatriate consultant should be responsible
for developing and expanding the Guidelines. Some input could also be required to assist in the
development of broader environmental plans, policies and legislative acts.
3.    ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
3.1.  Introduction
Appendix I both identifies potential environmental effects and contains suggested mitigation
measures for each adverse impact identified. It is therefore the most useful part of these
Guidelines and is set out in simple tabular form so that it is easily read and referred to.
Appendix 2 expands on some of the suggested mitigation measures and Appendix 3 contains
some suggested contract clauses to put effect to the measures.



Essentially Appendix I is a 'Code of Sound Environmental Practice' which aooresses practicai
en\ironmental issues during the design and construction phases of road projects. The proposed
screening process set out in Section 2'1 will ensure that broader issues, such as any indirect
environmental effects of a newx road project. will be dealt with in a comprehensive EA for that
project.
3.2.   Identirication of Environmental Effects
The first step in reducing adverse environmental effects is to identify those components of a
project, that is activities, which could potentially cause them. The aim of breaking down a
project into its component activities is that it can then be assumed that the effect of each
activity is the same, and the same mitigation measures can be applied, no matter which project
the activity is part of To ensure that this assumption is valid activities are classified as
different if they take place in different existing environments, for example different terrains,
where this could affect the impact the activity has.
Aspects of road planning and design, and road construction activities, which could potentially
affect the environment, and for which potential effects have been identified and assessed, are
listed in the first column in Appendix 1. These are mostly activities which could potentially
cause a direct effect on the environment. The activities are listed under three phases, namely.
the planning and design phases, the construction preparation phase including ancillary
operations, and the construction phase of the road.
Following is an explanation or definition of each of the activities listed so far in Appendix I
(activity numbers in brackets):-
Setting Design Standards (1.1) - refers to decisions on standards such as carriage wav and
shoulder width, design speed, minimum curve radius, maximum grade, steepest cut and fill
batter slope etc., which can all have a major influence on the direct effects that a project has on
the environment. For any new roads, the project-specific EA which is prepared should address
the effects of alternative design standards in more detail than included in these Guidelines.
Design - General (1.2) - covers a number of aspects of the design process which can
potentially affect the environmental impact that the road has.
Design - Drainage (1.3) - identifies a number of potentially adverse environmental effects
which can result from the design of the drainage system. This includes both culverts and
irri2ation ditches as well as the road pavement drainage system such as side ditches.
Acquiring Land (1.4) - refers to the process of obtaining land for road widening, or for
constructing a new road. The potential effects impact on the social/cultural components of the
environment rather than the physical ones. For any new roads the project-specific EA which is
prepared should address this issue in more detail.
Relocating People (1.5) - refers to the process, separate from any formal acquiring of land, of
moving people off land required for road widening, or for constructing a new road. Those
required to be relocated may not have any formal right to the land but the potential
social/cultural effects can be just as great. For any new roads the project-specific EA which is
prepared should address this issue in more detail.



Nlobilising Equipment (2.1) - include the delivery of materials. plant and equipment to the
site before the work commences It often involves the use of heavy transport vehicles uhich
can cause air and noise pollution
Nlobilising WXorkforce (2.2) - refers to the introduction of a work-force from outside the local
area which can be culturally or even ethnically different from the local population. This can
cause social problems between the outsiders and the local people, as well as having an impact
on the health and long-term economic well-being of the local community.
Establishment and Operation of a Labour Camp (2.3) - refers to the camp established to
house the workforce which could result in the pollution of watercourses and in a depletion of
local resources such as timber which the local people may have been using on a sustainable
basis.
Establishment and Operation of Base Camp and Workshops (2.4) - refers to the depot or
base where construction machinery is kept and serviced, fuels and oils are stored, and
stockpiles of materials are kept. Frequently the site office is also located there and sometimes
the base camp is combined with the labour camp although the activities and their effects on the
environment are different and should be assessed separately.
Setting Up and Operation of an Asphalt Plant or Asphalt Preparation Area (2.5) - is an
activity which could involve setting up and operating a major mechanical asphaltic concrete
production plant, including conveyors, oil fired rotary aggregate dryers/heaters and batch
mixers On the other hand it may just involve heating aggregate and bitumen over open wood
fires and hand mixing.
Setting Up and Operating a Quarry or Borrow Pit (2.6) - usually involves a mechanical
diaRer removing suitable material from a selected site, sometimes for stable fill but usually to
produce sub-base or basecourse which will usually involve the use of explosives to-first break
up the rock.
Setting Up and Operating a Quarry Wining Rock from River or Stream Beds (2.7) -
usually involves a mechanical digger of some sort removing rocks of a suitable size for
crushing from the river bed and loading them onto trucks, although sometimes the rocks are
selected and loaded by hand.
Setting Up and Operating a Rock Crushing Plant (2.8) - is sometimes done as part of the
quarry operation or sometimes as part of the asphalt production plant, although it is a separate
activity which has separate potential effects on the environment. Usually the operation is
carried out using large and noisy mechanical crushers although sometimes it is done by hand if
labour is cheap and time is not critical.
Earthworks Involved in Widening in Flat Terrain (3.1) - This activity would usually
involve only minor cut and fill operations but could involve removing significant roadside
vegetation.



Earthworks Involved in Widening in Steep Terrain or though Unstable Land (3.2) This
activivy would usually involve cut and fill operations depending on the shape and width of the
existing formation. Cuttina back- batters could involve removing significant roadside
venetation which may have become established on the existing batters.
Earthworks Involved in Widening through Settlements (3.3) - This could affect buildings.
even if the widening takes place within the road reserve, because they have often been
constructed closer to the road than they should have been. Similarly footpaths, tracks or public
utility lines could be affected.
Drainage Improvement W'orks (3.4) - includes the construction of all drainage works which
is mainly ditches beside the road but also includes culverts and any other pipes or structures
required to channel or control stormwater flow.
Pavement Base Construction or Gravel Surfacing (3.5) - These two activities are identical
and involve the placing and rolling of the gravel pavement layers, Sometimes using vibrating
rollers.
Bituminous Surfacing (3.6) - is the placing and compaction of any of the various bitumen
sealing or resealing surfaces such as, for example, single bituminous surface treatment (SBST),
double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) or asphaltic concrete.
Transport of Project Materials (3.7) - includes the transport of earth, rock, gravel (crushed
rock), bitumen, asphaltic concrete and any other material used, or the transport of any
equipment or machinery used, during the construction.
The potential effects of each of these activities are assessed in a qualitative fashion in the
second column in Appendix 1.
At this stage only a limited number of the most important activities and their potential impacts
have been included in Appendix 1. They were selected from a large number of potential
impacts identified in a number of references (References 3 to 9). This selection was partly done
to keep the Guidelines simple at this stage, which will make it more likely that they will be
used. As familiarity with the concepts increases within the MCTPC the Guidelines can be
expanded as explained in Sections 2.3 and 2.4.
Note that only the effects of road works activities on the environment are identified, not the
effects of the environment on the road. Examples of the latter are major landslides, caused by
land clearing or cultivation, or scour, caused by flooding or meandering rivers, which damage
a road or bridge. Designing roads to withstand these effects of the environment is a road
engineering problem.
3.3    Environmental Mitigation Measures
The third column in Appendix I contains suggested mitigation measures for each potentially
negative environmental impact of an activity identified. The mitigation measures should be
applied to any project which includes the particular activity. Many of the mitigating measures
are simply sound engineering practice, which may already be regularly applied to works under
the control of the MCTPC, but it is hoped that Appendix I will be a useful checklist.
The difficultv with road projects is to ensure that the mitigation measures developed are



actually applied in practice It has been found that the best w ay to ensure this is to interate tlhe
measures. as far as possible. into design and construction processes and procedures
The measures set out in the first section under 'Planning, Design &- Land Acquisition' should
all be considered and implemented during the planning and design process and every designer
should ensure that they are conversant with all the potential effects. The measures for activities
1.4 Acquiring Land' and 1.5 'Relocating People' are also for project administrators to
implement.
The relevant mitigating measures in the second and third sections, 'Construction Preparation'
and 'Construction', should all be included in the contract documents to ensure they are carried
out. Mlany of the mitigating measures should also have an item included in the bill of quantities
for the contract if it is a unit price contract. An identified extra payment will ensure that the
contractor actually carried out the work-, will ensure there is money budgeted for it and will
clearly identify any extra costs associated with environmental measures.
All potential effects and mitigating measures should also be included in any training courses,
or general guidelines, prepared for those supervising contracts.
Appendix 2 contains more detailed suggestions and advice for both road designers and those
supervising road construction contracts on environmentally sound design and construction
practices. It basically expand on the suggested mitigation measures outlined in the last column
of Appendix I and, where applicable, the clause numbers refer to the relevant activity numbers
in Appendix 1.
There are some measured which are more general and are more to do with increasing general
environmental awareness, including that of local people who can have a substantial effect on
some of the mitigation measures. These measures can be covered in training courses on the
environmental aspects of road projects but have not so far been included in either Appendix I
or 2.
There are some suggested contract clauses in Appendix 3 which could be used in contract
documents to ensure that certain mitigation measures are carried out by the contractor. These
clauses should'be used with caution, and may need to be reworded for specific contracts, to
ensure that they do not contradict other parts of the contract documents and fit neatly into the
style and format.
Monitoring is required to ensure that the mitigation measures contained in the last column in
Appendix 1, and especially those incorporated into clauses in contract documents, are actually
carried out and are effective. By including clauses into a contract document, and specific items
into the bill of quantities forming part of a contract, monitoring and supervision of the
application of these measures is automatically included in the normal engineering supervision
of the contract.



Those responsible for supervising road construction contracts should be made aware of the
imporiance of environmental mitigation clauses in contracts as part of their normal trainintI
They should also be made aware of the extra responsibilities of supervisors to liaise directly
with local people, so that they can monitor the effects of the work on them and immediately
instruct the contractor to introduce measures to reduce any adverse effects. This is clearly spelt
out for some of the measures in the last column in Appendix 1.
Should those supervising a contract detect any previously unexpected environmental problems,
there should be provisions in the contract to allow them to instruct the contractor to take
immediate action to remedy the situation. Suggested draft wording of an appropriate clause to
include in contract documents is also included in Appendix 3.
Reference
I     World Bank Operational Manual - Operational directive (OD) 4.01: Environmental
Assessment (October 1991).
2=    "On the Road to Laos - A report on the social impact of road construction on rural
communities in Lao PDR" - Ing-Britt Trankell - Department of Social Anthropologv,
Stockholm University - Report No. 22 (1992).
3     "Environmental Assessment Source book Volume I" - World Bank- Technical Paper
Number 139 (1991).
4     "Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Volume 2" - World Bank Technical Paper
Number 140 (1991).
5     "Environmental Evaluation and Road Infrastructure - Practical Guide (draft)" - World
Bank - Setra - BCEOM (June 1992).
6:   "Environmental Evaluation and Road Infrastructure - Practical Guide - Technical Data
Sheets (draft)" - World Bank - Setra - BCEOM (June 1992).
7     "Erosioh Control During Highway Construction - Manual on Principles and Practices"
Report 221 of the Transportation Research Board, National Research Council (April
1986).
8_    "Watershed Management Field manual - Road Design and Construction in Sensitive
Watersheds" Conservation Guide 13/5, FAO of the UN (1989).
9     "Conservation and Regeneration Techniques" J.F. Walden, west Australia Main Roads
Department Road Engineers Course (1982).
10.   "Environmental Assessment Source book Update Number 4-Sectoral Environmental
Assessment"-World Bank Environmental Department (October 1993).



I 3l
A PPFIN1NI)IX I
FNVIRONNMFNTAL FFFECTS amd MITIGATION MEASURES
For Road IMroiccts it) Lao PDR measures
Fuir.lier delails of mitigation mcasures are incilided in Appcndix 2
Sonie suggestcd clauses for contract docuiniicn arc appenidix 3.
ACTIVITY                                              POTENTIAL. EFFECTS                                           MITIGATION MEASURES
I.      P', 1limnL  csigni & lanid Acauisilion
1. I.    Selling Design) SlandLrds                      If slandards arc too lhigli excessive carthworks can cause     Sel slandards appropriate for class of road. traflic an(l
otlier eflects. (Sec activilies uinder "3. Cotistniction")     terrain.
1.2     Design-General                                 Land requireimients affect local people.                        Mini iiise land acquisiliona nid resetiiciciicit in seciclitig
allignmlentl.
Exisling btiildings. possibly illegallv consinicte(d within     Attenipt lo negotiate a rair design or comnI)cplsatiio
lie toad resere,. couid le afecteld.                            solutioni u  ich tIoes niot cause tiim(dic hardship h wt also
does not encourage othlers to build v% itnlti the ioad
reserve.
Roads and eubanikmieuts can cause severance and social        luiclide appropriate  umitiber of bridges and cujl%cris in
disniption.                                                     the design to utittimii ise inconveiieie lo local people
Road   ideniing can affect existinig lines of roadside          Wideci one side oilv to retain trees on at least ouie sidle.
tress.
Roads can have imipacts on wildlife. virgin forest areas.       Avoid sucil areas as iltichi as possible in ilhe desigin.
ciultural relics etc.
Roads can cause noise anid air pollitiont.                      Integrate inito tile designi, where appropriate sonii(l
barriers. forest belts etc.
rN lj'nRNMErN7i1j. G(UIPr.)LINE



APIPEN I)IX I (contlituecd)
ACTI IVITI Y                                           POTl ENITIAL EFFECTS                                           MITIlGATION MEASURES
1.2     I)esign-General (contiilie(l)              Roads can cause ain incrcase in traifc speeds aiid accideits       Enstirc a safe design inclidinig speed resiriclioni and
affectinggroad users, local pcopleandandiaii;,ls.                 warninig signs. footpaths, safe crossings and( Fences to
control livestock as necessanr and  iherc possible.
Discuss possibie dcsigns witih local peoplc.
Tranic on roads can increase pollution of adjaceni surfacc         Plant or prcscnvc a vcgetativc bulfFcr z1oiiC bct%cCi Itic
water bodies.                                                      road and a surface water bodv.
Traflic can cause dust pollutioni on gravel roads especiallk       Incorporate sectionis of bitininiiiouis surfacing lunoiigli
tIlhoughi seilleentieis                                            seilemenitiis for gravel road designs.
1.3     Dcsigin - Drainage                          Can alter hydrological regimies and alfect floodinig anid           Enstirc cuhlerts. and road drainagc arc adcquatclve
cxisting irrigation systems.                                       dcsigne(d to minimilise cfeccls.
Can causC negative impacts of concentrating water and              Ensuire  design  improves thie  drainage  s%stcmm  b!
increasing scour and soil erosion.                                 recifying any existing probIemls. suchi as scour of
adjacent lands, which shlonid be chiecked for (lurinig ilic
mionsoonis. Incilide tree/tiurF plamitiig in design wilerc
possibie.
Can affecl washing/drinking water supplied. Local peopie           Incorporate  washing/drinking  water nee(Is inito  hlie
someieliiles initerfere with drainage svstems because of tlis,     design. Discuss witli local people.
which can result in danitage to the road.
Drainiage front senrice areas can cause water pollutiont.          Install adequale  waste water Ireatment facilities al
service areas.
ENI'RIINAIEN1AI, (;UII)E,INE



i s
APl'PFND)IX  I (cot iinucd)
AC'rIVII'y                                              POITENI'IAI, EFFECTS                                            MIITIGATION MEASURES
1.4     Ac(Iiiriiing land              Call cansc dissalisfacliol aid opposition) fro,, landowners                       Discluss  willh  iiosc  affected  at al11 slagcs.  P'ay
and uiscrs.                                                         rcasonablc comilpcisaltiont for  impact oil popscitics
and/or disnrption of inicoIIIes.
1.5     Rclocatinig People                           Can  causc dissatisfaction anid  opposition  front peoplC           Disciuss wilti those alfectced at all stagcs and provide
relocaled                                                           suitable  new  resettlemcict locations willh  adcqnliate
infrastnrcture. In consulltationi will, affected  people
design competisation aftd rescilletcint policies (bolt,
land and non-lanid based) aimed at restoring incomies to
IeelCIs existing berore rescilettlentil.
2.-Conslniclion Pre.paration
2.1.    Mobilising Equipmenllt                       Air and noise poliliioi for frany nearby sctlemciits.                Coitirol conlraclors' vehicle speeds and ntoise.
2.2.    MIobilisinig Workforce                       Tlic  introduictioni of ant onitside %voikforce can have a           Inisist that colitractor eilmploy  local pCople  %helem
nicgativc impact on1 the licalth and social well-being of local     possible.
pcoplc.
2.3.     Establishment and Operation of              Possible pollutioni cauised bv doimcstic sew%age anid solid          Insist that tlie contractor inistalls anid mainains a sepltic
Labotir Camp.                               wastes.                                                             tank system. and a sysltemi  for disposiing of solid
wastes.
Possible excessive or uticonitrolled  tise of fuclvood  in          Insist th1e contractor supplies  allernative  fucl for
labour camp.                                                        cookinig anid heating in the labour camilp.
Possible development of labotir camitp. linto a permanent           Ilisist colilraclor removes th1c labouir camp. At tilc
sclelenlittll .                                                     comiipletioni or tIc conlract.
Possible poachintg of local ganlic by oulisi(dc Itit;L4             P rohibit poaching and niakc conlractor responisibic for
rctenx'cs Lite labour-efimnp}.                                      Ihis workers.
rNvl'IONvmrN7A1. GUID)ELINE



I (
APP'FEN )D X I (colit nucd()
AC(I"IVlI  Y                                           POTENTIAL EFFECTS                                               MITIGATION MEASURES
2.4     FEslablishlmnt and Operalion Of               Airaid iloise pollution for any ncarby scitleuicuits                Locale  basccamip  and  workshop  away  [fromi ami
Basc Campij, and Worksliop.                                                                                      residential selleentcs.
Possibic ground and water conlaminat ion by oil, grcasc anid        Collect arnd rccyclc lubricaits. Avoid spills and liae a
fucl in vards.                                                      ditchi arouind ilic area with a settiiig pond/oil lrap al ilic
olutict.
2.5     Sciing Up and Opcrafioni of an               Air and noisc polltiioni for anv nearby sctilciniils.               Locatc asphiall away from any rcsideinial scllecinctis.
Asphalt Plant or Asphalt
Preparation arca.
Possibic grounid and waler contamination bv bitiiumci or           Avoid spills b)it surrouid arca with a (ilcil %%ilti a
solvents.                                                           sciling pond/oil Irap at tlic outlet.
Cutiniig do%s n trees to usc as fucliiood for heating bitumilcil    Insist that tlic contractor inot uisc fiulewood for licaiilg
and stoiis,                                                         during Imie processing of aimy materials.
2.6     Sciinig Up and Operatingra                    Noise, vibration and dust frotim  basing could affect any           Locate  planw  away  froimi any  icsidential or otlier
Quarrv or Borrow Pit.                        ncarby scittleicits or olier scnsitivc arcas.                       cnirotmuentaliv  sceisitive  arcas  suchi as hospitals.
inticusivc  liveslock  produicliomi  areas  or  % ildtlif
brccding areas. Also avoid fanulands or forcsis as
inucl as possible. Restrict work to daylight lhours and
limit tIme size and frequncicv of any blastiiig.
ENVIRONAiNEN7AI. G;UID)EL,INE



17
AIPPEI ND)IX I (conliiiied)
ACTIVITY                                                POTENTIAL EFFECTS                                                MI1TIGATION MIEASURtES
2.6      Setling Up and Operating a                    Accidenis front blasing.                                             Insist iliat the contractor canl elsuire tlie area is clear of
Quarry or Borrowv Pit                                                                                             local peoplc bcfore blasting comniieiccs. Use a maritirig
(conlitinued)                                                                                                     sircn and infonin tlie local populationi what it enicats.
2.7      Selting Up and Opcrating a                   An abandoned quarnr or borrows pit canl be a dangerouis area          Insist tlie contractor Ieaves tlie arc in a safc. tidi and
Qujarry Winniniig Rock froml                 for  cilildren  and  result  in  stagnant  walcr breedinig           drained coidilion.
Riv er or Stream Beds.                        iosqiitoes.
Removing material and disitrbinig ilic ri%er nfow can cause          Insist ilie  contractor limits Ilie  depth  of material
sedienitii for downstream users and can also uInlderliiine or        reiumo ed at anv onie location and onl1v %.oiks location
damuage Ilte river banks.                                              here  ilicre  is little  tine  material to  be  callicd
downstream.
Chaniginig tlie river bed coild affect local fishinug areas.         Discuss proposcd locatiom, with local pcople/fisicrimei
and insist contractor obtainis their approval.
2.S      Setiing Up and Operaliont a Rock             Air and noise polltilioni for an! nearby scilleclemints and diust     Locate plant amwv fromil any resideinial are;as or olimce
Cilshing Plant,                              on local crops and vegetation anid in watercourses.                   etironumetalliv sensitive areas and inisist contraclor
lias adequiate duist contlrol devices Fitted to tlie plan.
3.       Constnictioni
3. 1     Eariluworks Involved in                      Erosion  froin  earthworks can incre-ase sedimeintationt in           Limit eartilhworks to tie dry season as municih as possible.
Wideniig in Flat Terrain.                    drains, waterways and irrigation ditcies.                             Protect exposed earthwomks with miulcih  fabric and
platit cover.
ENvI "RONME lVAI. GUID)ELINE



lx
AFtEND)IX I (coItiillcd)
ACTI IVITI Y                                           POTl ENNTIAl.  FF  ECTS                                         MITIGATION MEASURES
3.2     Elilihworks Involved in                       Can cause slips or landslides, and erosioni front eaiarworks       Lintit eartilmvoiks lo Ilic dr season as inicih as possible
Wideninig in Steep Terrain. Or               can  increase  sedimentation  in  drains, waternavs  and            Consinict walls and protect cxposed earilmworks Nilth
tlrougih Unstable Land.                      irrigationi ditclies                                                 itilcl, fabric and plant cover.
Spoil disposal by simply side lipping is utisighitlv and can        Insist contraclor disposes of spoil to designaied stable
concenitrate nuoff anid cause erosion.                              tipping areas.
3.3    Earthworks Involved in                        Exisling property froitlages, foolpallis. Iracks or public          Reduce efrects of i%idening tlirouigil setlicinicnis Ib
Wideinig in liroughi                        ulilily linies could bc disturbed.                                  covering over drains to enable tile area lo be usedI b!
Settilemeits.                                                                                                    pedestrians and/or for parking.
Possible  noise anid vibration, especially  if eariltorks           Restrict w%ork to daylight lhours and limit ilie size aid
involve blastinig  could affect nearby setilelicenits or oilier     frequency of amm, blasting near settleenieits (especialI.
sensitive areas.                                                    hospitals) and niear intensive livestock proulIctfion an
wildlife breeding areas.
Historical remains or cilitiral iteis couild be uncovered.          Conlractor lo ensuire all sucli finds are reporicd and
discussed wilih represenlalives of tlie local people.
3.4     Drainage Iniprovecimeict Works.               Spoil disposal front drain excavation by simiple side tippinig      Insisl conlractor disposes of spoil lo dcsignalcd stahbc
is uinsiglitil anid canl coIIceintrate ninllo anid cauisc crosioni.  tipping areas.
Works  can  have  tenmporanr  affects  on  irrigation  or           Ensuire contractor takes into accounti local water uses.
vasihing/drinikinig water supplies.                                 Temporar) drainage niay have to be constnicted.
ENIIRONAIfEN7AL GUll)EILINE



I 9
APlPFNlDIX  I (continued)
ACTIVITY                                    POTENTIA L EFFECrS                                 M IrIGATION MEASU IES
3.5    I'avemienit Base                     Dust noise and vibrations.                             Inclu(le and allowance for watering in the
Conistictionl or Gravel                                                                     contract and control contractors equipment
Surfacinig.                                                                                 noise  and  vibrations  especially  close  to
settlemiients.
Effect on trailic anid pedestriani safety.             Provide an  allowance  for, and  inlsist tlie
contractor  uses,  safe  trafrnc  control  as
necessary and causes the minimiiumii possible
disruption to all traffic.
3.6    B3irumilitioLis Suirfacing.          Possible pollution) of waterways or giouinidwater      Strict control to avoid spills or clean up
by bituminous products or solvates.                    imimlediately afler and prohibit work in rain.
3.7   T1ransport of Project                 Air and noise pollution for any nearby settlemilenits  Control conitractors vehiicle spee(ds, noise and(
Materials.                          and damage to existing roads.                           weighit of loads and control (list and flying
debris by covering loads or wetting material if
necessary. Construct temporary roads if
necessary. Use locally available constructioni
material  wherever  possible  to  minimiiise
transport distances.
ENV- R 1'ONMENTAI. GUID)EI.INE






APPEN-DIX 2
SOME SUGGESTED DETAILS FOR ENV IRONMIENTAL MIITIGATION MIEASU RES
For Road Projects in Lao PDR
(Clause numbers refer to activity number in Appendix I)
(1 1)   Geometric design standard for roads should be prepared for present conditions in Lao
PDR. As an example simple Desirable Minimum Standards for Local or Provincial
roads with less than 100 vehicles per day, for three different terrains, could be,
Flat to Rolling                 Hilly               Mountainous
Surfacing                             Gravel                  Gravel
Pavement Width (m)                     4.5                      4.5
Pavement + Shoulder (m)                7.5                      6.0
Design Speed (kph)                      60                      30
Max. Gradient(%)                        8                        12
It may be considered that the above standards are too low for Provincial roads and
higher standards could be set for them. However care should be taken not to set the
standards too high, not only to avoid environmental effects, but also because it may
make road projects designed to those standard economically not viable. Similar tables
to that above could be prepared for each different class of road and for different ranged
of traffic volumes.
(1. 1) Typical cross section standards should also not be set at too high. It is suggested that in
most situations a cut slope of 1:1/2 (Vertical to horizontal) is adequate, with provisions
for flattening the batter, if instructed by the Engineer, in areas where soils are soft.
Adequate maintenance funds should also be available in the first few years after
construction to allow for removing from the road any material that may slip down. If
the height of the cut is more than 5 metres then a 1 metre wide bench should be
constructed at every 5 metres height interval. This bench should slope back towards the
batter slope to allow water to run off along the bench parallel with the road alignment.
and discharge into the roadside drain. Cut off drains may also be required in adjacent
high ground above the cut to minimise water running down, and erosion of, the slope.



1.' >    Trafric signs are an important safety and directional feature of roads and should be
shown on the design drawings for any road rehabilitation or construction project
Similarly other safety measures such as guard-rails should be considered at
particularly dangerous locations. Through settlements, or other areas where there are
significant numbers of pedestrians, paths for them to walk safely should be included
in the design or simply formed during construction when natural walking routes can
often be observed.
1.3       One of the main aims in the design of the road drainage system is to ensure that
storm runoff is not concentrated to such an extent that it causes erosion. This means
that on sideling cuts sufficient cross road drains, or culverts, should be provided and
the outlets designed to reduce the water velocity and prevent erosion. Usually in
steep country a pipe, or open lined outlet drain, will be required all the way to a
natural stream. Longitudinal roadside drains should be either lined, or have energy
dissipaters or check dams to slow down the water, to prevent erosion where the
slope of the drain is greater than 5%. W'here the slope is greater than 10%/o the drain
should always be lined.
(1.4. 1.5)  It is important that consultations are carried out, at all stages of any road project,
with the local people affected by the project. These consultations should first take
place at the initial planning stage of the project, before the design is finalised, as the
information obtained could result in changed or improvements to the design, or even
the alignment. Consultations should be conducted by someone within MCTPC who
can authorise changes. They can take the form of public meetings at say village
level. Meeting only with village chiefs are usually not sufficient to cover all the
issues, or brincg out all the concerns of local people. Because many people cannot
foresee effects further consultations, after construction has started, should also be
carried out.
(2.6)     Quarries or borrow pits should preferably be part of the initial design of a road so
that the locations can be selected to avoid environmentally sensitive areas, or areas
where runoff and erosion cannot be controlled. Environmental damage can be
minimised if the design, size, and method of operation of quarried to be used are
specified in the contract documents. If, on the other hand, the contractor selects the
site, then the supervising Engineer must ensure that it can be operated without any
undue adverse effects on the environment, and may need to put conditions or
restrictions on its use before giving his approval for that site. Consideration should
be given to the depth, and the steepness of the side slopes, which will be allowed,
remembering the need to leave the area drained and stable on completion of the
contract. If the onus is put on the contractor he may be able to organise his operation
in such a way that the area can be used as a spoil disposal area to restore it back to a
safe and stable condition. The suggeested contract clause in Appendix 3 includes a
provision for prior approval in writing bv the Engineer for any quarry or borrow pit.



(2 . 3i6)  When storina. handling and preparing asphalt mixes it is very important for the
Engineer to ensure that the contractor takes the following necessary precaution,
Stockpile sites for drums are to be reasonably level and kept clear of undergrowth
and rubbish.
*  Drums containing cleaning oil should be stacked on end with the filling hole
upwards and tilted (by resting one side on a piece of timber) to prevent water
accumulating on the top of the drum.
*  Drums containing kerosine, fuel oil, and cut-back bitumen should be stacked on
their sides with the filling hole upwards. The bungs should be tested for
tightness when stacking, and at regular intervals during storage.
*  Drums of bitumen emulsion may be stacked on end or on their sides, but if
stored for any length of time the drums should be rolled regularly.
*  When filling a bitumen distributor tank or kettle with bitumen, in preparation for
heating, it is essential to check and ensure that there is no water in the tank- prior
to loading, as this will cause a violent expansion of the bitumen with consequent
frothing and boiling over.
-  During the blending of bitumen with kerosine (diluent) for the manufacture of
cut-back bitumen. the temperature will rise above the flash point of the diluent.
(Kerosine has a flash point of 140°c.) No naked flames or smoking should be
allowed in the vicinity of the blending tank, and the temperature of the bitumen
to be cut back should be kept as low as possible.
*  When fighting a fire in a bitumen tank water should not be used. The contractor
should provide and maintain on site a carbon dioxide (CO2) extinguisher for fire
fighting purposes.
(3 .1, 3.2)  Because soil conditions in Lao are very variable it is a sensible precaution in any
road design to include designs for some standard and simple retaining wall
structures, such as crib walls, and put an allowance for a certain area of these in the
Bill of Quantities. This means that if problems are encountered with steep and
unstable slopes during construction then the supervising Engineer can simply call
for a wall to be built at that location. Similarly for any earthworks batters which do
not require a wall, but could be subject to surface erosion, the engineer should be
able to order the exposed earthworks to be protected by mulch, fabric and plant
cover, and a certain area of this should also be allowed for in most contracts. This is
particularly important if the surface erosion is also likely to cause sedimentation in
local uatercourses.



(3.2)      In steep, forested country it is, often preferable to use a backhoe rather than a
bulldozer or traxcavator to do the basic earthworks. A backhoe can excavate and
remove material, and load it into trucks, without the excessive side spill which often
occurs, especially with bulldozers.
(3.2 3.4)  The supervising Engineer should designate the areas where spoil is disposed of,
especially in steep country.. The area should first be roughly levelled or benched to
prevent future slipping. Where possible spoil disposal areas should not be located
uphill of rivers, or lakes, or near populated areas, but if they are then drains should
be dug around the disposal area, and silt traps, using settling ponds and local brush,
constructed at the outlets of these drains. Note that a general suggested contract
clause in appendix 3 requires the contractor to locate and control disposal areas as
directed by the engineer, and includes a separate item in the Bill of Quantities for
this. It may be advantageous in difficult terrain to actually locate and desian the
spoil disposal area from the start, and include the details in the contract to ensure
that the contractor allows for it in his price.
(3.4, 4.2)  Often local people use roadside drainage ditches as part of their irrigating system, or
they may have constructed small dams in these ditches to pond the water for use as
the local village water supply for washing or bathing. These uses should be noted
during the initial planning of the project and discussed during consultations with the
local people. Wherever possible these uses should be catered for in the design of the
project. If not allowed for then local people may in future re-establish these uses
themselves, but damage the road, or the drainage system, in the process.



APPENDIX 3
SAMIPLE EN'VIRONMIENTAL CLAUSES FOR CONTRACT DOCUMlENTS
For Road projects in Lao PDR
(Clause numbers refer to activity numbers in Appendix I)
General
( )  Notwithstanding other obligations, if, in the opinion of the Engineer, damage is being
done to the environment by the Works under construction the Engineer may instruct
the Contractor to cease work iimmediately, or change the approach or method of
work. (See Sample Bidding Documents, Word Bank, Dec. 1991, Part II 2. 1)
( )       The Provisional sum, Item__ in the Bill of Quantities, is for any work deemed to be
required by the Engineer to remedy any unexpected environmental problems, or
potential environmental problems, which may arise as a result of the Works. The
Engineer may instruct either the Contractor, or a nominated Subcontractor, to carry
out the work.
( )       The Contractor shall ensure that full consideration is given to the control of
environmental aspects, and that all provisions of the design and specification
requirements relating to pollution of the environment, and protection of adjacent land
and waterways, are complied with.
(2.1)     Mobilisation of heavy equipment to and from the site shall be carried out at time of
lowest traffic on the routes used.
(2.1,3.7)  The Contractor shall use selected routes, as advised by the Engineer, and
appropriately sized vehicles suitable to the class of road, and shall restrict loads to
prevent damage to roads and bridges used for transportation purposes to the project
site. The Contractor shall be held responsible for any damage caused to the roads and
bridges due to the transportation of excessive loads, and shall be required to make
good such damage to the approval of the engineer.
(2.1, 3.7)  The Contractor shall not use any vehicles, either on or off road, whose exhaust or
noise emissions are grossly excessive, and in any built up areas noise mufflers shall
be installed and maintained in good condition on all motorised equipment under the
control of the Contractor.
(3.3. 3.5)  The Contractor shall limit construction works to between 6am and 10pm if it is to be
carried out in or near residential areas.
(3.5. .7)  The contractor shall also avoid the use of heavy or noisy equipment in specified areas
late at night, or in sensitive areas such as near a hospital.
APPENDIX 3 (continued)



(3.5. 3.7)  To prevent dust pollution during dry periods the Contractor shall carry out regular
waterincg of earth and gravel haul roads and shall cover soil haulag'e trucks with
tarpaulins if the soil is dry.
(3.5)      Adequate traffic control measures shall be maintained by the Contractor throughout
the duration of the Contract, and prior to any restriction being applied to two way
traffic movement written permission must be obtained from the Engineer for the
proposed traffic control measures to be used and for the length of time the restriction
is proposed to be in place.
(2.2)      The Contractor shall recruit locally as large a proportion of the workforce as is
possible, and shall provide appropriate training where necessary.
(2.3)      The Contractor shall install and maintain a temporary septic tank system for any
residential labour camp established and ensure that this does not cause any pollution
of nearby watercourses. The contractor shall also make the system inoperative and
safe on completion of the contract and the removal of the camp.
(2.3)      The Contractor shall establish a method and svstem for storing and disposing of all
solid wastes generated by the labour camp and/or the base camp.
(2.3)      The Contractor shall not allow the use of fuelwood for heating or cook-ing in any
labour or base camp but shall provide alternate facilities using other fuels.
(2.4, 2.5)  The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots, asphalt plants and workshops are
located in appropriate areas, as approved by the Engineer, and not within 500 metres
of existing residential settlements, and asphalt plans not within 1000 metres.
(2.4, 2.5)  The Contractor shall also ensure that site offices, depots and particularly storage
areas for diesel fuel and bitumen, and asphalt plants, are not located within 500
metres of watercourses, and are operated so that no pollutants enter watercourses,
either overland or through groundwater seepage, especially during periods of heavy
rain. This will require lubricants to be recycled and a ditch to be constructed around
the area with an approved settling pond/oil trap at the outlet.
(2.5)      The contractor shall not use fuelwood as a means of heating during the processing or
preparation of any materials forming part of the Works.



AxPPE-DIX 3 (continued)
Quarries or Borrow Pits
(2.6)      Approval to open a new borrow area. on land or in river, or to operate an existing
area, shall be obtained from the Engineer in writing before any borrow operation is
commenced, and the operation shall cease immediately and permanently at any
location when instructed to by the Engineer. Pits shall be prohibited, or have
restrictions applied to their operation, where they might interfere with the natural or
designed drainage. River locations shall be prohibited where they might undermine or
damage the river banks or cause too much fine material to be carried downstream.
(2.6)      The Contractor shall ensure that all borrow pits used are left in a trim and tidy
condition with stable sides and slopes, and drained so that no stagnant water bodies
are created which could breed mosquitos.
(2 7)      Rock or gravel won from a river shall be removed over some distance so as to limit
the depth of material removed to one tenth of the width of river at any one location,
and not disrupt the river flow or damage or undermine the river banks.
(2.8)      The contractor shall ensure that rock crushing plants are located as approve by the
Engineer, and not close to environmentally sensitive areas, or within one kilometre of
existing residential settlements, and operated with approved dust control devices
fitted.
Earthworks-General
(3 1, 3.2)  The Contractor shall not carry out any earthworks during the rainy season unless
specific permission is obtained in writing from the Engineer or his representative for
properly controlled earthworks at specific locations.
(3.1. 3.2)  The Contractor shall maintain stable cut and fill slopes at all times and shall cause the
minimum possible disturbance to areas outside the prescribed limits of the work.
(3.1, 3.2)  The Contractor shall complete cut and fill operations to final cross-sections at any
one location as soon as possible and preferably in one continuous operation and not
leave partly completed earthworks, especially during the rainy season.
(3.1. 3.2)  The Contractor shall ensure that any cut or fill slopes are planted in grass or other
plant cover as soon as possible to protect them from erosion.
(3 1. 3.2)  To prevent erosion cut off drains and toe-drains shall be provided at the top and
bottom of slopes as shown on the drawings or as directed by he Engineer.



.APPENDIX 3 (continued)
Earthworks - Disposal of Surplus Material
(32, 3.4)  Any spoil cut to waste, or material removed from drains, shall be disposed of to
designated stable tipping areas as directed b) the Engineer, and separate items are
included in the Bill of Quantities to allow for this.
(3.2, 3.4)  Side tipping of surplus excavated material shall only be permitted where
specifically allowed by the Engineer.
(3.2, 3.4)  Before starting any earth-moving operation at any location the Contractor shall
obtain the Engineer's approval of the areas he proposes to use as waste dumps.
Locations for waste dumps are not to be sites where they will cause future slides,
interfere with agricultural land or any other properties or cause soil from the dump
to be wasted into any watercourse. During may need to be dug within and around
the waste dumps as directed by the Engineer and this, together with the proper
placement of the spoil, should be allowed for in the cut to waste item in the
Schedule of Quantities. The only item in the Schedule of Quantities paid for
separately is the haul distance (mi3 times kms ) to the waste dump directed by the
Engineer.
Note that some consider a separate item for hauling spoil material to designated
waste dumps is too difficult and complicated to administer and if the locations of
waste dumps have been decided as part of the design, or if the Contractor is made
aware of the criteria which will be used by the Engineer in selecting waste dumps,
then a separate measurement or payment could be omittedfor complying with this
requirement.
Drainage Works
(3.1 to 3.4)  The Contractor may need to construct temporary drains and particularly
temporary sedimentation basins and brushwood barriers to avoid excessive
sedimentation entering local streams river or lakes. These works will be carried
out by the Contract when instructed to by the Engineer but no separate payment
will be made for the work. The onus is therefore on the Contractor to carry out
all works in such a manner so as to avoid erosion and the subsequent of
sedimentation.



