Report No. PID8757
Project Name                     Lao People's Democratic Republic-((@)
Road Maintenance Program
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Highways; Rural Roads
Project ID                       LAPE64821
Borrower(s)                      MOF
Implementing Agency
Address MCTPC
Ministry of Communications, Transport,
Post and Construction
Lane Xang Avenue, P.O. Box 4467
Contact Person: Mr. Sommad Pholsena
Tel: 856-21-412741
Fax: 856-21-414132
Email: sommad@laotel.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 14 to 22, and October 29 to
November 3, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Background Road Network - Road is the dominant mode of transportation in
Lao PDR. About 65% of freight and 90% of all passenger traffic is carried
by road (river transport carries most of the remaining share of freight).
The development and the conservation of the road network are critical to
national and regional integration and to the overall socioeconomic
development of the country. At the end of the 1980s, the road network was
in a state of total disrepair. The roads, already shattered during the
Indochina war, further deteriorated due to lack of funding and appropriate
maintenance systems. Key roads in the national network were not
trafficable during the rainy season and can be traveled only with
difficulty during the dry season. In view of this situation, the
Government, during the past decade, has accorded high priority to the
development of the road network, allocating to this purpose the largest
share of its public investment. During the first half of the 1990s, about
50% of the Public Investment Program (PIP) was allocated to the road
sector (mainly for the upgrading of the national roads). Between US$ 500
and 600 million was spent for the rehabilitation of national and
provincial networks in the '90s.   About 80% was financed by bilateral and
multilateral donors. As a result, about 3,000 km of roads have been
rehabilitated or substantially improved. However, despite the investment
of the last decade, the road network remains under-developed, in poor
condition and generally in a bad state of conservation. Only about 38
percent of the national road network is in good or fair condition. The
country has only 20 percent of its entire road network paved and only a
third of theses roads are in good or fair condition. Most of the
provincial and district road networks consist of tracks that are



impassable during the rainy season. Many villages have no access to social
services and markets, even during the dry season. Moreover, the roads
rehabilitated or reconstructed during the first half of the last decade
are deteriorating at a faster rate than expected. Roads rehabilitated or
constructed 4 to 6 years ago require a level of repair that would normally
be expected after 10 years. This is caused by several factors: slope
stability problems, heavy axle loads, defective pavements due to poor
design and inappropriate material selection, poor construction practice,
and especially insufficient and inadequate maintenance. Thus, although it
is required to improve the road network to all-weather standards
(particularly for provincial, district and rural routes), the need to
preserve the roads constructed in the last decade (essentially national
roads) is crucial and is the top priority. This means that the issue of
deferred and insufficient maintenance needs must first be addressed in
order to break the rapid deterioration cycle in which most of the network
has fallen or is due to fall. Any policy based only on expansion is
plainly unfeasible and not viable from an economic point of view. Without
appropriate maintenance, the degradation of the existing network will
accelerate in the next few years, inevitably leading to the dilapidation
of the basic structure and collapse of the roads. This will make necessary
more onerous rehabilitation and urgent repair works, thus diverting the
already scarce resources from the maintenance of the newly constructed
roads, which on their turn will enter in the rapid cycle of deterioration.
Unreasonable costs for the users, waste of economic and natural resources
and, within time, a significant reduction of the road assets will be the
most likely consequences.The Sustainability of Road MaintenanceAlthough
the basic provisions and mechanisms to maintain the roads have started to
emerge, the execution of maintenance is far from sustainable. The
following issues related to the different aspects of sustainability reside
at the origin of this deficiency:Policy and Economic Issues - In the past,
GoL focused on the reconstruction of the key axes of the road network
which were in a state of disrepair due to the war vicissitudes and to the
severe economic constraints of the period immediately subsequent. This was
a logical priority, given the national integration and security needs.
Yet, in the strategic planning for the reconstruction, the affordability
of the rebuilt network was never taken into consideration, thus failing to
recognize the long-term maintenance needs. Moreover, as in many other
countries, the general concept of road conservation never received popular
appeal.Financial Issues - The difficulty in appreciating the importance of
maintenance meant that insufficient resources have traditionally been
allocated to road maintenance as a result of the national budget
processing. Additionally, given the absence of a policy link between road
use and its deterioration, the level of road user charges has never been
adequate to cover the financial requirements for maintenance. Therefore,
it has been impossible to secure stable and long term financing for road
maintenance on funds allocated from the General Budget. Lastly, resources
for maintenance have sometimes been misappropriated for rehabilitation
works. Institutional and Management Issues - The ability of the
institutions carrying out road maintenance still needs to be improved.
The main institutions in question are namely, the Ministry of
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), and its
provincial branches the Departments of Communications, Transport, Post and
Construction (DCTPC) - and the local contractors. Although MCTPC and its
division responsible for maintenance, the Road Administration Division
(RAD) have strengthened their capacity tremendously in past recent years,
- 2-



shortcomings remain in the planning, data collection and management
supported by automated tools. At the provincial level, the DCTPCs lack
experienced human resources to manage and supervise maintenance operations
and contracts, which functions were delegated few years back in accordance
with the decentralization policy promoted by the Government. Even though
the commercialization of the local contracting industry initiated in the
90s has been successful, the contractors still needs to further develop
their capacity, both in terms of human resources and equipment, in order
to better execute road maintenance contracts. Socio-cultural Issues - The
broader community of road users and beneficiaries does not seem to be
aware of the importance of adequate road maintenance and is not
participating in policy and planning activities. The involvement of the
road users and of the local communities is required to improve the
efficiency of the maintenance system by appropriately establishing
priority interventions as well as identifying potential negative social
and environmental impacts and mitigating measures.Regulatory and
Operational Issues - Together with scarce maintenance, truck overloading
has been identified as a major cause of rapid road deterioration. Without
appropriate axle-load regulations and controls, the efficiency of any
maintenance system is severely hampered.Government StrategyDuring project
preparation, the MCTPC has developed a strategy for the road sector over
the period 2000-2015, Strategic Directions for the Development of the Road
Sector - June 2000, with the overarching goal to support the
socio-economic development and integration of Lao PDR. This strategy was
developed with minimal technical assistance and in full consultation with
the main stakeholders. This strategy includes the following goals: n
Develop road sector institutions and integrated management system;f
Provide balance in funding allocation across the road system and give
funding priority to preserving the capital value of road sector assets;f
Enforce measures to protect road sector assets from overweight vehicles;n
Establish a sustainable domestic funding base;n Provide an environment
suitable for a sustainable domestic contracting industry;n Provide 'focal
sites" with access to agriculture support and health and education
services, and connect all provincial and districts centers to all-weather
network;n Minimize environmental and social impacts;f Improve traffic
safety; andn Encourage community participation in the planing and
execution of road sector activitiesTo pursue the above strategy, taking
into account that the activities in the road sector have grown and become
more sophisticated, the Government intends to develop a modern and
sustainable road financing and management system. This system will ensure
adequate funding for the maintenance of the road network and guarantee
that funds are being used effectively. Such system shall also provide for
the active participation and contribution of road users and beneficiaries
in the management and funding of road maintenance activities and shall
consent to all the institutions and organizations involved to deliver
quality works and services at the most reasonable cost. The Road
Maintenance Program (RMP) will help GOL in pursuing its strategy and a
portion of its long-term sectoral goal by focusing on the development and
implementation of a financing and management system for the maintenance of
the road network.RMP will support the establishment of a financing
mechanism for the preservation of the road assets through the mobilization
of additional resources for the maintenance of the network and their
efficient utilization. This mechanism is based on a dedicated fund, whose
revenues are collected from road user charges that are related to the
utilization of the road network - mainly a fuel levy and a heavy vehicles
- 3 -



charge - and to the needs for its sustainable maintenance. The major
stakeholders, including road users and beneficiaries will be involved in
the process of managing and allocating these resources on the basis of
sound, economic, environmental and social principles. The RMP will also
support the strengthening of the institutions dealing with road
maintenance activities at central, provincial and local level. This will
include government organizations as well as the contracting/consulting
industry and the local organizations. Moreover, the program will support
the implementation of a system to reduce the damage to the road network
caused by truck overloading.RMP would run over a period of nine years from
2001 to 2010 and will cover two phases/projects, the First Road
Maintenance Project (RMP-1) and the Second Road Maintenance Project
(RMP-2) to accompany the substantial policy and institutional reforms
sought.
2. Objectives
RMP-1 would develop and implement financing and management systems
ensuring the sustainable maintenance of the National Road Network (NRN)
country wide and of the Local Road Network (LRN) in four selected
provinces (Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of Bank support relies on its global knowledge and its
extensive involvement in the road sector in Lao PDR. Since the mid 80s,
the Bank has always been at the forefront of various initiatives to
address the general problem of deferred maintenance common to many
developing countries. In many instances, the Bank has coordinated
bilateral/multilateral donors efforts aiming at the adoption and
implementation of a set of policies geared on sustainability and
maintenance of the network, in particular the above mentioned RMI under
the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program. The Bank has implemented
in various countries many successful projects centered on the
establishment of a Road Fund and on conservation of the network.
Therefore, it can draw from a pool of expertise on the subject, which is
widely recognized as the most authoritative and complete. Moreover, the
Bank's long-standing involvement in the highway sector in Lao PDR allows
for a better knowledge of the institutional and operational issues related
to road maintenance and consequently for a better judgment of the
feasibility of the proposed solutions.
4. Description
a) PRESERVATION OF THE ROAD NETWORK THROUGH CIVIL WORKS a.1) Periodic
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works    RMP will finance periodic
maintenance works (regravelling, resealing, thin asphalt overlay, bridge
repairs, road marking, road signs) and rehabilitation works (thick asphalt
overlay and pavement reconstruction) on various maintainable sections of
the NRN and LRN. Under RMP-1, periodic maintenance works will be
undertaken on about 1000 km of the NRN countrywide and on about 300 km of
the LRN in the four selected Provinces (Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang,
Savannakhet and Champassack). Under RMP-2, periodic and rehabilitation
works will be financed on various sections of the NRN and LRN.
Quantitative targets and related costs for RMP-2 will be defined during
its preparation. a.2) Routine Maintenance Works.    RMP will finance
emergency (accident removal, landslide clearing) and routine maintenance
works (vegetation control, clearing drainage, potholes patching, edge
- 4 -



repairs) on the maintainable sections of the NRN and LRN. Since these
expenditures are recurrent in nature, GoL will finance this component
entirely through both the road maintenance fund and the consolidated
budget. Under RMP-I, routine maintenance works will be carried out on the
maintainable portions of the NRN (4,600 km) countrywide and on
maintainable portions of the LRN (2,500 km) in the four selected provinces
will be carried out. Under RMP-2, routine maintenance works will be
carried out on the maintainable sections of the NRN and of the LRN in all
provinces. Quantitative targets and related costs for RMP-2 will be
defined during its preparation.a.3) Control Heavy Vehicle Axle Load . RMP
will support the implementation of a strategy to reduce overloading on the
road network. Under RMP-1, 6 permanent axle load weight stations including
electronic scales will be constructed along strategic point on the NRN; 6
laybys will be constructed along strategic points of the NRN where trucks
would be weighted by mobile scales, permanent and mobile weight-scales
will be provided, and training and vehicles will be provided to the
axle-load control patrols. Technical assistance will also be provided in
order to: (i) create a partnership between the transport industry and the
government; (ii) proposed the issuance/amendment of related regulations
to set up new axle load limits, encourage the replacement of single-axle
by multi-axle trucks over time, and increased fines for overloading. An
analysis of the effectiveness of the strategy would be carried out towards
the end of RMP-1. Recommendations, if any, to improve effectiveness of
the strategy will be implemented under RMP-2. b) BUILDING INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY b.1) Complete Establishment of Road Management System.. RMP will
complete the development and establishment of an integrated road
management system (RMS), which would cover all aspects of the road
planning process for the NRN and LRN. Under RMP-1, consultancy services
would be provided to the Road Administration Division of MCTPC Department
of Roads and the four selected provincial DCTPCs to make the RMS fully
operational for the NRN and to develop and test the RMS for the LRN.
Under RMP-2, the capacity to use the RMS for the NRN and LRN will be
developed in all remaining DCTPCs.    b.2) Assist Implementation of Road
Maintenance Fund. RMP will help establish a sustainable financing
mechanism for the maintenance of the NRN and LRN. Under RMP-1, consultant
services will be provided to assist the efficient operation of the Road
Maintenance Fund and the Road Maintenance Advisory Board and its
Secretariat. Additional assistance will be provided under RMP-2 if during
its appraisal it is deemed necessary. b.3) Improve Project Monitoring.
RMP will help develop institutional capacity to manage projects. Under
RMP-1, consultant services will be provided to the Project Monitoring and
Disbursement Divisions of the MCTPC-Department of Roads and the DCTPCs of
the four selected provinces to assist and develop internal capacity in
managing technical and financial aspects of the projects. Under RMP-2,
similar assistance will be provided to all other DCPTCs.      b.4) Develop
Strategy to Improve Performance of Local Contracting and Consulting
Industry. RMP will support the development of the local contracting and
consulting industry. Under RMP-1, a strategy will first be defined and
implemented jointly by MCTPC, the Road Maintenance Advisory Board and the
local contracting and consulting industry. If needed, its implementation
will also be supported under RMP-2. b.5) Involve Road Users-Beneficaries
in Road Maintenance Activities. RMP will foster the involvement of the
road users and beneficiaries in the delivery and management of road
maintenance activities. Under RMP-1, consultant services will be provided
to help establish a road users associations and establish and implement a
- 5 -



strategy to involve villages of the four selected Provinces in the
maintenance of their roads. Among other initiatives, the development of
small-scale community contractors will also be pursued. Similar
initiatives will be supported under RMP-2.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       11
IBRD
IDA                              25
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND          3.2
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (SIDA)        0.8
Total Project Cost               40
6. Implementation
Implementation ArrangementsThe program will involve the following
organizations:MCTPC - The MCTPC will implement the Program. It will be
achieved in a manner to maximize capacity-building through the use of
existing internal resources and administrative structures. No special
unit will be created to manage the project. The Department of Roads
(DOR), the Department of Transport (DOT), and all its provincial
departments (DCTPCs) will be involved. DOR- PMD. In order to improve
donor coordination and projects effectiveness, MCTPC recently created the
Project Monitoring Division (PMD) to monitor the implementation of all
foreign-assisted projects. Therefore, this is unit will have the overall
project monitoring function for the project. It will be the first contact
point and will be responsible to report on project activities.
DOR-RAD-PTD. The Road Administration Division (RAD) and Planning and
Technical Division (PTD) will: (i) deal with policy issues affecting the
maintenance of the whole road network; (ii) program and plan maintenance
works of the NRN including road conditions and traffic surveys; (iii) link
with the construction association in order to prepare and implement a
long-term development strategy; and (iv) provide technical guidance to the
DCTPC and districts for the planning and day-to-day management of
maintenance works on the NRN and LRN. DOR-DD. The Disbursement Division
(DD) will be responsible for the administrative and financial management
of the project activities. DOT and Police - The DOT and the police will be
responsible for the implementation of the Heavy Vehicle Axle Load Control
Program of the project. Consultancy services including training will be
provided to the DOT. DCTPCs and Districts - The DCTPCs and its districts
will: (i) program and plan the maintenance works on the LRN in the
selected provinces; (ii) procure and supervise the maintenance programs on
the NRN and LRN in selected provinces; (iii) report to DOR-RAD-PMD on the
financial status of the project activities that they will implement; and
(iv) provide technical assistance to local communities involved in the
planning and delivery of maintenance programs on the LRN. Consultancy
services including training will be provided to the DCTPCs, districts and
local communities. RMAB and Secretariat -The RMF will be managed by a
Board and Secretariat which initially will report to the MCTPC Minister.
The Secretariat will be managed by a small team composed of a Secretary,
an Audit-Review Manager, a Finance Manager and an Assistant Accountant.
These staff will be hired locally. For a limited period they will be
assisted and trained by a highly experienced consultant.
- 6 -



7. Sustainability
RMP is based on policies and initiatives that aim to ensure the long-term
sustainability of the NRN and LRN. Long-term sustainability is based on
the preservation of an affordable road network. To this aim, RMP will
support the following policies and initiatives: a) Promoting full
participation of main stakeholders in project design, implementation and
operations to ensure ownership;b) Improving MCPTC/DCPTC practices and
restructuring these agencies according to their responsibilities; d)
Promoting road maintenance activities that are economically, financially
and environmentally viable; e) Enforcing adequate regulations on road
transport operations;f) Promoting road users' participation and in the
managing and financing arrangements;g) Improving the efficiency of the
local construction and consulting industry. In particular, we underline
that RMP will support the efficient operation of a Road Maintenance Fund
which will revenues will eventually cover the full cost of preserving the
road network. Another element of sustainability promoted under this
project concern the design of the Road Management System which will
completed based on existing sub-system and remain as simple as possible.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lao Experience To date, IDA has funded four transport projects in Lao PDR,
all in the highway subsector: (i) the Southern Transport Project, closed
in 1994; (ii) the first Highway Improvement Project, closed in 1998; (iii)
the ongoing Second Highway Improvement Project (completed); and (iv) the
ongoing Third Highway Improvement Project. Overall, these projects have
been successful in developing capacity to deliver maintenance services for
the NRN. The project contributed to the commercialization of all MCTPC
construction and maintenance force account units (SOEs) and the
utilization of competition to procure works. The second major achievement
consists of the establishment of a maintenance and a planning procedures
within the MCTPC. Assisted by external specialists, these divisions now
have the capacity to produce investment and maintenance plans for the
NRN. As a result, in recent years, the MCTPC succeeded in obtaining
specific budget allocations for routine and periodic maintenance from MOF,
a first in almost three decades.    Budgetary Allocations.    However, the
performance of the overall portfolio has confirmed that obtaining adequate
and timely budget allocations for counterpart funds remains difficult.
This is partially explained by the fact that the country was, and still
is, severely affected by the regional financial crisis that started in
1997. Nevertheless, the lack of counterpart funds has been particularly
true for routine and periodic road maintenance funds that have been
constantly well short of the needed amount. This lesson has been reflected
in project design by working together with GoL on the policy shift towards
conservation and not expansion of the network. Local Industry. The
capacity of the local contracting industry is still embryonic despite the
fact that all the projects mentioned above supported to a certain extent
the creation of a local contracting capacity for road construction and
maintenance. The contractors still lack managerial expertise and financial
resources. The same applies to the very few local consulting firms.
However, the industry in the past was never consulted on their problems
and needs. With the creation of a Construction Association, RMP will
establish a shared long-term development strategy and support its
implementation. Political Context. One important lesson learned from
other IDA-financed projects in Lao PDR is the important role played by the
provincial authorities (e.g.: Governors) in the management of the
- 7-



provincial branches of central agencies. While the DCTPCs are official
branches of the central MCTPC, they work under the normal day-to-day
guidance of the Governor's office. As a matter of fact, the DCTPC
director is nominated by MCTPC minister after full consultation with the
Governor. In addition, the role of the provinces has increased in recent
years due to the decentralization/devolution policy promoted by the
Government. This implies that the implementation of a common strategy and
systems for the maintenance of the NRN and LRN under RMP will require
substantial consultations and knowledge sharing. International
ExperienceSome historical lessons have been drawn from the experience of
the donors' community assisting the rehabilitation of the road networks in
many developing countries. Experience shows that projects often based on
poorly conceived policies that do not link appropriately road networks
expansion to economic and social demand resulted in many road networks
expanded well beyond the size and standard the country can afford to
maintain. Moreover, because of inadequate understanding of the importance
of maintenance, insufficient budget was allocated to these activities. As
a result, maintenance of large road networks become an overwhelming
problem in many developing countries. Deferred maintenance led to
destruction of road pavements and to escalating transport costs. For
example, in the Sub Saharan African road network, non-maintained roads
resulted in the loss of one third of the capital invested. Diversion of
resources for maintenance into construction of new roads resulted in the
loss of three to four kilometers of existing road for every kilometer
built and the extra costs imposed on road users, largely through increased
vehicle operating costs, was up to three times the savings on maintenance.
The magnitude of the road maintenance problem led to the Road Maintenance
Initiative (RMI) under the Sub Saharan African Transport Policy Program
(SSATP). With multi-donor support the RMI aims to establish sustainable
road maintenance policies throughout the continent. The results show that
poor maintenance systems from a wider range of financing and management
issues and that governments need to stop the process leading to the
gradual erosion of the network and take action to create sustainable
mechanisms for maintenance. The development of the road network in Lao PDR
follows a pattern very similar to those experienced by many other
countries. The RMP takes into account these global lessons by shifting
the focus to maintenance in order to save the investments of the 90's and
promoting the same policies for road sustainability advocated by the RMI.
Moreover, lessons from the RMI and results achieved around the world show
that the following conditions are required to achieve effective and
efficient maintenance of roads by the private sector: (i) provision of an
adequate and stable flow of funds which facilitate provision of a
predictable workload and timely payment; (ii) adaptable bidding
procedures and simple bidding documents to suit the nature of works; (iii)
accountability and transparency of the bidding process; (iv) application
of incentives and sanctions as applicable; (v) continuous monitoring and
evaluation; and (vii) political and economic stability creating a climate
of confidence. Undoubtedly, the provision of an adequate and stable flow
of funds is critical for successful contract maintenance. Hence, securing
reliable funding is at the heart of any reform process. Without this,
other issues affecting contract maintenance will have limited or no impact
(Heggie and Vickers, 1998). To create this reliable source of funds, many
countries have recently opted for the establishment of a road fund. The
called second-generation road fund have been the most successful. They are
based on the following principles:    (i) dedicated to maintenance; (ii)
- 8 -



funded by additional road users charges over general taxes and duties;
(iii) managed by a board with road users representation; and (iv) subject
to strict auditing requirements. These principles have guided the
establishment of the RMF supported under RMP.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     NA
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Environmental Aspects. The main issues associated
with this project are the temporary construction related impacts of
erosion control, dust and noise control, handling and disposal of
hazardous construction materials, solid waste disposal. Given the program
approach adopted for this project, specific road sections to be maintained
have not yet been identified. Therefore, no stand alone EIA has been
prepared for this project. The preparation team reviewed Environmental
Guidelines for Road Construction and Maintenance Projects enacted by Prime
Minister Decree 50/PM of 04/01/95. It has been agreed that: (i) the
Guidelines will be made available to the public for review and comments;
and (ii) that the mitigation measures outlined in the guidelines will be
included in construction contracts and monitored throughout the project.
Regarding the monitoring, MCTPC indicated that specialized services would
be provided to its DOR-PTD Environmental and Social Unit under the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) financed Rural Access Road Project. One of the main
goals of this technical assistance is to ensure the proper monitoring of
mitigation measures under road construction and maintenance contracts.
Social Aspects. Given the type of activities to be carried out, the
project is not expected to cause land acquisition, resettlement or other
negative social impacts. However, the use of areas along the roads as
deposits and road maintenance operations may result in unexpected
low-level and temporary impacts on parcels of land/buildings or may cause
crops or income losses to settlers along the roads. In order to assure
that unforeseen project impacts are compensated in accordance to World
Bank resettlement policies, "Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines"
have been prepared. The Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines define a
resettlement policy framework for the project and specify the
implementation procedures to be followed in order to ensure, if necessary,
compliance with OD 4.30. The project will not cause impacts with specific
significance to Indigenous People.
11. Contact Point:
Task Team Leader
Denis Robitaille
Senior Highway Engineer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-7130
Fax:   (202) 522-3573
Email: drobitaille@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
9



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
- 10 -



