RP-57
LAOS
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Resettlement and compensation guidelines
(July 2000)


﻿INTRODUCTION
The project is not expected to cause land acquisition nor the relocation of people,
buildings or other fixed assets. Minor infrastructure or the use of areas along the roads as
deposits may, however, result in unexpected low-level impacts/damages to parcels of
land or buildings. In addition, road maintenance activities may require the temporary
occupation of plots or may cause crops or income losses to settlers along the roads.
These Resettlement Guidelines have been prepared in order to assure that unforeseen
project impacts will be compensated in accordance to World bank OD 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement. The Guidelines text will be translated in Lao and distributed as
an Operations Manual to the local agencies which will be responsible for the maintenance
of the road. The following text is divided into two main sections: i) Policy framework; ii.)
Implementation guidelines.
2     GENERAL POLICY FRAMEWORK
Compensation issues linked to the RMP will be regulated by a general policy framework
providing principles and instructions to rehabilitate persons, families, organizations
negatively affected by the project. The main objective of this policy framework is to
ensure that regardless of tenure status, the Project Affected Persons (PAP) will be
assisted so as to improve, or at least restore their living standards, incomes, earnings
and/or production capacity to pre-project levels.
The policy framework is based on the following WB Guidelines and GOL Policies:
a) The Constitution of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (August 14, 1991)
b) The land law (March 31,1997)
c) Road Law.
d) WB-OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
This policy framework does not contradict any clause of the national law and decrees.
Where the law does not clearly determine a compensation policy the project will assume
responsibility with respect to the PAP.
2.1   DEFINITION OF TERMS
Project Affected Person (PAP) indicates any juridical person being as it may an
individual, a household, a firm or a private or public who, on account of the
execution of the Project, or any of its components or sub-projects or parts thereof
would have their:
(i) right, title or interest in any house, land (including residential,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or moveable asset
acquired or possessed, in full or in part, permanently or temporarily; or
2


﻿(ii) business, occupation, work, place of residence or habitat adversely
affected; or
(iii) standard of living adversely affected.
Land Acquisition means the process whereby a person is compelled by a public
agency to alienate all or part of the land s/he owns or possesses, to the ownership
and possession of that agency, for public purpose in return for fair compensation.
Replacement Cost means the value determined to be fair compensation for
agricultural land based on its productive potential, the replacement cost of houses
and structures (current fair market price of building materials and labor without
depreciation or deductions for salvaged building material), and the market value
of residential land, crops, trees and other commodities.
Resettlement means all measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse impact of
the Project on PAP's property and/or livelihoods, including compensation and
rehabilitation, and (if relevant) relocation.
Relocation means the physical relocation of a PAP from her/his pre-Project place
of residence.
Rehabilitation means compensatory measures provided under the Policy
Framework other than payment of the replacement cost of acquired assets.
Compensation means payment in cash or in kind to replace losses of land,
housing, income and other assets caused by a project.
2.2    RESETTLEMENT/REHABILITATION PRINCIPLES
The main principles of the policy are:
1. Impacts on land, buildings, incomes and other assets shall be avoided or minimized as
much as possible.
2. When impacts cannot be avoided road maintenance operations shall be carried out in
such a way as to minimize disturbances and damages to the PAP.
3. All PAP are entitled to be compensated for their lost assets, incomes and businesses
at replacement cost and provided with rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist
them to improve or at least maintain their pre-project living standards and incomes.
Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not bar the affected persons from
entitlement to such compensation and rehabilitation measures.
4. Compensation for affected assets shall be provided at replacement rates and shall
guarantee the maintenance of the PAP's pre-project living standards;
5. Payment of compensation of affected assets must be completed prior to start-up of
civil works in a project. Eventual unforeseen impacts shall be compensated within 15
days from their occurrence.
6. The project will ensure effective and timely design, planning, consultation and
implementation of compensation and rehabilitation measures.
3


﻿7. All compensation-related costs shall be included in the cost of the project.
8. The compensation of Ethnic minorities and vulnerable PAPs will be carried out in
respect of their cultural values and specific needs.
2.3   ELIGIBILITY
Lack of legal rights will not affect the eligibility to compensation of a PAP. However,
only PAP who have Land Use Rights documented by: i.) Land use certificate; ii.) land
survey certificate; iii.) Land taxes receipt; iv.) Residency certificate; v.) Customary land
use right documented in writing or orally by local authorities; will receive full
compensation for the assets lost at replacement rates.
PAP without documented Land Use Rights or proof of residency will be eligible to a
rehabilitation allowance corresponding to 50% of the replacement value of the land
eventually lost.
All PAP regardless their legal status will be eligible to full compensation for crops and
income losses.
2.4   COMPENSATION AND REHABILITATION ENTITLEMENTS
The following principles will govern compensation and rehabilitation assistance (see
Tablel. Compensation Matrix).
2.4.1 Loss of Arable Land
Permanent or temporary arable land losses will be provided in cash at replacement cost.
2.4.2 Crops Compensation
Crop losses will be compensated in cash at market value.
2.4.3 House/buildings compensation
House/buildings losses or damages will be compensated in cash at replacements rates free
of demolition and reusable materials cost.
2.4.4 Business Rehabilitation
The loss of permanently affected business/incomes will be compensated in cash with a
lump sum of 300,000 Kip or with a variable sum corresponding to six months of income
to be determined on the basis tax declaration papers. Temporary business/income losses
will be compensated with an allowance of 15,000 Kip per day or with a variable daily
sum to be calculated on the basis of tax declaration papers.
2.4.5 Allowances
PAPs whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the Project, will receive: i.) full compensation
for their net loss of income; and ii.) an allowance corresponding tol0% of the replacement/market value of
the land temporarily affected by the project.
4


﻿Table 1. COMPENSATION MATRIX
Type of Loss               Application                  Entitled Person                                        Compensation
I  Permanent loss  Less than 20 % of landholding lost,  Land Use Right holder     Cash compensation for lost land at replacement cost or market value
of arable land  remaining land economically viable
Without Land Use rights   No compensation. Rehabilitation allowance corresponding to 50% of the replacement/market
value of land lost
2  Temporary loss                                      Land Use Right holder      A minimum cash compensation equivalent to 10% value of the affected asset.
of Arable land
Without Land Use rights    No compensation. Rehabilitation allowance corresponding to 50% of the replacement/market
value of land lost
2  Residential     Less than 20 % of landholding lost,  Land Use Right holder     Compensation for lost land in cash at replacement cost or market value.
.  land            remaining land viable for present use
Without Land Use rights    No compensation. Rehabilitation allowance corresponding to 50% of the replacement/market
value of land lost.
Temporary acquisition               Land Use Right holder      Cash compensation equivalent to 10% of the replacement/market value of the affected assets.
Without Land Use rights    No compensation.
3  Commercial      Business premises partially affected,  Business owner          Compensation in cash at market value.
. land
Without Land Use rights    No compensation..
4  Structures      Structure partially affected/ remaining  Owner                 Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure and other fixed assets, and
structure viable for continued use.                            assistance in restoration of the remaining structure.
Tenant                     Cash compensation equivalent to one month's salary or six months' rental allowance.
Assistance in alternate rental accommodation.
Without Land Use rights   Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure and other fixed assets, and
assistance in restoration of the remaining structure.
6  Standing crops  Crops affected by                   Title holder               Compensation in cash at market value.
.    _    _     permanent/temporary land acquisition
If lnd s rnted teant Compensation in cash at market value.
Withut Lnd Ue rihts Compensation in cash at market value.
7  Trees           Trees lost                          Tree harvester , whether   Compensation in cash calculated on the basis of type, age and productive value of affected
with or without Land Use  trees.
Rights or a tenant.
8  Business/ other  Permanent losses                   Businessman, whether       300,000 KIP or compensation in cash calculated on the basis of tax declaration x six months.
income losses                                       owner of affected premises,
renter or squatter
Temporary losses                    Businessman, whether       15,000 KIP per day or compensation in cash calculated on the basis of tax declaration for the
owner of affected premises,  duration of the impact.
renter or squatter
5


﻿4     IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
4.1    PUBLIC INFORMATION, CONSULTATION, AND PARTICIPATION
Following the definition of the maintenance plan for each road targeted by the project the
Implementing agency will ensure that all districts and villages are properly and timely
informed of the road maintenance activities to be carried out. Information to be provided
will include type of work to be implemented, potential impacts, and schedules.
The implementing agency will also ensure that the provisions of these Guidelines are
effectively disclosed to the population living along the roads targeted by the maintenance
plan. This will be done by means of a public information campaign to be implemented by
means of posters detailing in Lao language the content of the policy framework described
in the previous sections. Posters will be hung in public spaces in the district towns and in
each village along the roads to be maintained.
Finally, all affected communities will be consulted by means of ad hoc meetings. During
these meetings the direct stakeholders will be consulted regarding their priorities and
needs in matters of road maintenance, and will be asked to comment and offer
suggestions both on the compensation policy and on how they may be involved in the
maintenance of their roads.
4.2   COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES
Complaints and Grievances at the local administration level will be dealt by an
independent committee including:
- A representative of the local authority;
- A representative of the local mass organizations
- A recognized member of the local communities:
Complaint and Grievances issues will be addressed according to the following appeals
process:
Level 1      PAP addresses complaints and grievances to the independent
committee.
Level 2      If the Independent committee cannot address the PAP's concerns
to their satisfaction the complaint will have to be raised within 2
weeks to the commune level.
Level 3      If no decision satisfactory to the PAPs has been reached at the
commune level within 2 weeks after the receipt of the complaint,
the complaint should be raised at the local preliminary court.
PAPs will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to the
grievance redress procedures. The project will not have a representative on the committee
but will have the duty to cooperate on a transparent basis with the committee and provide
all information required by this latter.
6


