                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 32642-LA


                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-34810 TF-25724)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.2 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                         FOR A

                              ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                      June 30, 2005




Transport Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                    Currency Unit = Kip
                        Kip 10,344 = US$ 1
                     US$ 0.00009 = Kip 1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                    October 1 -    September 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
AADT      Average Annual Daily Traffic
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
AWP       Annual Work Program
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CRM       Community Road Model
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DCTPC     Departments of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
DOR       Department of Roads
DOR-PMD   Department of Roads - Project Monitoring Division
DOR-PTD   Department of Roads - Planning and Technical Division
DOR-RAD   Department of Roads - Road Administration Division
DOT       Department of Transport
DOT-TCD   Department of Transport ­ Transport Control Division
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FMS       Financial Management System
GIS       Geographic Information Systems
GOL       Government of Lao PDR
HDM­4     Highway Development and Management Model (Version 4)
HTMP      Heavy Transport Management Program
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ILO       International Labour Organization
IRAP      Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning
IRI       International Roughness Index
LBES      Labor-Based-Equipment-Supported
LRN       Local Road Network
LSRSP-2   Second Lao-Swedish Road Sector Project
MCTPC     Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
MES       Monitoring and Evaluation System
NDF       Nordic Development Fund
NRN       National Road Network
PHRD      Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Grant
PMS       Pavement Management System
PRoMMS    Provincial Road Maintenance Management System
PRTP      Participatory Rural Transport Planning
RMFAB     Road Maintenance Fund Advisory Board

RMF        Road Maintenance Fund
RMP        Road Maintenance Program
RMS        Road Management System
RSAP       Road Safety Action Plan
Sida       Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SRMP       Sustainable Rural Mobility and Participation
THIP       Third Highway Improvement Project
UN- IAPSO  United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
VMC        Village Maintenance Committees



                   Vice President:      Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                Country Director:       Mr. Ian C. Porter
                  Sector Director:      Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai
              Task Team Leader:         Mr. William D.O. Paterson

                           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
    6. Sustainability                                                                14
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
    9. Partner Comments                                                              18
    10. Additional Information                                                       29
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
IBRD Map No. 34124

Project ID: P064821                                                  Project Name: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: William D. O. Paterson                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-34810; TF-25724
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (97%); Central government administration
                            (3%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/24/2000                                     Effective: 07/12/2001                07/12/2001
     Appraisal: 10/03/2000                                         MTR: 04/01/2003                  04/04/2003
      Approval: 03/27/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Lao People's Democratic Republic/Ministry of Communication; Lao People's
                                           Democratic Republic/Transport; Lao People's Democratic Republic/Post and
                                           Construction
                      Other Partners:      Swedish International Development Cooperation Association (Sida); Nordic
                                           Development Fund (NDF)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Team Leader at ICR:             William D. O. Paterson                         Denis Robitaille
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Margarita Nunez;
                                Christopher J. De Serio


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context.     At the time of preparation of the Road Maintenance Program (RMP), the International
Development Association (IDA) had been supporting the highway sub-sector in Lao People's Democratic
Republic (PDR) to improve specific national road sections, to implement routine and periodic road
maintenance programs, and to strengthen the overall institutional capacity to manage the road sector.
Despite the investments of the 1990's, the road network in Lao PDR remained under-developed and the
existing roads in poor condition. Only about 38 percent of the national road network was considered in
good or fair condition, and most of the provincial and district road network were impassable during the
rainy season. Moreover, many of the roads rehabilitated or reconstructed previously were deteriorating at a
faster rate than expected. Therefore, the sector focus was then shifted to the preservation of roads with
priority for preserving the national roads rehabilitated in the past decade. To facilitate this aim, the
Government's strategic policy choice was to establish a modern road management system which would
assist in mobilizing adequate resources and ensure that funds were used effectively for maintenance. IDA
support for such a major shift in focus, arising from the Government's "Strategic Directions for
Development of the Road Sector" of June 2000, sought to utilize the flexibility of an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL), assuring a longer-term partnership in the sustainable management of road assets.

As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the objective of the Road Maintenance Project
(SDR 19.2 million) was to develop and implement financing and management systems for the sustainable
maintenance of the National Road Network (NRN) countrywide, and to design and test, in four selected
provinces (Champassak, Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, and Savannakhet), financing and management
systems for the sustainable maintenance of the Local Road Network (LRN).

The project's immediate objectives are: (i) mobilize and efficiently allocate additional financial resources
for road maintenance; (ii) strengthen capacity of institutions dealing with road maintenance activities at
central, provincial and local levels; and (iii) reduce overloading of vehicles.

The overall strategy of the Government of Lao PDR was to reduce poverty and develop its infrastructure
and human resource capacity. The RMP was consistent with the Government's strategy and with the
World Bank's 2000-2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives in the transport sector. The
project objectives were clear and realistic, reflecting the identified priorities for strengthening management
capacity and establishing sound sectoral financing and management policies for maintaining the national
and local transport network. Through the coordinated support of IDA, the Nordic Development Fund
(NDF) and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), the RMP provided an
adaptable framework for enabling the government's objective of a sustainable maintenance system.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original development objectives of the project did not change during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
There were two primary project components: preservation of the road network, and institutional capacity
building.

Part A: Preservation of the Road Network Through Civil Works. (US$24.31 million) This component
consisted of the following three sub-components.




                                                       - 2 -

A.1 Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works, which financed:
    (i) Annual Work Programs covering 1,100 km of the NRN and 300 km on the LRN.
    (ii) Technical assistance to relevant agencies for preparation, design, supervision and monitoring of the
          related works.
    (iii) Provision of goods (including vehicles), office equipment and road condition survey equipment; and
    (iv) Construction of 38 small district offices in the four selected provinces.

A.2 Routine Maintenance and Emergency Work, which financed:
    (i) Emergency and routine maintenance works on 5,800 kms of the maintainable sections of the NRN
          and LRN; and
    (ii) Technical assistance for preparation, design, supervision and monitoring of the related works.

A.3 Heavy Transport Management Program, which supported the development and implementation of a
national strategy to reduce overloading on the road network, through:
    (i) Construction of seven (7) permanent axle load weight stations and 17 laybys along strategic points
          on the NRN;
    (ii) Procurement of permanent and mobile weigh-scales, vehicles and related training to be provided to
          the axle-load control patrols; and
    (iii) Training and technical assistance to: strengthen project implementation capacity; facilitate a
          partnership between the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC)
          and the transport industry; develop and implement related regulations and policy reforms.

Part B: Strengthening Institutional Capacity. (US$0.69 million) This component consisted of the
following five sub-components:

B.1 Establishment of Road Management System to cover all aspects of the road planning process for the
NRN and LRN. The sub-component financed technical assistance and training to:
    (i) Establish a fully operational Road Management System (RMS) for the NRN;
    (ii) Develop and pilot the RMS for the LRN;
    (iii) Initiate a framework for the development of a national Rural Transport Policy; and
    (iv) Conduct road condition surveys.

B.2 Implementation of the Road Maintenance Fund. The subcomponent established a sustainable
financing mechanism for the maintenance of the NRN and LRN, including consultant services to assist the
efficient operation of the Road Maintenance Fund and the Road Maintenance Fund Advisory Board
(RMFAB) and its Secretariat.

B.3 Improve Project Preparation, Execution and Monitoring. Designed to develop institutional capacity
for project management, the subcomponent financed technical assistance and training to:
    (i) Institutional capacity development;
    (ii) Manage financial aspects of project management;
    (iii) Develop internal capacity in carrying out technical and financial audits of project activities;
    (iv) Support the newly established Information, Archive and Conference Center; and
    (v) Specific capacity building activities, including fellowships, English language training, study tours,
          workshops, and seminars.

B.4 Develop Strategy to Improve Performance of Local Contracting and Consulting Industry. The
subcomponent supported facilitation of a strategy for developing the local contracting and consulting
industry.


                                                      - 3 -

B.5 Involve Road Users-Beneficiaries in Road Maintenance Activities To foster the involvement of the
road users and beneficiaries in the delivery and management of road maintenance activities, this
subcomponent aimed to:
    (i) Provide technical assistance for establishing associations to represent road users; and
    (ii) Establish and implement a strategy to involve villages in the maintenance of the LRN and
         small-scale community contractors.

The project components were well designed and linked to the project's objectives.        This was the fourth
IDA-funded highway project in Lao PDR, which was built on the foundations of GoL's strategic intentions
of placing greater emphasis on systematic maintenance of the maintainable road network and of
progressively introducing competitive bidding of maintenance works contracts. The project's components
properly address the key issues related to the civil works focus on preservation of the road assets;
institutional and financial capacity; and fiduciary and management frameworks critical to a successful
outcome and project sustainability.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Development Credit Agreement was amended on January 3, 2003, to permit IDA financing of goods
under Component A.3 Heavy Transport Management Program (HTMP). Permanent and mobile weigh
scales were to be financed under the NDF Credit; however, the NDF guidelines restricted eligibility of
suppliers to Nordic countries. Hence the procurement of the weigh scales resulted in inadequate
competition and lack of choice. The minor revision to the sub-component allowed for procurement of
equipment using International Competitive Bidding procedures, for an estimated total cost of $0.5 million.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group did not review the project at appraisal. The Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) rates quality at entry as highly satisfactory. The assessment is based upon
Government's ambitious commitment and resultant actions toward mainstreaming its strategy for
maintaining and preserving road assets. With an overall risk rating of modest, the project accurately
assessed the appropriate risk mitigation measures identified during project appraisal, thus reinforcing a well
designed project. Though no social or environmental impacts were identified during appraisal, the
Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines and Environmental Guidelines which applied to the project
were deemed appropriate and acceptable to IDA. The following factors contributed significantly to project
readiness for implementation:

         a. The project objectives were consistent with the Government's priorities in the transport sector,
             with the CAS, and with previous IDA interventions within the sector;
         b. The Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and the Minister of MCTPC endorsed a
             Letter of Development Program in January 2001;
         c. Prime Ministerial Decrees establishing a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF), Road Maintenance
             Fund Advisory Board (RMFAB) and Fuel Levy;
         d. The MCTPC Minister signed Memoranda of Agreement between MCTPC and the governors
             of the four selected Provinces in December 2000 to ensure project implementation complied
             with the Bank's procurement procedures;
         e. A Memorandum of Understanding between IDA and Sida provided a framework for ongoing
             coordination and interlinking donor support;
          f. Funding from the previous Third Highway Improvement Project (THIP), Sida, and a Japanese
             PHRD Grant (TF25724), facilitated the following preparation activities:
                  i. The design of the RMF;



                                                    - 4 -

                  ii. An axle load control study to enable adequate design of the Heavy Transport
                      Management Program (HTMP);
                 iii. Project Implementation Plan preparation, baseline data collection of road referencing
                      and condition surveys to populate the proposed road database;
                 iv. The design of an acceptable Financial Management System; and
                  v. Preparation of the first of three Annual Work Programs (AWP).
         g. MCTPC satisfactorily complied with the Bank's safeguard policies throughout preparation;
         h. The THIP provided pilot experience in the competitive bidding for periodic maintenance; and
          i. The APL approach properly acknowledged the need to provide long-term assistance while
             enabling an element of flexibility through a staged-implementation with intermediate
             objectives.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Road Maintenance Project has been highly satisfactory in developing and implementing a sustainable
revenue collection mechanism that ensures adequate financing to maintain the national road network. Lao
PDR's newly established road maintenance fund, one of only a few such funds operating in the region,
represents an exemplary model in both its institutional framework and the benefits which can be derived
from proper management of resources. The project developed a Road Management System for the entire
national road network; introduced institutional changes for identifying and prioritizing maintenance
activities; which was focused on periodic and routine maintenance, as well as on capacity building
initiatives to effectively manage and implement these activities; and reduced heavy vehicle overloading
through an expanded axle-load control program.

The design and piloting of financing and management systems for the sustainable maintenance of the local
road network in the provinces of Champassack, Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang and Savannakhet was
partially completed.     While the RMS is used for the overall road network management, the Provincial
Road Maintenance Management System (PRoMMS) was tested in the pilot provinces but is still in the
process of development. In addition, the Participatory Rural Transport Planning (PRTP), which is the Lao
version of the Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning (IRAP) road prioritization procedure of the
International Labour Organization (ILO), and the Community Road Models (CRM) are still under
development for its use in the LRN.

The specific objectives of the first Phase of the APL are discussed below (and detailed performance
indicators are provided in Annex 1):

Additional financial resources for road maintenance mobilized. Achievement is rated satisfactory. The
project effectively established a cost recovery policy based on the users pay principle. GOL, through
MCTPC, instituted a road fund dedicated to maintenance, financed by road users' charges, managed by an
advisory board with road users' representation, and subject to strict auditing requirements.

In April 2001, the RMF and RMFAB, along with a corresponding financing mechanism derived from a
fuel levy, became operative. In February 2002 the revenues were transferred into the RMF and in GOL
FY2002/03 the RMF became operational, carrying out the first extended program. The initial fuel levy was
a moderate LAK 40 per litre and rose once to LAK 60 per litre, effective 1 October 2003. The original
performance indicator included an increase of the fuel levy by 50 percent per year, however only one 50
percent increase was authorized and was attributable to the country's general economic circumstances at
the time of the first annual increase. While the fuel levy was increased at a slower rate than originally



                                                      - 5 -

planned, the revenues from road tolls and fines exceeded the original plan, and enabled the annual revenues
to increase to LAK 36.9 billion in FY2003/2004, which was equal to the total expenditures on maintenance
at the beginning of the project. Following with a second increase to LAK 100 per litre in January 2005, the
Government has renewed its commitment to annual increases in the levy to LAK 200 per litre by 1 October
2006, and achieving near full cost recovery of maintenance needs by the end of the second phase of the
program.

The RMF represents a steady and adequate, long-term domestic funding source based on the substantial
cost recovery from road users. In FY2003/2004, domestic revenues comprised US$4.2 million equivalent
out of US$8.7 million total expenditures on road preservation, thus meeting 30 percent of road needs
(estimated at US$14.0 million). This compares well with the project target of 35 percent. The RMF
provided 86 percent of domestic revenues (US$3.5 million). The RMF is now funding all NRN routine
maintenance activities, including required substantial periodic maintenance of the NRN counterpart
funding, and 10 percent of the program on maintenance needs for the LRN. Additionally, the financial and
institutional frameworks are in place to support the expansion of the maintenance levels. The RMF is
growing steadily, however effort is now required to establish and achieve a sustainable level and to further
develop its support for the LRN.

Capacity of central, provincial and local level institutions strengthened. Achievement is rated
satisfactory. Initiatives to strengthen the capacity of the institutions responsible for road maintenance at the
national, provincial and local levels were undertaken to improve effectiveness in planning, budgeting,
monitoring and executing of the necessary activities in a decentralized framework. However, there were
some missed opportunities for on-the-job training through the technical assistance which MCTPC was
reluctant to incorporate. Some of the envisaged technical assistance activities were not thoroughly pursued
and marginally impacted the program's outcomes. Capacity enhancement activities included technical
assistance, workshops, seminars, fellowships, English language training, and study tours. See details in
Section 4.2 below. Regional workshops covering project supervision, procurement standards, financial
management, and English-language training enabled participants from the center and the provinces to gain
experience in preparation for an expanded, national road maintenance agenda.

Overloading of Vehicles Reduced. Achievement is rated highly satisfactory. An axle load control
program, to reduce overloading in heavy vehicles and to reevaluate the current regulations on licensing fees
and overloading fines, was implemented through the development of a national strategy. A Heavy
Transport Management Program (HTMP) to inspect and detect overloading of heavy vehicles has had a
substantial impact, both in terms of reducing the share and amount of vehicles that are overloaded and
generating income from fines. In March 2002, the Department of Transport (DOT) revised the regulation
on Maximum Permissible Gross weight of trucks from 8.2 tonnes per axle load to 9.1 tonnes per axle load.
DOT reports that the share of vehicles overloaded has fallen from 91 percent to 28 percent and the share of
heavily overloaded vehicles has also declined from 24 percent to 1 percent of those vehicles weighed,
indicating a remarkable decline in the extent of overloading at the weigh stations. With the expansion of
the program introduced at the end of RMP1, the effectiveness and sustainability of the HTMP will be
reviewed and strengthened.




                                                      - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
COMPONENT A: PRESERVATION OF THE ROAD NETWORK

Component A.1: Periodic Maintenance. (US$29.31 million, [appraisal]; US$32.08 million,
[completion]). This component is rated satisfactory.

As of October 2004, actual works completed were 1,938 km of periodic maintenance on NRN (including
four bridges and road signage) compared to 1,100 km estimated at appraisal. For the LRN, the project
completed 855 km of periodic maintenance, compared to 300 km at appraisal. A total of 55 contracts for
periodic maintenance of the NRN for US$22.5 million, and 43 contracts on the LRN amounting to
US$3.89 million, were completed. The nearly doubling of the periodic maintenance works on NRN and the
almost tripling increase in the periodic maintenance works on LRN is indicative of the commitment and
capacity of the implementing agency, MCTPC.

The road sections under periodic maintenance were resealed on the existing road surface with localized
rehabilitation of pavement and drainage on severely deteriorated sections. During implementation, the
technical audit after completion showed variably satisfactory quality of construction. The Department of
Roads (DOR) reported its concerns over the quality and quantity of works performed under the
maintenance program, citing inadequate capacity in contract administration, pre-qualification requirement,
acceptance of sub-standard quality, and weak supervision among the contractors and the provincial
DCTPCs. DOR recommended key actions such as training, closer monitoring of bid evaluation and
pre-qualification compliance, and stronger oversight by RAD and RMF technical manager. A
comprehensive training program, which included contract administration, financial management and
procurement, was implemented under the project and DOR proposed stricter oversight rules under RMP2.

Additional activities financed by IDA under this component include support to the local DCTPCs
responsible for project implementation through: the construction of 38 office buildings for approximately
US$0.42 million; the provision of 25 vehicles and 100 motorcycles for approximately US$0.16 million;
and office equipment and supplies amounting to approximately US$0.05 million.

NDF financed US$1.16 million towards civil works on the NRN under the third year Periodic Maintenance
Program, as well as US$0.87 million in technical assistance to RAD for contract preparation and
monitoring activities under the component. Sida actively contributed approximately US$3.03 million to the
program with support to detailed engineering and construction supervision services for the LRN.

Component A.2: Routine Maintenance.             (US$13.41 million, [appraisal]; US$5.72 million,
[completion]). This component is rated satisfactory.

The component carried out routine maintenance works (including vegetation control, drainage clearing,
pothole patching and edge repair) and emergency works (including accident removal and landslide
clearing); all funded entirely through the RMF. Against a three-year routine maintenance target on national
roads of 12,477 kms, some 19,343 kms were completed, exceeding the target by 55 percent and reaching
98 percent of the NRN in the final year. For local roads, of the planned maintenance on 2,750 km of the
four selected Provinces under RMP, 6,000 km were completed, exceeding the target by almost 46 percent.

During the 2002 and 2003 rainy seasons, many sections of road were damaged and only limited funding
was available under the GOL consolidated budget. The emergency maintenance needs were substantially



                                                  - 7 -

higher than the 15 percent provided in the project's planned routine maintenance. Along with additional
donor assistance from IDA, ADB and Sida, the RMF was able to contribute US$5.72 million to an
expanded maintenance program.

As 93 percent of the routine maintenance contracts were village-based, the program was highly effective in
generating income at the village-level. Other emergency works were done through local small contractors
under National Competitive Bidding procedures.

Component A.3: Heavy Transport Management Program (HTMP). (US$3.08 million, [appraisal];
US$2.96 million, [completion]). This component is rated satisfactory.

HTMP successfully introduced and supported various reforms to the institutional structures and legislative
policy necessary for implementation of a national axle load control strategy. The Transport Control
Division (TCD) of the DOT was responsible for implementation of the component. The construction of 24
weighing stations (of which 7 were permanent stations and 17 mobile stations) were completed and handed
over in June 2004. Twenty-one (21) scales were delivered and were fully operational by December 2004.
The RMF is currently collecting tolls at 28 locations in 16 provinces.

The provision of related technical assistance for capacity strengthening activities for implementation of the
overloading reduction strategy and training axle-load control patrols did not take place. Only one bid was
received that was found to be non-responsive, and selection was not pursued further. The program would
have benefited considerably if the envisaged technical assistance had been mobilized to support this
objective.
The project also provided vehicles and office equipment to DOT to facilitate implementation of the
component. The equipment included 13 Toyota pick-ups, 19 motorcycles and office items (a computer,
printer, photocopy and fax machine).

NDF contribution to this component was US$2.18 million for civil works related to the construction of the
permanent and layby weigh stations, as well as US$0.57 million for vehicles to assist with administering
the program. During implementation, DOT requested the weighing scales equipment be procured
internationally under the IDA credit in order to obtain more suitable technology and adequate competition
than eligibility requirements under the NDF Credit would have permitted (only two suppliers were eligible,
of which one was non-responsive in preliminary correspondence and the products of the other were
incompatible with parts of the specification and operational support requirements). The component was
modified during implementation to allow for IDA financing, and the procurement of vehicle weighing
equipment was fully successful.

The NDF credit also financed traffic safety equipment for the Government's traffic safety plan, which
includes the deployment of two vehicles and 41 motorcycles for traffic enforcing activities in Vientiane and
four provinces.    The Road Safety Action Plan (RSAP) is part of a series of priority actions being
implemented as part of the ASEAN initiative. A multidisciplinary partnership approach is followed to
encourage all actors to contribute to the reduction of road fatalities and injuries. The RSAP will be
launched and carried out with support from the RMP-2.




                                                    - 8 -

COMPONENT B: STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY

Component B.1: Establishment of Road Management System. (US$0.63 million, [appraisal]; US$1.11
million, [completion]). This component is rated satisfactory.

The key output, development of the Road Management System (RMS) integrates several modules
(pavement management system, routine maintenance management system, bridge management system, and
a monitoring and evaluation system) for analyzing a comprehensive collection of data on the national
network. After some delays in completion of the Pavement Management System, the RMS was
implemented in 2003 and became fully operational in June 2004.

To populate the RMS, a `Location Referencing Survey' was conducted in 2001. Initial data on inventory,
roughness and pavement conditions were collected and input into the RMS for planning and operational
use. This survey was updated in May 2004 for national and provincial roads and was extended to include
the funding of priority bridge interventions.      Information on traffic volume, bridge conditions, and
socio-economic data was collected. The introduction of the HDM-4 model during the latter stages of
project implementation prevented a comparative economic analysis of pre- and post-project impacts;
however, the RMS was an integral aspect in the Borrower's capacity to develop a 10-year Strategic
Expenditure Plan, another key project output. Although the HDM-4 model has been extensively used by
the Planning and Technical Division of DOR, consultants prepared the fourth maintenance program
(MP-4) and there is little in-house capability at DOR or by local experts for preparation of future work
programs. Though some need for additional development of local expertise and capacity for HDM-4
modeling exists, the RMS provides MCTPC with a strong analytical framework and supporting data for
preparing estimates of future investment needs and inventories of road, bridge and traffic conditions.

In terms of outstanding work, the Geographic Information System (GIS) for mapping all road data is
partially operational, and the links to the local roads PRoMMS and to the Monitoring and Evaluation
System need to be completed. RMS was piloted in one province, Vientiane Province. However, this
experience and the role of the PRoMMS, lead to a review of how to optimize road maintenance
programming capacity at the provincial level. As a result, the operation of the two systems will be
harmonized under RMP2, with focus on the capacity and roles of both central and provincial levels,
respectively.

For rural accessibility under the LRN, the PRoMMS was populated with data and applied in seven
provinces. The system was used on a trial basis to produce annual plans for routine maintenance works in
the maintainable provincial, district and rural roads. However, PRoMMS is not suitable to derive medium
or long-term programs and expenditure planning and its application in the Lao context is for provincial and
district roads only. For rural roads, a community participatory processes addressed under a separate
methodology based on PRTP, the CRM, is being integrated in the program for the LRN implementation
plan, based on community participation. Both these systems are in the process of development.

Component B.2: Assistance to Road Maintenance Fund (RMF).                  (US$0.54 million, [appraisal];
US$0.17 million, [ICR]). This component is rated marginally satisfactory.

The following activities were undertaken: The RMF and related Advisory Board and Secretariat were set
up and operational within a year of authorization; the Advisory Board held its first monthly meeting in
March 2001; the RMF collected the first revenues in February 2002; the RMF presented the FY2002/2003
Annual Report to the Advisory Board on January 2004 ­ this report was released in March 2004, together
with the accounts and the FY2003/2004 budget and business plan, with a copy to the local media. Also, the


                                                     - 9 -

Board and the Secretariat have had an active program of public dissemination as well as monitoring of field
issues.

The RMF advisor mobilized in February 2001, and assisted with the organization of the first monthly
meeting of the Advisory Board, staffing issues, revenue collection, establishment of the financial and
accounting procedures and other administrative issues. The advisor resigned due to poor health and no
action was taken to appoint a replacement for the remainder of the RMP1. The operation and performance
of the RMF Secretariat and Advisory Board could have been stronger with additional support, in
undertaking the institutional appraisal and training needs assessment and the capacity building of those
parts of MCTPC administering the RMF and those road administrations receiving money form the RMF.
Moreover, the program of public dissemination could be further strengthened with increased involvement of
road users. Twinning arrangements with similar road fund organizations did not take place. And the
development of a long-term strategy for strengthening performance of the local contracting and consulting
industry was not prepared, as reported under Component B.4.

The RMF initiation, development and operation progressed reasonably well over the project period. The
framework now exists to further institutionalize the principles endowed in the Advisory Board and
Secretariat's mandates which are to be supported under RMP2.

Component B.3: Strengthening preparation, execution and monitoring of projects (US$0.76 million,
[appraisal]; US$0.31 million, [completion]). This component is rated satisfactory.

MCTPC has played an active role in managing the road sector, including policy and decision making,
planning budgetary allocations, procurement, and program implementation.               RMP supported the
Government's decentralization plan and the overall capacity building consolidated this strategic choice.
The responsibilities for implementation and supervision of the construction and maintenance activities has
been gradually transferred to the DCTPCs supported by the District CTPCs. Separate accounts for all
expenditures under the project were established. The accounts were reviewed by independent auditors
annually and the financial management performance was satisfactory. However, it is evident that the
DCTPCs and District CTPCs require considerable assistance and strengthening to take on the new
responsibilities in the sector.

Technical audits were conducted every year during implementation. The audits indicate the RMP brought
maintenance activities to the forefront of the road sector and provided informed contributions to the RMP's
establishment of the long-term financing and management systems for the maintenance of the Lao road
network. They also highlighted the challenges facing the RMP: the overall quality of maintenance works
was in some cases below expected standards; and the low progress on capacity building, partly a result of
reluctance by DOR to engage consultants to provide technical assistance. The auditor made
recommendations to address the main issue of quality. The steps for improvement included actions at the
planning, bidding and implementation stages, and were endorsed by the MCTPC.

Under the project, the newly established Information, Archive and Conference Center was supported
through the provision of a central database catalogue and library repository, intranet access and equipment,
as well as related training of 56 staff.     Outfitted with departmental and project reports, magazines,
technical papers and more than one hundred textbooks (financed under the LSRSP2), the library and
cataloguing system is fully operational and updated with reports and relevant information. The center is
providing MCTPC with in-house training and intranet accessibility opportunities.




                                                    - 10 -

Four hundred thirty four (434) staff from both MCTPC (322 staff) and provincial authorities (112 staff)
completed an array of training and capacity enhancement activities. Nearly one-fourth of the training
activities were for technical skills development, including high-level coursework on road construction, road
safety, and routine maintenance programs. More than 60 percent of the activities were for intermediate and
pre-intermediate English language training. MCTPC staff conducted study visits to Australia, with
attention to traffic management, as well as to Vietnam for job analysis and staffing evaluation. Three
fellowships to Thailand were granted to candidates identified for advanced degrees in Environmental
Studies, Transport Engineer and Business Administration. Sida provided Technical Assistance for financial
management, installing the accounting system in all Provinces, not only the seven RMP and LSRSP-2
provinces. Technical and financial audit services were provided. However, technical assistance related to
Project Management and Monitoring did not materialize. Further development of the agencies capacities to
report on the projects accounting is required.

Component B.4: Development of a strategy for strengthening performance of the local contracting and
consulting industry (US$0.02 million, [appraisal]; US$0.0 million, [completion]). This component is
rated marginally satisfactory.

RMP aimed to progress the commercialization of all MCTPC construction and maintenance agencies and
to promote competitive procurement of contractors and supervision consultants. Strong competition was
evident from reviewing bid prices, which were progressively lower than estimates. However, less progress
was made on organizational structure. Although a preliminary strategy was prepared and a foundation
outline for a Lao Business Construction Group was drafted, no association for the contracting and
consulting industry has yet been established. The technical assistance for this component did not
materialize and, therefore, a strategy for strengthening the performance of the local contracting and
consulting industry was not completed.

In establishing current baseline industry data, it is apparent that there is a large pool of small enterprises
operating within a fragmented industry. Local contractor capacity has improved in the number of
contractors available, with steady growth each year. Figures indicate that more than half (68 percent) of
construction companies have an annual turnover of less than US$500,000, with 40 percent having annual
turnovers less than US$200,000. Nevertheless, the contracting industry does not have adequate access to
financial markets and encounters difficulties in securing guarantees, which would increase opportunities for
growth and competition.

Component B.5: Involvement of road users and beneficiaries in road maintenance activities (US$0.5
million, [appraisal]; US$0.00 million, [completion]). This component is rated marginally satisfactory.

Road users have achieved basic levels of participation through representation on the RMFAB, and through
the consultation process conducted through road trips by the RMF Secretariat and Board representatives.
However, no formal association to represent road users has been formed as yet.

The RMP, supported by a parallel LSRSP-2, strengthened the technical and managerial capacity in
MCTPC and the selected four pilot DCTPCs. Technical assistance to the LRD and DCTPCs for the
development and implementation of a rural transport planning strategy was only partially completed.
Villages located in the pilot provinces participated in routine maintenance contracts and fostered
development of small-scale community contractors.          The CRM was developed for the sustainable
management of basic access in rural areas. Planning based on the PRTP is implemented using
labour-based/ equipment-supported methods (LBES), and maintenance procedures employing Village
Maintenance Committees (VMC). A program and implementation plan for community-based activities and


                                                     - 11 -

participation in road maintenance is being integrated with a Japanese Social Development Fund grant for a
Sustainable Rural Mobility and Participation (SRMP) project that was approved in June 2004.
Experiences from the SRMP will provide inputs to the development of the Rural Transport Infrastructure
Policy.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Periodic Maintenance. The economic evaluation undertaken during project appraisal for national roads
was limited to an economic evaluation of the first year works program and to provide guidelines on
threshold values for DOR for the preparation of later stages of the multi-annual program. The appraisal
selection of contracts was based upon the 10-year Rolling Maintenance Plan, which used economic
selection criteria based on the World Bank-endorsed Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM-III). Selection of contracts in the Local Roads Network for MP-1 was based on experience and
knowledge of the territory.

The intention expressed in the PAD was that selection of contracts to be executed under MP-2 and MP-3
would be based on the output of the pavement management system to be made operational during the first
year of the project. The introduction of the pavement management system was however delayed and it was
only made operational during 2004, and therefore unavailable for evaluating MP-3. The road pavement
management system was utilized for the MP-4 preparation, in mid 2004. A list of the road sections
evaluated at appraisal, the periodic maintenance road works costs, and the typical road user unit cost are
presented in Annex 3.

The ex-ante economic evaluation yielded an overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 30 percent, with
three projects having a marginal rate of return between 13 percent and 15 percent. The ex-post economic
evaluation shows a satisfactory economic justification of the project road investments, due to the fact that
the lower ex-post traffic was somewhat compensated by the lower ex-post intervention costs. All road
sections have an ERR higher than 12 percent including the three projects with marginal rates of return. The
economic rates of return vary from 14 percent to 103 percent and the overall project ERR is 33 percent.

The Local Roads Network first year periodic maintenance component extend to some US$0.6 million
across 9 projects; however the individual projects were not subject at appraisal to economic evaluation. The
average intervention cost was less than US$4,000 per kilometer. No pre-project economic evaluation was
undertaken for routine maintenance works, because of the nature of these low cost interventions and their
predictablt high levels of economic benefits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was substantial.         The project fostered the establishment of a
"maintenance culture" within the responsible institutions at the national and local levels, and established the
proper tools and capacity enhancement programs for developing public management and private sector
delivery of services. Routine and periodic maintenance is now a primary focus of MCTPC. Allocation of
funds for routine and periodic maintenance activities has increased significantly as a direct result of the
revenue generated from the RMF. MCTPC recognizes that reapportioning the RMF to increase the
allocations for emergency and reconstruction works, as well as dedicating more to the local road network is
necessary. Though MCTPC recognizes that maintenance remains a priority over network expansion, to
effectively shift its policies towards the goals of its Long Term Strategy Plan entails stronger endorsement



                                                      - 12 -

from national government. MCTPC has enhanced its ability to prepare road investment plans; conduct
procurement activities through a small but increasingly competitive private road sector industry; expanded
its axle-load control program; and increased its capacity for project implementation. It has sound
accounting practices and has conducted regular technical audits.

The restructuring of the Environmental and Social Division (ESD) in 2001 instituted a framework for
improving inter-agency coordination for identifying and mitigating environmental and social inequities.
MCTPC and DOR can further develop the Division's capacity to carry out its objective of ensuring all
works conform to the Environmental Guidelines for Road Projects so that any adverse environmental
impacts are effectively addressed in a timely and satisfactory manner.

MCTPC displayed some reluctance with recruiting and engaging consultants for certain aspects of the
project's technical assistance. Under the second phase of the program, additional focus on technical
advisory activities for both the RMF Secretariat and RMFAB will contribute to strengthening the
framework towards sound financial and economic decision-making in the operation and performance of an
efficient management system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Adverse climatic conditions. Particularly heavy and prolonged rainy seasons in 2002 and 2003 resulted in
significant damage to the country's road network. As the emergency maintenance needs were substantially
higher than the projected 15 percent under the RMF budget provided for routine maintenance, and the
limited funding available under the GOL consolidated budget, the RMF increased its annual routine and
emergency works allocation to US$5.3 million.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Annual Increase to the Fuel Levy. The GOL authorized only one fuel levy increase during the life of the
project. In FY 2002/2003, the revenues from the fuel levy were LAK 13.8 billion, or 52 percent of the
total revenues to the RMF of LAK 26.7 billion. For FY 2003/2004, following the 50 percent increase in
the fuel levy in October 2003, the revenues from the fuel levy were LAK 21 billion, about 56 percent of the
total revenues to the RMF of LAK 37 billion, which represents about 24 percent of the estimated road
preservation needs. The fuel levy target at the end of RMP1 was LAK 135 per liter, this amount could
have generated about 45 percent of road maintenance needs.

Revenue Transfers from the Provincial Accounts. The transfer of revenues from provincial accounts to
the RMF account remains very slow, taking an average of 3-4 months, as the provincial treasuries appear
to make use of the funds as a float. This matter needs serious attention by the Ministry of Finance, as about
LAK 3 billion of the fuel levy revenues is usually held back by the provinces and the full increase does not
produce benefits in the short-term.

National Banking Constraints. The local contracting industry is constrained by insufficient access to
capital markets due to the current national banking sector regulations. Also, contractors are unable to
secure local bank guarantees as required for contract execution, under a deposit or collateral in the full
amount of the required guarantee.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Overall Quality of Maintenance Works. The technical audit concluded that the quality of maintenance
works being executed was sometimes below expected standards, revealing sub-standard construction
materials as the primary culprit, as well as poor construction practices and shortcomings of related works


                                                     - 13 -

supervision. The suitability of available materials and over-design of the specifications for periodic
maintenance of the NRN and LRN resulted in assertions of inadequate construction quality in some road
sections. In the case of rehabilitation of selected sections of the national roads, the design standard should
ensure that the improved road section is of higher standard than the original road, so that the overall
condition of the roads improve over time. This would imply higher rehabilitation costs for the improved
section, but would yield longer-term benefits.

The ongoing maintenance program, planned to provide periodic maintenance on 1100 km of the NRN and
300 km of the LRN, was expanded threefold, covering significantly more than the projected lengths, at
1940 km of the NRN and 822 km of the LRN, all within the original budget allocation. This is a result of
the cost effective competitive bidding procedures followed for the contracting of the periodic maintenance
works, and the much lower bid prices of maintenance works compared to the engineer's estimate. MCTPC
should ensure that the proposed bid prices realistically reflect the unit cost per item.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total project costs were estimated at US$47.8 million (including contingencies of US$7.27
million), of which the IDA Credit was to finance US$25 million equivalent. Due to exchange rate
fluctuations, IDA ultimately financed US$26.6 million of the US$42.35 million total project completion
cost.

Periodic maintenance was estimated to cost US$26.66 million at appraisal, while the actual cost was nearly
on target at approximately US$32.08 million (of which IDA financed US$25.13 million). In the case of
routine maintenance of the NRN, however, appraisal estimates were for US$13.35 million, whereas actual
costs only amounted to US$5.72 million (of which US$4.85 million was financed by counterpart
contribution from GOL). This is explained by the higher coverage of periodic maintenance which reduced
the needs for routine maintenance on some sections. Institutional development was estimated to cost
US$2.0 million at appraisal; and its total actual cost amounting to US$1.59 million (with IDA financing
US$0.68 million). Goods were estimated to cost US$1.34 million at appraisal, while actual costs amounted
to US$1.96 million (of which IDA contributed US$0.99 million). The IDA contribution for goods increased
US$0.5 million, and Credit amended accordingly, to enable internationally competitive procurement of
weigh scales. Annex 2 summarizes project costs by item.

Sida and NDF co-financing arrangements were to contribute US$1.12 million and US$5.16 million,
respectively. By project completion, Sida and NDF had financed US$3.03 million and US$5.34 million,
respectively. Counterpart contributions from GOL amounted to US$7.39 million, against an appraisal
estimate of US$16.51 million, to be used primarily for routine maintenance of the NRN.

The Credit closed as originally scheduled on December 31, 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely as the revenue collection mechanism is established and fully
operational. The rating is based upon the following expectations remaining consistent:

    a) The Government demonstrates continued commitment to the principle of fully funding maintenance
         priorities, and providing budgetary support to the RMF to meet all maintenance needs;
    b) Demonstrated commitment to the requisite increases in the fuel levy to achieve the levels that will
         enable attainment of a fully sustainable cost recovery mechanism;



                                                     - 14 -

    c) Effective collection and utilization of traffic count, road condition, and other road data to evaluate
        options in prioritizing investments;
    d) Institutional capacity enhancements across the multiple agencies involved in the sector; and
    e) The growth and efficient operation of the Fund encourages donors' participation in an identified
        sector-wide approach for the medium-term, contributing to improved coordination towards more
        effective and sustainable planning.

The purpose of the RMF is to establish a steady and adequate funding source for road maintenance based
on substantial recovery from road users. Under the second phase of the program, MCTPC's strategic goals
include an Asset Management Plan, outlining the objectives for cost effective and long-term investment
scenarios, as well as the implementation of an important capacity building component. These have been
developed to better integrate the coordination of management, financial, economic, and engineering
resource capabilities in identifying maintenance priorities for future annual work programs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The RMP supported the Government in instituting: a funding mechanism for road maintenance; a road
management system for the entire national road network; enhanced abilities of the institutions which deal
with road maintenance at the central, provincial and local levels; and successfully introduced and supported
the implementation of a national axle load control strategy. In addition, it supported three years of
maintenance programs. The civil works were properly performed, with some shortcomings on quality as
reported in B.3 and 5.3 above, the roads are fully operational and assumed by the provincial departments.
The private sector participated through national competitive contracting procedures and village-based
contracts.

The RMF confronts a difficult challenge, one that will require GOL commitment in the need to address a
substantial financing gap in the medium term. Although the RMF has grown steadily, the current estimated
revenues constitute only 24 percent of the US$15 million estimated annual road preservation needs. The
target is LAK 120 billion, or 75 percent of road maintenance needs, at the end of FY2008. The Road
Maintenance Program was envisioned as having a two-phase implementation, with the first stage
establishing the foundations of a road maintenance system and a functioning financing mechanism. The
Bank and the donor community has pledged its continued involvement on the Governments road
maintenance initiative, to bring the road cost-recovery-based financing closer to a sustainable level, to
enhance the management systems, to control heavy transport and road safety, and extend their coverage
over the whole country. In order for GOL to meet all its networks maintenance needs, incremental additions
to the fuel levy will ensure the funds growth to increasingly sustainable levels by the end of the program in
2009.

A national Rural Transport Policy is currently under development and will facilitate implementation and
provide a framework for sustainability of the preservation of the district and rural road networks. Funding
for local roads (provincial, district and rural) is particularly scarce compared with the needs, and an
improved mechanism for sharing and distributing funds will be developed and piloted under RMP-2.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance during lending was highly satisfactory.

During identification, the task team ensured that the development objectives and project scope were
consistent with both the Government's sectoral priorities and IDA's CAS.            The APL approach was


                                                     - 15 -

correctly identified and set a successful foundation for the envisaged two-phase implementation
arrangements for the program's realization. The project team, during preparation,was highly qualified for
the assignment. It consisted of highly qualified professionals with a relevant skills mix to properly assess
and design an effective program for implementing both a national Road Management System, accompanied
by the establishment of a sustainable revenue collection mechanism in a road user based fuel levy.
Additional expertise was lent to ensure that a solid institutional capacity base would be developed and
nurtured. The project complied with all relevant safeguard policies even though it triggered no immediate
safeguard issues. The appraisal rightly indicated viability of the project's major works. Monitoring
indicators were carefully identified at the time of appraisal and provided measurable performance
outcomes. The project's main risks and benefits were identified correctly. IDA maintained a strong working
relationship with the Borrower.

7.2 Supervision:
IDA's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.        IDA conducted eight biannual supervision
missions between May 2001 and October 2004. The regularity of mission timing and uniformity in the
composition of team members contributed to providing a consistent message and effective monitoring of the
project's technical, fiduciary and procurement aspects. Close cooperation and open dialogue with MCTPC
increased ownership and coordination, and enabled timely and attentive responses to client needs.

The task team demonstrated its responsiveness and flexibility in addressing two modifications during
project implementation. The team expeditiously advised on the how to best respond to the emergency
maintenance needs which arose from the damage caused by the torrential rains of August 2002 and 2003.
Additionally, the team was quick to make the necessary DCA amendment to accommodate the financing of
the goods packages originally envisaged as part of the NDF support.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall IDA performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower during the preparation stage was highly satisfactory. The central
Government demonstrated strong commitment towards achieving sustainable maintenance of the road
system as reflected by the establishment of the RMF in 2001 and by promoting sound policy initiatives for
decentralization and procurement that were positive for the sector. MCTPC staff led preparation, and the
participating departments and DCTPC teams assigned were committed and assumed ownership of the
project. A detailed Project Implementation Plan created the proper framework to support the related
implementing arrangements including timing, procurement, technical, financial, and monitoring and
reporting aspects. The relevant GOL agencies involved understood and embraced the requisite institutional
and policy reforms introduced under the Project. Commitment to project objectives and readiness for
implementation was demonstrated in the Borrower's achievement of the requisite conditions of negotiation
and effectiveness outlined in the Project Appraisal Document.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Sustained commitment to the
longer-term institutional objectives of the road maintenance fund remains a positive development and
promotes a sound policy approach to properly managing financial resources for the sector. Although the
original commitment by GOL to increase the fuel levy during each year of project implementation did not
reach the intended target of LAK135, the RMF has demonstrated its effectiveness in generating sufficient
revenue to fund maintenance needs once the proper rate is achieved. GOL reluctance to utilize international



                                                    - 16 -

expertise to support certain technical assistance and implementation activities curtailed the impact of the
capacity enhancement objectives of the subcomponents.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the project implementation agency was satisfactory. MCTPC assumed responsibility to
ensure proper supervision and quality outputs during implementation. As a result of little attention to
materials testing and quality control on some of the road sections, the periodic maintenance works of the
national roads were not always to expected quality standards. The quality of maintenance works being
executed would have to improve in order to ensure the sustainability of the program. MCTPC and the
DCTPCs complied substantially with the legal covenants of the Credit and project agreements.

Social and Environmental Safeguards. The Environmental and Social Division (ESD) was reformed in
2001 and is now an integral department in DOR and MCTPC. Project activities have generally not had
significant adverse effects on the environment; most issues are minor and localized, are adequately
addressed by the project guidelines relating to environmental impacts, road safety, resettlement, and land
acquisition. Strong positive impacts were observed as a result of the improved roads. Some villages have
moved closer to improved roads for better access to social and economic services, which in turn has helped
in poverty alleviation. The project has also provided employment opportunities and skills generation
through routine maintenance contracts to villagers working on the roads. Contract-provided work has
generated some local employment of unskilled labor.

The institutional framework and inter-agency coordination for addressing environmental and social issues
require substantial strengthening in order to become more effective. Concerns were noted in the following
areas: (i) Staffs have limited familiarity with the Bank's safeguard requirements; (ii) Although
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have been made available, no system of recording contractor
performance and compliance with social and environmental conditions has been observed; (iii) The limited
capacity and performance on supervising and monitoring social and environmental issues in the project is
mirrored by a similar weakness at the provincial and project site levels; and (iv) Lack of a budget allocation
in the project for monitoring and implementation of the EMP and limited awareness of environmental and
social issues on the part of engineers, contractors, and villagers are critical factors affecting monitoring and
evaluation and ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of mitigation plans.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Giving maintenance priority. A paradigm shift in GOL policy where the preservation of the existing
network would receive priority over its expansion is fundamental to the success of the program. The
modification in GOL policy means that the unbalanced allocation of resources between new
investment/rehabilitation and maintenance would be corrected on the basis of optimal socio-economic and
affordability criteria. To achieve this objective, MCTPC recognizes that reapportioning the RMF to
increase the allocations for emergency and reconstruction works, as well as dedicating more to the local
road network is necessary. The RMP emphasized preservation of the assets which were rehabilitated during
the last decade. MCTPC acknowledges that there are still considerable needs to increase accessibility,
especially in rural areas, and is formulating a strategy to ensure the concern is addressed properly.
Furthermore, the RMP underscored to MCTPC that additional increases in capital investments in
upgrading (rather than maintaining the existing network) without an appropriate maintenance financing and
management system in place jeopardizes the sustainability of the new and past investments. Though



                                                     - 17 -

MCTPC recognizes that maintenance remains a priority over network expansion, the Long Term strategy
still requires sufficient endorsement from the national government to effectively shift its policies towards
that aim.

Realizing the benefits of enforcement of axle loading regulations. Appropriate axle load legislation,
effectively enforced, offers considerable advantages to network sustainability. The RMF has improved
measures for controlling the management of toll stations. The enhancement of this program under RMP2
should further discourage overloading, however success in doing so will require capacity development of
key staff as well as continued enforcement of the trucking industry for the foreseeable future. Consideration
should be given to installing automatic traffic (and axle) counters in the vicinity of major weigh stations to
verify the number and types of vehicles passing by. Improvement in financial monitoring and leakage
prevention would enhance the prospects for more sound management practices. Additional RMF revenue
can be generated through the redirection and enhancement of previously limited revenue from road tolls and
from fines imposed on overloaded vehicles, including a new annual surcharge on heavy vehicles and fees on
international road traffic transiting the country.

Results oriented Capacity Enhancement promotes sustainability and ownership. While focusing
capacity building on training of individuals' in-house technical capabilities remains important, addressing
institutional incentives and defining organizational responsibilities is necessary to achieving sustainable
capacity. Closely aligning capacity building assistance to project outcomes aims to encourage efficient
allocation and use of project resources. Identification of capacity building needs by both MCTPC and the
DCTPCs encourages ownership in the design and implementation of interventions and promotes monitoring
of the resultant outcome indicators.

Continued commitment to program objectives is vital to long-term success. A second phase of the APL
is under implementation and will (a) bring the road cost-recovery-based financing closer to a sustainable
level; (b) enhance the management systems and extend them to cover the management of both national and
local road networks over the whole country; and (c) expand the coverage of heavy transport control
throughout the country. The benefits of the first Phase will therefore only be fully realized through Phase 2,
thereby contributing to the sustainability of the intervention.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC) supported by an
International Development Association (IDA) Credit and with additional assistance provided by the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) has implemented the Road Maintenance Programme Phase 1 (RMP-1). The
intervention aimed to establish a modern road management system, which would assist in mobilizing
adequate resources and guarantees that funds are being used effectively for maintenance management.

The RMP-1 was launched in 2001 and closed at the end of December 2004. The intention to initiate and
develop the procedures and institutions which would support the new approach to road management has
largely been achieved. Physical implementation and all capacity building activities are well advanced.
Overall the project is meeting its development objectives satisfactorily and all three trigger criteria required
for preparation of the subsequent RMP-2 have been achieved.

There are, however, a number of important lessons learned from the implementation of RMP-1 that should



                                                      - 18 -

be addressed in the RMP-2.

The summary of outputs from RMP-1 is presented in annex 7. For further details on any aspect, please
refer to sections 11: Lessons learned, and 12: Conclusion.

Overall, the Government has made a strong start towards achieving sustainable maintenance of the road
system, as shown by the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) in 2001 and the successful
implementation of three years of maintenance programmes with support from the Road Maintenance
Project. The RMP1, supported by a parallel financed Second Lao-Swedish Road Sector Project
(LSRSP-2), strengthened the technical and managerial capacity in the Ministry of Communication,
Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC) and in selected provincial Divisions of Communication,
Transport, Post and Construction (DCTPC). The approach to management and delivery of maintenance
was established through three successive annual work programmes for periodic and routine maintenance on
the NRN and on the LRN in the selected provinces, and the participation of the private sector through the
development of national competitive contracting procedures and village-based contracts. The purpose of the
RMF is to establish a steady and adequate domestic funding source for road maintenance based on the
substantial recovery of costs from road users. The Government currently meets an estimated 45 percent of
road maintenance needs, of which nearly one third is sourced from the RMF, mainly for national roads. The
RMF is growing slowly and effort is now required to establish and achieve a sustainable level, and to
develop its role for the LRN. Steps have been taken to protect the road assets by reducing the overloading
of heavy vehicles, but much more effort is needed for improving the safety and administration of road
transport.

With the support from RMP for growth and efficient operation of the Fund, other donors are showing
willingness to provide matching funds, making a programmed sector-wide approach viable in the
medium-term, thus contributing to improved coordination and better impact from future interventions in
terms of effectiveness and sustainability. Funding for local roads (provincial, district and rural) is
particularly scarce compared with the needs, and an improved mechanism for sharing and distributing
funds needs to be developed and piloted under RMP2.

National and provincial roads make up an important part of the overall road network in Lao PDR, and
significant investments are necessary to maintain and improve this network. Hence there is a need for
powerful tools to support an integrated decision making process for these roads. This can ensure that
decisions are taken on network level considerations.

While RMS will be used as the overall road management framework, PRMMS and CRM are still under
development for use on local roads.

PRMMS has been applied in the 7 provinces covered by RMP-1 and LSRSP-2 but has not yet received the
necessary formal assessment to confirm its adequacy and effectiveness in systematically planning and
programming maintenance works on provincial, district, and rural roads. It does not include any time
dimension; hence the PRMMS is not suitable for expenditure planning over a time period of more than a
single year. Thus PRMMS cannot be used to derive expenditure planning for the medium or long terms.
Furthermore, the use of the PRMMS methodology, when it is extended down to the district and rural road
levels, for which it was not originally designed, begins to diverge from the stated policy aims of GOL,
which aim to focus on community responsive pro-poor interventions.

CRM would probably gain increased importance as a new poverty-focused management approach for rural
transport infrastructure. It covers both maintenance and investment management and has been both


                                                   - 19 -

formally evaluated and approved by DOR to be used until such time the Lao Rural Transport Policy has
been developed. Much remains however in terms of awareness raising, capacity building, and
mainstreaming before the system is fully operational and internalized.

The quality of maintenance works implemented during RMP-1 is below expected standards, especially on
the local road network. This could jeopardize the sustainability of the whole programme. The foremost
weakness in implementation of the RMP is the poor/ sub-standard quality of construction materials being
used'

Even though implementation of project components at the Transport Control Division and the RMF
Secretariat and Road Maintenance Fund Advisory Board has progressed reasonably well over the project
period, it is believed that the performance could have been much stronger with planned TA support
mobilized.

While this report clearly shows that RMP-1 has been very effective in pursuing a relevant program design,
impact remains to be evaluated while efficiency could be improved. Low quality works and inadequate
management and insufficient enforcement could jeopardize the sustainability of the whole program if no
remedial measures are taken. Mobilization of planned TA, strengthened project planning, implementation
and monitoring, as well as a continued focus on improved capacities and institutions of the public and
private sectors during the subsequent RMP-2 are considered crucial in this respect.

SUMMARY OF MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

This section provides a summary of major factors affecting implementation and outcome; including factors
outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency, factors subject to Government control, factors
subject to implementing agency control and cost and financing (ToR Outputs, task 3). Details are provided
in previous sections in the main report.

Factors Outside The Control Of Government Or Implementing Agency

Major factors affecting implementation

Out of necessity large portions of the funds allocated to routine maintenance have been requisitioned in
recent years for emergency works to repair damage caused by landslides.

Major factors affecting outcome

Provision of technical assistance and training to the Road Maintenance Advisory Board commenced but
was curtailed due to the ill-health of the appointed Adviser.

FACTORS SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT CONTROL

Major factors affecting implementation

For the strengthening of the preparation, execution and monitoring of Projects, human resources are
needed, both in sufficient number and in sufficient quality.

A number of Skills Shortages are becoming apparent, including managerial Skills Shortages, which might
need a centralized approach to resolve.


                                                     - 20 -

In order to fund the necessary network maintenance expenditures a series of phased increases in the fuel
levy are required.

Major factors affecting outcome

Critical staffing vacancies remain unfilled e.g. at the Secretariat of the Road Maintenance Fund.

Development of Strategy for Strengthening Performance of the Local Contracting and Consulting Industry;
develop framework for private sector development.

Overloading is a multi-dimensioned issue that would seem to require a holistic approach; a thorough review
of the industry and the forces active therein. This requires a cross-sectoral approach and would require
careful planning possibly with broad stakeholder participation.

At present no rural transport policy has been defined for Lao PDR and local road interventions have
proceeded without an overarching overall planning framework. The CRM has attempted to highlight
poverty alleviation and local participation in the planning process but this methodology has not yet been
mainstreamed.

FACTORS SUBJECT TO IMPLEMENTING AGENCY CONTROL

Major factors affecting implementation

Periodic Maintenance, Rehabilitation Works and Routine Maintenance Works were all completed
according to schedule, however it was recorded that final contracted intervention costs were, in general,
lower than the Engineers estimates, which in turn flagged some quality issues, which were discussed and
reported during the Technical Audit.

Major factors affecting outcome

The planned strengthening of the project implementation capacity of the Department of Transport, included
provision of technical assistance and training to support the Implementation of a strategy to reduce
overloading on the road network. All physical works were completed; however no TA were engaged. It has
been generally accepted that RMP-1 implementation would have benefited quite considerably, if the
planned TA would have been procured and mobilized, as per original plans and agreements.

PTD still has no designated (local) Transport Economist, who could be fully trained in HDM-4 operations
and its associated data management activities. Training in the economic evaluation of bridge interventions
is lacking. (Since the planned TA for RMP-2 excludes any substantial transport economics input or
support in the use of HDM-4, future sustainability of road and bridge project economic evaluation appears
in doubt).

LRD should develop evaluation practices for local roads (particularly district and rural roads) that can also
reflect social equity, in particular the poverty alleviation objectives of the government (NGPES).

In the case of rural transport infrastructure the Community Road Model (CRM ­ developed by the LSRSP)
provides a bottom-up process that can indicate the worth of a project. There is some confusion and delay
over its implementation schedule.


                                                       - 21 -

FACTORS RELATED TO COSTS AND FINANCING

Major factors affecting implementation

Several factors are noteworthy in this section.

Whilst not a specific cost/financing but related issue is the provision of timely external audit services to
World Bank projects. Disbursements Division have informed the consultants that a specified international
auditing firm with an office in Vientiane is to be used for the external financial audit of all World Bank
Projects in Lao PDR. Whilst this is fully supported by the consultants and is paramount to good
governance and sound financial monitoring there appears to be time delays in audits occurring related to the
physical resources available to the auditing firm. It is preferable if audits can be undertaken expediently to
assist governance and financial reporting and management. Some discussions and insistence by the
implementing agency/Bank may need to be undertaken to ensure tighter audit scheduling across all future
Bank projects and RMP 2.

Additionally, it is vital that all funds provided by donors are allocated and disbursed in a timely manner in
accordance with agreed work schedules to ensure full disbursement to the benefit of the country and future
project commitments. This also ensures that extensions to project closing dates are not necessary as has
occurred in relation to the NDF component.

The third factor is the strengthening of the operation of the Road Maintenance Fund and Secretariat
activities. This has been identified in the Preparation Mission undertaken from March 18 to April 1 2004
and incorporated into the PAD for RMP2, clearly this is the key strategic factor in developing a sufficient
flow of funds for self financing and managing road maintenance activities well beyond RMP 2.

The final factor of note is the exchange differential (loss) of USD 366,365 which has occurred throughout
the life of the project to September 30 2004 ­ whilst we have not undertaken any analysis of this item, and
in project percentage terms it is small, it does represent nevertheless, funds which are not available for
physical or capacity building activities.

Major factors affecting outcome

A cost-sharing system for community management of rural transport infrastructure needs to encompass
both maintenance and investments in order to ever becoming sustainable and helpful in supporting the
poverty reducing efforts of the Government.

A guaranteed and adequate source and flow of funds needs to be secured, to cover annual maintenance
subsidies for rural communities, or else a fully paid system should be applied.

PERFORMANCE

Bank's Performance

Following discussions with key Ministry officials conducted by the consultants there were no adverse
comments received about the Bank's performance throughout the duration of the contracted period.

World Bank missions were conducted in a professional, skilled and constructive manner and comprised


                                                     - 22 -

people with a sound knowledge of contractual issues and `in-country' knowledge. The timing of missions
was appropriate and comments received from MCTPC staff indicated a respectful working relationship and
flexible approach by staff. Cross donor co-operation was also evident at each mission within the wider
strategic government framework of poverty alleviation across sectoral development.

It was also noted that Aide Memoires were generally completed in a timely manner with clear reference
points to actions required with timelines noted. Successive Aide Memoires and associated reports
consistently related to project deliverables and follow up for action items. Planning for the second phase of
the Road Maintenance Project succinctly identified lessons learned from RMP1 and incorporated these
learnings into the Project Appraisal Document for RMP2.

The Bank's performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower's Performance

The Government of Lao PDR and the implementing agency ­ the MCTPC have contributed significantly to
the success of RMP1. The first phase was intended to initiate and develop the procedures and institutions
which would support the new approach to road management, managed by the MCTPC and funded by the
Road Maintenance Fund through costs recovered from road users. Both the government and the
implementing agency have readily adopted measures and initiatives by the Bank throughout the contractual
period to meet the objectives of RMP 1.

Significant physical outputs have resulted along with recognisable capacity building at both the central and
decentralized levels. Various sections of the MCTPC and DCTPCs along with additional donor agencies
have been involved in implementation and signification co-ordination has occurred involving the GOL at
policy and strategic levels and the staff of the implementing agency. This co-ordination has allowed the
project to substantially meet its development objectives and trigger points for RMP2 as well as satisfying
Key Performance Indicators.

With strengthened project planning, implementation and monitoring, as well as a commitment from all
parties to achieving the project objectives, it is expected that significant development and strengthening of
procedures and institutions, and physical progress will occur throughout RMP2.

The Borrower's and Implementing Agencies performance is rated as satisfactory.

CONCLUSIONS

In general, the implementation of RMP ­ 1 proceeded well. Evidence for this is provided in Aide Memoire
for the World Bank Supervision Mission for RMP ­ 1, 18 March to 1 April 2004. Paragraph 2 states that,
"Physical implementation and all capacity building activities are well advanced". Also, in Paragraph 3, it is
further stated that, "Most Key Performance Indicators (KPI) have met the targets for this stage, and the
others are expected to achieve the ultimate targets with some delay".

COMPLETE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RMS

Substantial input to the development and establishment of Road Management System (RMS), which will be
the principal system for DOR and its Divisions in the future. RAD assisted by TA has provided input to
unit rates, has tested and commented on various subsystems, and worked closely with the RMS
Consultant(s) and the PTD with the aim to provide a successful implementation of the system. Continuation


                                                     - 23 -

of the dissemination of detailed knowledge of the RMS, and its subsystems, to PTD and to RAD staff will
be an important future requirement. For the long-term sustainability of the system, it is of great importance
to train as many staff as possible to avoid lapses, such as when trained personnel are transferred to other
divisions, or are absent for other reasons. Appropriately 4 ­ 5 persons in its division should have adequate
knowledge to run and use the basic RMS features, in order to achieve the desired results. Some further
development work on PRMMS and CRM will most probably be necessary.

ASSIST IMPLEMENTATION OF RMF

The purpose of the RMF is to establish a steady and adequate domestic funding source for road
maintenance based on the substantial recovery of costs from road users. The Government currently meets
an estimated 45 % of road maintenance needs, of which nearly one third is sourced from the RMF, mainly
for national roads. The RMF is growing slowly and effort is now required to establish and achieve a
sustainable level, and to develop its role for the LRN. Steps have been taken to protect the road assets by
reducing the overloading of heavy vehicles, but much more effort is needed for improving the safety and
administration of road transport

With the support from RMP for growth and efficient operation of the Fund, other donors are showing
willingness to provide matching funds, making a programmed sector-wide approach viable in the
medium-term, thus contributing to improved coordination and better impact from future interventions in
terms of effectiveness and sustainability. Funding for local roads (provincial, district and rural) is
particularly scarce compared with the needs, and an improved mechanism for sharing and distributing
funds needs to be developed and piloted under RMP-2.

RMF management. With regard to RMF management, it is recommended that RMF should:

    (a) Upgrade the current accounting system to support management understanding and decision
         making;
    (b) Implement more streamlined handling of information and associated improvements in management
         information systems;
    (c) Strengthen decision making and auditing to ensure that expenditures are made only for works
         permitted under the RMF's establishing decree;
    (d) Ensure documentation of the reasoning behind key or controversial decisions;
    (e) Ensure that RMF staff and the Advisory Board are aware of the rights and obligations conferred
         by the Prime Minister's decree that established the RMF and subsequent decisions under the
         Decree;
    (f) Increase staffing of the RMF Secretariat to support its growing programme; and
    (g) Purchase independent and other specialist advice from the private sector using its own funds.

Finally, it is recommended that the RMF should, in keeping with its intended role, achieve a greater level of
independence from MCTPC, with the RMFAB having leadership of its policies and practices, greater
emphasis being placed on revenue generation and management of spending, and the RMF office
establishing contractual relationships with DOR to provide necessary assistance.

RMF revenue. Raising the fuel levy is the best means for increasing funding for road maintenance. This
Review recommends that the fuel levy be increased to LAK 100 per litre commencing on 1 October 2004,
and by a further LAK 50 per litre per annum thereafter. The RMF will need to develop a sound, sensitive
and persuasive case for the proposed rises in the fuel levy that is convincing to both politicians and the
community at large.


                                                    - 24 -

Other sources of income. It is recommended that the RMF should review the merit of other current revenue
sources (e.g. consider not collecting tolls at locations that generate low net revenue), and examine
introduction of a broad-based annual registration fee as part of a balanced cost-recovery charge for roads
and as a replacement for the yet to be implemented heavy vehicle surcharge.

IMPROVE PROJECT PREPARATION, EXECUTION AND MONITORING

The RMP has brought maintenance activities to the centre stage of Lao PDR's road programme which is a
positive development. The programme has contributed to the establishment of a long-term roads
maintenance funding source (RMF), which is now funding all routine maintenance activities and the
required counterpart funding for the periodic maintenance. Periodic maintenance is now the main focus of
IDA and SIDA road sector programmes. Allocation of funds for periodic maintenance activities has
increased significantly during the past 3-4 years. The financial and institutional frameworks are in place to
support the maintenance activities. The physical targets for road maintenance established under RMP 1 are
being achieved/ exceeded.

National and Provincial Roads. The Transport Sector Issues Review Report recommended that economic
evaluation remain the principal decision-making tool for justifying road investment, i.e. construction of new
roads and upgrading existing roads beyond their original design standard. The Planning and Technical
Division (PTD) of DOR should develop expertise in investment analysis to aid decision-making. This
capability should be reflected in the ToR's for the forthcoming RMP-2 and the LSRSP-3 Implementation
Phase and staff assigned to support.

Local Roads. The Transport Sector Issues Review Report stated that, in the case of low level roads, other
evaluation methods will also be required. The Community Road Model (CRM ­ developed by the LSRSP)
provides a bottom-up process that can indicate the worth of a project. It is also recommended that the LRD
should develop evaluation practices for local roads (particularly district and rural roads) that can also
reflect social equity, in particular poverty alleviation, objectives of the government, etc.

These tasks/ elements should be reflected in the ToR for the LSRSP-3 Implementation Phase and staff
assigned to support.

Results Oriented Capacity Building. Capacity Building is on track with a structured Transfer Knowledge
Plan including formal training and on-the-job training. Excellent team work has been developed with RAD
staff with priority given to Director, Deputy Director's and Chief Maintenance Engineer. During the
project period key staff members from RAD have undertaken International Project Management training in
Sweden and Denmark. This training was funded through Sida and Danida. On top of this, a comprehensive
training programme for MCTPC/DOR staff amounting to US$ 179,100 was financed by IDA.

Inadequate human resource capacity often prevents project achievements meeting targets even when
appropriate policy changes have been implemented and financing has been adequate. Focusing capacity
building on training individuals and on technical assistance without addressing also more fundamental
issues of institutional incentives and organisational responsibilities usually fails to achieve a sustainable
capacity and capability. Closely aligning capacity building assistance to project outcomes helps to achieve
more disciplined use of, and stronger client ownership, of project resources. Therefore RMP-2 should be
designed such that MCTPC and DCTPC's will be closely and systematically involved in the identification
of capacity building needs, the design and implementation of capacity-building interventions and the
monitoring of the outcomes with an agreed set of indicators.


                                                       - 25 -

DEVELOP STRATEGY TO IMPROVE PERFORMANCE OF LOCAL CONTRACTING AND
CONSULTING INDUSTRY

One of the development objectives of RMP1 as part of a long term strategy was the development and
implementation by MCTPC, the Road Maintenance Advisory Board and the local contracting and
consulting industry of a strategy for the strengthening of the local contracting and consulting industry.

Progress has been made throughout the project but no association for the consulting industry has yet been
established. A draft set of rules was developed and forwarded to the RMF in 2000. Included in the rules are
sections on roles and duties, membership criteria, name ­ Lao Consulting Companies Group, etc. The rules
provide an effective basis for further development but further development of a strategy and facilitation is
required.

INVOLVE ROAD USERS-BENEFICIARIES IN ROAD MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES

Both World Bank and Sida support the Government's efforts to eradicate mass poverty and to exit from the
group of the Least Developed Countries in the world by 2020 (NGPES). The donor community is
committed to helping the Government eradicate so-called `social labour'. The system that DOR has
developed under the support of RMP-1 and LSRSP-2 for constructing and maintaining basic access in a
sustainable manner is named the Community Road Model (CRM) and integrates planning through a
structured community dialogue (i.e. PRTP), implementation using labour-based equipment supported
methods, and maintenance using the DOR Maintenance Procedures.

The system is based on the fundamental assumption that only by involving the villagers at an early stage ­
and using a structured community dialogue, i.e. PRTP ­ as well as providing them opportunity to be part
of the decision-making process and implementation can community involvement in road maintenance ever
help reduce poverty in a sustainable manner.

The CRM allows local communities help themselves out of poverty. Capacity will be strengthened mainly
at district level, accessibility to markets and social services will improve for rural communities and
democracy will be strengthened by increasing transparency and participation in the planning system for
road development at district level.

The system adds in-built mechanisms for job creation, poverty alleviation through empowerment of
communities, and cost optimization. It is fully in line with current Government policy framework
particularly the NGPES and was therefore approved by DOR to be used for maintaining and else managing
district and rural roads, as well as undesignated access until such time the Lao Rural Transport Policy has
been approved.

Subsequently, the conclusion is that the piloted CRM approach under RMP-1 should be firmly established
in the 7 provinces whereafter it should be spread to other provinces as well.

The two most crucial issues are to ascertain continued support to the 228 VMCs comprising almost ¼
million rural people who have signed the new VMC agreement (based on CRM) in June 2004, with
subsequent extension to new provinces; and to guarantee a steady, safe and adequate flow of funds from the
RMF for covering annual maintenance subsidies for all existing VMCs. If these latter funds cannot be
guaranteed, cost-sharing arrangements should not be made but instead a fully paid system should be
applied (equivalent to a 100% subsidy).


                                                     - 26 -

VEHICULAR WEIGHT CONTROL AND ROAD SAFETY

The enforcement programme has increased from 14 weigh station sites in 5 provinces to 27 sites in 14
provinces. The axle load control programme has made good progress over the past three years. However,
with the delivery of new weigh scales and stations under the RMP1 and RMP2 projects the level of
enforcement should be stepped up so that overloading is virtually eliminated in the country. Funds should
be made available for operations and maintenance of the scales and stations so that the full potential of the
significant investments are realized.

The heavy vehicle monitoring programme shows a remarkable decline in the extent of overloading. Both the
share of vehicles stopped and weighed that are overloaded fallen, and the share of overloaded vehicles that
are heavily overloaded also having declined. A challenge with such programmes is that they be seen to be
fair. With regard to improving the programme, this Review recommends that: (a) all trucks should be
stopped at weigh stations and the weighing charge should be eliminated to avoid the impression that the
programme is oriented to revenue generation; (b) overload fines should be paid by the person or business
that was responsible for the overloading rather than, necessarily, the driver; (c) DOT should not play an
operational role in the programme; (d) a transparent monitoring system should be implemented by DOT to
indicate the efficiency and equity of the inspection system; and (e) to overcome mixed accountability in the
programme, a contractual relationship should be established between RMF and DOT regarding the conduct
and financial management of the programme or, alternatively and far less desirably, responsibility for the
programme should be transferred to DOT with revenues and costs accruing entirely to the DOT.

Finally, it is believed that the most effective Road Safety Project within RMP-2 would: a) ensure the
effective use of the road safety enforcement equipment ordered in RMP-1; b) apply road safety engineering
techniques and publicity campaigns, particularly on rural roads and train local staff in the techniques; and
c) ensure all key players in Road Safety are co-ordinating their initiatives to optimise their effectiveness.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments of Sida -

1.      Overview. In RMP1 there was cooperation between Sida and the World Bank loosely outlined in a
Memorandum of Understanding. According to this, Sida, through LSRSP2, would support road
management development and capacity building in seven provinces and fund part of the maintenance of
provincial, district and rural roads in four of the seven common target provinces. LSRSP2 would also
develop a model for community participation in development and maintenance of basic access. Thus, the
LSRSP2 had three main purposes.

2.      Road Maintenance Fund. In support of the establishment of the RMF, Sida made a condition for
financing of the Road 8 Project that the tolls collected at Nam Theun bridge were devoted to maintenance
of Road 8 together with the condition that the revenues should be transferred to RMF as soon as it was
operational, which was done. Similarly, the weighbridges should be transferred to RMP 1 HTM
component. This was also done.

3.      Financial Management. Sida is very satisfied with the development of the FMS. It is now being
introduced in all 18 provinces. On top of that it has been adopted by MCTPC Department of Budget and
Planning as the financial system for the entire ministry. FMS is currently in the process of being certified
by the Ministry of Finance. FMS has been introduced at the RMF Secretariat, but is not used fully. This
may be attributed to shortage of staff as stated in FIR, but there are also (informal) indications of hesitance



                                                     - 27 -

to cooperate. It may be worth noting that Disbursement Division has not received other technical assistance
than local consultants during the last two years.

4.       Road Management System Analysis. The LSRSP2 maintenance management system is referred to
as PRMMS. PRMMS or as it was renamed PRoMMS is the supporting system used on the provincial level
for yearly planning of routine and periodic maintenance of all maintainable local roads. As such, it is part
of the now approved Maintenance Procedures for the Lao Road Network that comprises procedures for
maintenance management. The parts that were developed and introduced through LSRSP2 support include
procedures especially suitable for management of unpaved (gravel) roads and the supporting systems:
PRoMMS, Financial Management System (FMS) and Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES). The
Maintenance Procedures also includes parts for off-carriage way maintenance of paved roads and the Road
Management System (RMS). The RMS is a much more complex and advanced system that provides
overall time based planning tools. The RMS and PRoMMS complement each other in excellent way if only
the purposes of the two systems are kept in mind.

The PRoMMS requires yearly condition surveys, carried out by provincial staff, of roads under
maintenance and naturally roads in good condition will not be considered for periodic maintenance.
However, over time roads will deteriorate and then the PRoMMS is the tool to make the yearly
maintenance plan within the funding framework for the road category, which the provinces hopefully will
be provided from the RMS. Also, the PRoMMS is intended to be used for all maintainable local roads,
including district and rural roads.

The original intention in the LSRSP 2 Project Document was that the PRoMMS (RMMS) would be
replaced by RMS. During inception, the TA-team found that RMMS had severe shortcomings and there
was a need for systematically organised guidelines/manuals for capacity building combined with a tool for
prioritisation. The development of the Maintenance Procedures and the supporting software PRoMMS
became a necessity for capacity building in the provinces. The procedures and the software were
implemented in the seven provinces during RMP 1 and are accepted as part of the overarching management
system. The full benefits remain to be harvested when the systems are harmonised and benefits are
understood at central and provincial levels.

A late input by the Sida-financed TA is that the MES software has been redesigned to a new platform for
increased stability and to avoid data inconsistencies.

A problem encountered is that PTD never took the expected leading role in managing the development of
the systems, and the TA teams from different firms themselves were unable to coordinate their work.

LRD came on board late in the project and capacity-building objectives were not achieved during the
course of the project.

5.       Community Participation. Community participation in road maintenance has been ensured in the
Maintenance Procedures by providing subsidies to local communities when undertaking responsibility for
routine maintenance of a specified section of a road. The subsidies are performance-based under contracts
concluded with Village Maintenance Committees (VMC). The VMCs are part of the Government structure
and represents a cluster of villages along a road. VMC-based routine maintenance is introduced on all
maintainable local roads in the seven provinces. VMCs, who so wish and are able, can also undertake
labour-based periodic maintenance on roads with low traffic volumes.

A supplementary model named Community Road Model (CRM) is being developed for improvement,


                                                    - 28 -

rehabilitation, or construction of means of basic access (roads/tracks or river-based), taking into account
the aspect of right-based approach, community participation, transparency, true sense of ownership, and
bottom-up approach. CRM assumes that the communities are willing to provide substantial inputs of
labour into improvement and future maintenance of their basic access. CRM builds on the road module of
the Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning (IRAP) of ILO for planning and prioritisation and is referred to
as Participatory Rural Transport Planning (PRTP). PRTP measures perceived benefits of the population in
the influence area of a potential road and rank the road candidates. This makes CRM a potentially excellent
model for developing and sustaining basic access for communities where no or only limited and light
through-traffic can be anticipated.

6.      Project Related Documents and Joint Supervision.            Sida's impression is that exchange of
information from all parties has improved over time, but is still more ad hoc than regular. Mission
schedules have been exchanged regularly and a few joint field supervisions have been made. Tripartite
meetings have been held. Sida has had problems to cope with the work of the large bank teams. Both joint
supervision and the meetings would benefit from being more efficiently structured in the future.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Management Effectiveness. Percentage of            Overloaded vehicles reduced to 27% of       27%
vehicles overloaded on the NRN is less than vehicles weighed.
40%



Financial Sustainability. Domestic revenues, 23%                                               30%
including those recovered directly from road
users, allocated for the maintenance of the
maintainable NRN and LRN maintenance
meets the needs at 35% by end of project.

Physical Conditions - Road Users                                                               No increase in IRI (sample of First Year
Satisfaction. Average International                                                            Periodic Maintenance Roads - baseline data
Roughness Index (IRI) of the current                                                           of 4.7 IRI; end-of-project data of 4.7 IRI)
maintainable NRN (3,700 km) does not
increase by more than 10%




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
The initial fuel levy of 40Kips/liter is increased Kip 135/liter                               Partially completed. One increase from 40
by 50% per year, plus inflation, for the first                                                 Kip/liter to 60 Kip/liter was approved during
three years.                                                                                   project implementation in October 2003 and
                                                                                               from 60 Kip/liter to 100 Kip/liter at the end of
                                                                                               the project (January 2005).


1,100 km of national roads and 300 km of           Periodic Maintenance:                       Completed.
local roads in four selected provinces are         1,940 km on NRN; 822 km LRN                 Periodic Maintenance: 1,940 km on NRN;
subject to periodic maintenance.                                                               822 km LRN



Maintainable sections of the NRN (3,700 km Routine Maintenance:                                Completed. Routine Maintenance:
during MP-1; 4,100 km during MP-2, 4,700           NRN (6,105 km during MP-1; 6,316 km         NRN (6,105 km during MP-1; 6,316 km
km during MP-3) and LRN (750 km during             during MP-2; 7,012 km during MP-3; Total of during MP-2; 7,012 km during MP-3; Total of
MP-1; 900 km during MP-2, 1,100 km during 19,343 km)                                           19,343 km)
MP-3) are subject to routine maintenance           LRN (1,685 km during MP-1; 1,895 km         LRN (1,685 km during MP-1; 1,895 km
works                                              during MP-2; 2,105 km during MP-3; Total of during MP-2; 2,437 km during MP-3; Total of
                                                   5,685 km)                                   6,017 km)


Percentage of vehicles overloaded on the           Overloaded vehicles reduced to 27% of       Completed. Overloaded vehicles reduced to
NRN is less than 40%                               vehicles weighed.                           27% of vehicles weighed.


GOL FY2003/2004 routine and periodic               RMS was applied in evaluating the MP-4      Partially completed. The system was not in
maintenance programs are prioritized using         program for FY2004/2005.                    place to conduct a full economic evaluation
the Road Management System                                                                     for the preparation of the MP-3 program
                                                                                               (FY2003/2004). An updated planning and
                                                                                               programming system was utilized in
                                                                                               preparation of the MP-4 program
                                                                                               (FY2004/2005).


Annual maintenance program for                     Annual maintenance program for MP-4         Completed. Annual maintenance program for
FY2002/2003 is reviewed and approved by            generated from the RMS was reviewed and     MP-4 generated from the RMS was reviewed
the Road Maintenance Fund Advisory Board approved by the RMFAB.                                and approved by the RMFAB.

The RMFAB makes public its FY2001/2002             Publication of the 2002/2003 RMFAB          Completed. Publication of the 2002/2003
annual report including its financial audit.       accounts and audits were released.          RMFAB accounts and audits were released.




                                                                      - 30 -

The Project Monitoring Report (PMR) are          Quarterly Reports were prepared and          Completed. FM Reports were submitted
produced by the financial management             submitted to IDA.                            regularly throughout; and full Project
system.                                                                                       Quarterly Reports were submitted from 2003
                                                                                              onward.
Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES) is        The system is operational in four provinces, Partially completed. The system is
operational in the four selected provinces.      further improvement is provided under the    operational in four provinces, further
                                                 RMP2.                                        improvement is provided under the RMP2.
National strategy for development of the         Discussion note prepared.                    Not completed. A framework exists for the
domestic contracting and consulting industry                                                  development of an Association for the
is developed                                                                                  domestic contracting and consulting industry,
                                                                                              but has not been operationalized due to
                                                                                              political constraints.

Village Maintenance Committees are               Four (4) Village Maintenance Committees      Completed. Four (4) Village Maintenance
established in at least one district in the four established.                                 Committees established.
selected provinces.

1End of project




                                                                   - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A.1 Periodic Maintenance                                    25.09           32.08            122.1
A.2 Routine Maintenance                                     10.69             5.72            45.4
A.3 Heavy Transport Management                               2.85             2.96            95.8
B.1 Road Maintenance System                                  0.61             1.11           139.3
B.2 Road Maintenance Fund                                    0.50             0.17              34
B.3 Project Preparation, Execution & Monitoring              0.72             0.31            43.7
B.4 Contracting & Consulting Industry                        0.02             0.00               0
B.5 Road Users                                               0.05             0.00               0


Total Baseline Cost                                         40.53           42.35
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.40
 Price Contingencies                                         3.87
                         Total Project Costs                47.80           42.35
                  Total Financing Required                  47.80           42.35


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            25.66         0.34          14.92        40.92
                                  (0.00)          (23.10)      (0.31)          (0.00)       (23.41)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.51          0.82          1.33
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.46)          (0.00)       (0.46)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.71          4.02          4.73
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.71)          (0.00)       (0.71)
4. Operating Cost                  0.00             0.00         0.82          0.00          0.82
a. Auditing Services              (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.42)          (0.00)       (0.42)
b. Other
   Total                           0.00            25.66         2.38          19.76        47.80
                                  (0.00)          (23.10)      (1.90)          (0.00)       (25.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            27.06        0.00           7.90        34.96
                                  (0.00)          (25.06)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (25.06)
2. Goods                           0.51            0.18         0.30           0.97         1.96
                                  (0.51)          (0.18)       (0.30)         (0.00)       (0.99)



                                                - 32 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.38             4.75              5.13
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (0.38)
   4. Operating Cost                       0.00               0.00              0.16             0.14              0.30
   a. Auditing Services                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.16)            (0.00)           (0.16)
   b. Other
      Total                                0.51              27.24              0.84             13.76            42.35
                                          (0.51)            (25.24)            (0.84)            (0.00)           (26.59)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A.1 Periodic Maintenance      24.11         2.75         2.45       25.13         2.48       4.47       104.2     90.2    182.4
A.2 Routine Maintenance        0.04        13.37         0.00        0.00         4.85       0.87        0.0      36.3      0.0
A.3 Heavy Transport            0.16         0.33         2.58        0.78         0.00       2.18       487.5     0.0      84.5
Management
B.1 Road Maintenance           0.17         0.02         0.45        0.24         0.02       0.85       141.2    100.0    188.9
System
B.2 Road Maintenance           0.27         0.03         0.24        0.13         0.04       0.00       48.1     133.3      0.0
Fund
B.3 Project Preparation,       0.26         0.01         0.49        0.31         0.00       0.00       119.2     0.0       0.0
Execution & Monitoring
B.4 Contracting &              0.00         0.00         0.02        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Consulting Industry
B.5 Road Users                 0.00         0.00         0.05        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0




                                                          - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic evaluation undertaken as part of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was limited into an
economic evaluation of the first year periodic maintenance works program on the National Roads Network
plus guideline on threshold values for DOR to refer to in the preparation of later stages of the multi-annual
program. The PAD selection of contracts in the National Roads Network was based upon the 10-year
Rolling Maintenance Plan prepared during project preparation and which used economic selection criteria
based on the Bank-endorsed Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). Selection of
contracts in the Local Roads Network for MP-1 was based on experience and knowledge of the territory.

The intention in the PAD was that selection of contracts to be executed under MP-2 and MP-3 would be
based on the output of the pavement management system to be made operational during the first year of
RMP-1 operation. The introduction of the pavement management system was however delayed and it was
only made operational during 2004, the latest year of MP-3. The road pavement management system was
therefore utilized for the MP-4 preparation, in mid 2004.

First Year Periodic Maintenance Works Program for the National Road Network

The National Roads Network first year periodic maintenance works program (MP-1) economic evaluation
presented on the PAD appraised nine roads with a total length of 320 km and an average length of 36 km.
Table 1 presents the road section evaluated at appraisal.

                                      Table 1 First Year Periodic Maintenance Works
       Road            Provincial                                                                      Length
       No.    Region   DCTPC          Section From/To                                                  (km)
       1B     North    Phongsaly      Paknamnoy-Banyo Km : 64+000 ­ 109+000 Ban. Bouantai - Ban. Yo     45
       17     North    Louangnamtha   Namtha-Meuangsing Km : 9+000 ­ 34+000                             30
       13S    Central  Bolikhamsay    VMUC bdr.-Khammouane bdr. Km : 94+000 - 144+000                   50
       1C     Central  Louangprabang  Pakmong-Houaphanh Bdr. Km : 80+000-112+000&125+000-144+000        50
       4      Central  Sayabouly      Saybouly-Paklay Km : 45+000 - 60+000 and Km : 89+000 - 109+000    40
       10     Central  Vientiane      VTE-Phonhong Km : 78+000 - 93+000                                 15
       13S    South    Khammouane     Bolikhamsay bdr.-Savannakhet bdr. Km : 320+960 - 351+250          20
       16E    South    Champasak      Pakse-Paksong Km : 30+000 - 50+000                                20
       5B     Central  Saisomboun     Houay Mor-Saisomboun Km : 0+000 - 50+000                          50
       Total                                                                                            320




Three roads are unpaved roads resurfaced with gravel and six roads are paved roads resurfaced with
reseals. The total cost for the nine sections was estimated at appraisal at US$ 5.0 million (US$ 1.4 million
for regravelling works and US$ 3.6 million for resealing works). The program costs were dominated by the
VMUC Bdr.-Khammouane Bdr. and the Pakmong-Houaphanh Bdr projects with some 37 percent of the
program value. The average cost at appraisal for regravelling works was US$ 10,350 per km and for
resealing works was US$ 19,750 per km.

Table 2 presents the costs estimated at appraisal and the actual costs estimated for the ICR taking into
consideration bid prices, corrections for domestic inflation (8.6 percent in 2001 and 10.6 percent in 2002)
and some cost overruns throughout the years of RMP-1 operation. The ex-post costs are on average 16
percent lower than the appraisal costs, in 2004 US$ terms, due mainly to bid prices that have been lower
than the intervention costs that were calculated during appraisal. The average actual cost for regravelling
works is US$ 8,588 per km and for resealing works is US$ 16,686 per km.




                                                          - 34 -

                                Table 2 First Year Periodic Maintenance Road Works Costs
                                                                                                        Ex-
                                                                      Ex-Ante              Ex-Post      Post/
                                                                                                        Ex-
                                                Road              Cost      Cost       Cost      Cost   Ante
        Section                                 Work             (MUS$)   (US$/km)   (MUS$)   (US$/km)  Ratio
        Paknamnoy-Banyo                         Regravelling      0.41     9,044       0.34     7,482   0.83
        Namtha-Meuangsing                       Resealing         0.70     23,333      0.65     21,828  0.94
        VMUC bdr.-Khammouane bdr.               Resealing         0.86     17,200      0.71     14,289  0.83
        Pakmong-Houaphanh Bdr.                  Resealing         0.98     19,500      0.81     16,199  0.83
        Saybouly-Paklay                         Regravelling      0.44     11,000      0.37     9,139   0.83
        VTE-Phonhong                            Resealing         0.29     19,500      0.24     16,214  0.83
        Bolikhamsay bdr.-Savannakhet bdr.       Resealing         0.39     19,500      0.31     15,355  0.79
        Pakse-Paksong                           Resealing         0.39     19,500      0.32     16,208  0.83
        Houay Mor-Saisomboun                    Regravelling      0.55     11,000      0.46     9,143   0.83
        Total                                                     5.00                 4.21
        Average                                                            16,620               13,984  0.84




Table 3 presents the Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) estimated at appraisal and the estimated traffic
in 2004 for five roads where current traffic counts are available. The program included a mix of highly
trafficked and low trafficked roads, lowest AADT being 56 vpd (for a gravel road) and highest being 1,795
vpd (for a paved road). The average traffic estimated at appraisal was 500 vehicles per day across nine
projects, but this was skewed by the very high traffic on a single project (in Vientiane Province). The
average traffic estimated at appraisal was 388 vehicles per day, if this single project (VTE-Phonhong) is
excluded from the total. A strict traffic comparison, section by section, of the 2004 traffic data and the
PAD estimates can not be made because the PAD traffic have been taken from simplified counts as proper
traffic counts were only introduced in 2001, in connection with the Road Condition Survey. Before that
period, counts were carried out on an ad hoc basis and generally for specific purposes. Globally, the traffic
in 2004 is on average 90 percent of the appraisal estimates on the five roads where a comparison is
somewhat possible, which indicates that the daily traffic or the traffic growth rate was somewhat
overestimated at appraisal.

                               Table 3 First Year Periodic Maintenance Works Daily Traffic
                                                                      Ex-Ante   Ex-Post    Ex-Post/
                                                                        2000     2004      Ex-Ante
                     Section                                           AADT      AADT       Ratio
                     Paknamnoy-Banyo                                    75         71       0.95
                     Namtha-Meuangsing                                  222       109       0.49
                     VMUC bdr.-Khammouane bdr.                          900       932       1.04
                     Pakmong-Houaphanh Bdr.                             225
                     Saybouly-Paklay                                    80
                     VTE-Phonhong                                      1,795     1,171      0.65
                     Bolikhamsay bdr.-Savannakhet bdr.                  850      1,169      1.38
                     Pakse-Paksong                                      300
                     Houay Mor-Saisomboun                               56
                     Average                                            500       690       0.90




No comprehensive economic evaluation was prepared by DOR to assist with an estimation of post-project
economic performance for the first year work program. It was found that, although the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM-4) had been extensively utilized by the Planning and
Technical Division (PTD) consultants to prepare MP-4 and later years' works programs, there is little in
house capability of HDM-4 by local experts at DOR and the HDM-III model output used for the
pre-project preparation of MP-1 is unavailable. Therefore, a simplified ex-post economic evaluation was
done for the ICR by the Bank by first replicating the PAD ex-ante economic evaluation on an Excel
workbook model, considering the project costs, daily traffic, expected roughness reduction and



                                                          - 35 -

corresponding road user costs savings (vehicle operating costs plus passenger's time savings). The second
step was to rerun the Excel economic evaluation model with ex-post actual project costs and daily traffic
set to 90 percent of the appraisal estimates to take into account the indication that the actual traffic is less
than what was estimated at appraisal. Unit road user costs with and without the project were evaluated
using the HDM-4 relationships. Table 4 presents current typical unit road user costs for Lao.

                              Table 4 Typical Unit Economic Road User Costs (US$/vehicle-km)
                  Roughness                                         Light  Medium     Heavy   Articulated
                    (IRI)     Motorcycle   Car     Pickup    Bus    Truck    Truck    Truck     Truck
                      2         0.03       0.20     0.18     0.38   0.17     0.27      0.45      0.59
                      4         0.03       0.20     0.18     0.39   0.17     0.28      0.47      0.62
                      8         0.03       0.23     0.22     0.49   0.21     0.34      0.57      0.73
                     10         0.03       0.25     0.25     0.56   0.24     0.38      0.63      0.81
                     12         0.04       0.28     0.27     0.64   0.26     0.42      0.70      0.89
                     14         0.04       0.30     0.30     0.71   0.28     0.45      0.76      0.97
                     16         0.04       0.33     0.32     0.78   0.31     0.49      0.83      1.05




Roughness surveys have been undertaken by DOR on National Roads in 2001 and in 2004. Table 5
presents the measured roughness in 2001 and 2004 for the six paved roads. The remainder three roads are
unpaved roads where roughness measurements are not available.                       A strict comparison of pre- and
post-projects IRI's for the MP-1 sections has not in all cases been possible. For the six MP-1 projects,
there was no real net change in IRI's over the three years; some projects had improved IRI's whilst other
had slightly worsened IRI's. The average roughness in 2004 is 4.7 IRI, which is about the same as the
average roughness in 2001, despite the fact the normal roughness progression over time from 2001 to 2004
due to traffic and the environment. This indicates the positive impact of the project in reducing overall the
roughness progression of pave roads with resealing works.

                                 Table 5 First Year Periodic Maintenance Works Roughness
                                                                      Ex-Ante   Ex-Post   Ex-Post
                                                                       2001      2004       per
                        Section                                         IRI       IRI     Ex-Ante
                        Paknamnoy-Banyo
                        Namtha-Meuangsing                               7.4       5.0       0.68
                        VMUC bdr.-Khammouane bdr.                       2.7       2.5       0.93
                        Pakmong-Houaphanh Bdr.                          7.7       9.4       1.23
                        Saybouly-Paklay
                        VTE-Phonhong                                    3.5       4.7       1.34
                        Bolikhamsay bdr.-Savannakhet bdr.               3.9       3.7       0.94
                        Pakse-Paksong                                   3.2       2.7       0.84
                        Houay Mor-Saisomboun
                        Average                                         4.7       4.7       0.99




Table 6 presents the ex-ante and ex-post economic evaluation results. The ex-ante economic evaluation
yielded and overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 30 percent, with three projects having a marginal
rate of return between 13 percent and 15 percent. The ex-post economic evaluation shows a satisfactory
economic justification of the project road investments, due to the fact that the lower ex-post traffic was
somewhat compensated by the lower ex-post intervention costs. All road sections have an ERR higher than
12 percent including the three project with marginal rates of return. The economic rates of return vary from
14 percent to 103 percent and the overall project ERR is 33 percent.




                                                           - 36 -

                            Table 6 First Year Periodic Maintenance Works Economic Evaluation
                                                                      Ex-      Ex-         Ex-
                                                                     Ante      Post      Post/
                                                                                           Ex-
                                                                     ERR       ERR        Ante
                         Section                                      (%)      (%)       Ratio
                         Paknamnoy-Banyo                              48%      53%        1.11
                         Namtha-Meuangsing                            15%      14%        0.98
                         VMUC bdr.-Khammouane bdr.                    24%      27%        1.12
                         Pakmong-Houaphanh Bdr.                       13%      15%        1.16
                         Saybouly-Paklay                              51%      55%        1.10
                         VTE-Phonhong                                 95%      103%       1.08
                         Bolikhamsay bdr.-Savannakhet bdr.            44%      51%        1.15
                         Pakse-Paksong                                15%      17%        1.15
                         Houay Mor-Saisomboun                         27%      31%        1.13
                         Overall                                      30%      33%        1.11




First Year Periodic Maintenance Works Program for the Local Road Network

The Local Roads Network first year periodic maintenance component extend to some US$ 0.6 million
across 9 projects; however the individual projects were not subject at appraisal to economic evaluation. The
average intervention cost was less than US$ 4,000 per kilometer. No pre-project economic evaluation was
undertaken for routine maintenance works, because of the nature of these low cost interventions and their
high levels of economic benefits.




                                                          - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/21/1999                4    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              04/05/2000                6    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PAVEMENT
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/13/2000                5    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                             (1); TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PAVEMENT
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASST. (1)


 Supervision

              05/04/2001                3    LEAD HIGHWAY ENGINEER            S               S
                                             (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              09/21/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              05/18/2002                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
              10/15/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER, ENG            S               S
                                             (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); LEAD ECONOMIST (1)
              04/04/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
              10/23/2003                5    TTL, HIGHWAY ENGR, PAS           S               S
                                             (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); RURAL
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE S (1);



                                              - 38 -

                                            HUMAN RESOURCE DEVEL
                                            (1); SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               04/01/2004            11     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                            SR. TRANS. SPECIALIST (1);
                                            SR. HWY ENGINEER (1); SR.
                                            SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                            ENVIRON SPLST (1);
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPECLST
                                            (3); SR. TRANSPORT SPCLST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                                            SPCLST (1)

 ICR
               10/26/2004             2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    HS
                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            26.5                         196.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 27.6                         195.0
  Supervision                           23.6                         145.7
  ICR                                     5.7                          24.1
  Total                                 83.4                         561.6




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy for Lao People's Democratic Republic. World Bank Report No. 19098-LA.
March 30, 1999.

Project Appraisal Document. Road Maintenance Project. World Bank Report No. 21773-LA. January 31,
2000.

Technical Audit 2002. Road Maintenance Project/Third Highway Improvement Project. Ministry of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction. June 2003.

The Road Maintenance Procedures for Road Networks - Introduction. Ministry of Communication,
Transport, Post and Construction. Department of Roads. December 2003.

Project Appraisal Document. Road Maintenance Program (Phase 2). World Bank Report No. 29024-LA.
June 8, 2004.

Implementation Completion Report. Third Highway Improvement Project. Credit No. 2943-LA. World
Bank Report No. 27285-LA. June 22, 2004.

Local Roads in LSRSP and RMP Provinces - Results from Road Condition Survey 2004. Ministry of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction and Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency. August 14, 2004.

Final Implementation Report. Road Maintenance Programme Phase 1 (RMP-1). Ministry of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction. Department of Roads. December 31, 2004.

Institutional Capacity Building - Executuve Summary. Road Maintenance Program (Phase 2). NDLea
Consultants. January 2005.

Technical Audit 2004. Road Maintenance Project. Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction. January 2005.

World Bank Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports (April 2000 - October 2004).




                                                - 42 -

                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 34124

 100°                                       102°                                    104°                                                              100°             105°                    110°

                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA
                      CHINA
                                                                                                                                                           LAO
                                                                                                                                  MYANMAR                 PEOPLE'S              Gulf
                                                                                                                                                        DEM. REP.                                  20°
                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                    Vientiane                 Tonkin

22 °                                                                                                       22 °
                                          1A


              (M2)              (M1)                                                                                                                 THAILAND
                                            19  Phongsaly                           VIETNAM                         15°
                                                                                                                     Andaman                                                                       15°
                                               PHONGSALY                                                                                                                              VIETNAM
                                            1B
MYANMAR                                                                 G2
                                                                                                                            Sea                                CAMBODIA
                                                          2E
                       17                                                   G1                                                                                                                       21°
                         Luang
                       Namtha                                                                                       10°                                Gulf
                        LUANG        Muang                                                                                                              of
              BOKEO    NAMTHA            Sai                                          Sam
                                               13N                                                                                                   Thailand
    Mekong                                                                           Neua
                    3
               Ban                 OUDOMSAI                                                                                                 100°                   105°                    110°
                                                                                                 6
               Huaisai              2W                             1C
       Chiang                                          LUANG
          Kong                                        PRABANG                          HOUAPHAN                                                     106°               This map was produced by
20°                        Pak Beng                                                                                                                                    the Map Design Unit of The
                                      Mekong        Luang                                                                                                              World Bank. The boundaries,
                                          4B                                                                                                                           colors, denominations and
                      SAYABOURY                     Prabang     XIANG                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                              KHOANG                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                       the part of The World Bank
                                    4A                                    7
                                                               Xiang                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                       legal status of any territory,
                   (M3)      Sayaboury                       Khoang                              (P1)                                                                  or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                       a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                     13N                                             G3                                                                boundaries.
  THAILAND                                  Vang Vieng                 5
                                           VIENTIANE          Xisomboun             1D
                  (M4)                                       XAISOMBOUN                                                                                                   GULF
                                   4
                                                Pone                                   BOLIKHAMSAI
                                 Mekong                                        Paksane
                                               Hong         Nam Ngum                                                                                                         OF
                                                             Reservoir                Namkading                                 G6
                                                          10

                                            11                          (M5)   (P3)   Mekong13S           8                                                            TONKIN
18°                         Sanakham                               Thanaleng                                                                                                                       18°
                                           VIENTIANE         A12                                     Ban
                                                                  PREFECTURE OF    G5
                                                                                                    Nongsu    1E                                   (M10)

                      Kenethao            (M7)
                                                   (P2)           VIENTIANE          (M8)               KHAMMOUANE
                                                         (M6)                                                                   12
                                                                 G4                                     Thakhek
                                                                                          (P4)


                    LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                            (M9)                                                             (M12)
                                                                                                                                         1F
                ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
                                                                                                       9A
                                                                                            Keng Kabao
                                                                                                              Seno             9
                        PERMANENT WEIGHSTATIONS                                          Savannakhet
                                                                                                          9B  Ban   SAVANNAKHET                                                   G7

                        MOBILE WEIGHSTATIONS                                                                   Laksamsipha
                                                                                               (M11)
                                                                     AIRPORTS
                        EXISTING WEIGHSTATIONS                                                        (P5)                                             1G
                                                                                                                                                                  15
16°                                                                  SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                16°
                        PROJECT PROVINCES                                                                                                                                                     G9
                                                                     PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS                 G8                              SALAVANE
                                                                                                                                                        15     Salavane                    (M17)
                        PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS                           NATIONAL CAPITALS                          (M15)
                                                                                                                                                            1H
                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                           Sekong
                        HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                           SEKONG
                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES             (P7)                                        20
                                                                                                                                                            16
                        OTHER ROADS                                                                                              16                           16B
                                                                                                           (P6)   Champassak                                         1I
                                                                                                                                                     CHAMPASAK
                        BORDER CROSSINGS
                                                                                                               (M14)                                                   Attapeu
                                                                                                                                                                                     18B          G10
                                                                                                                                                            18A     ATTAPEU
               0      50      100      150 Kilometers                                                       (M13)
                                                                                                                                             Mekong13S                1J


               0     25       50       75     100 Miles                                                                          Khong
                                                                                                                                                                  (M16)
14°                                                                                                                                                                                                14°
                                                                                                       CAMBODIA
                                            102°                                     104°

                                                                                                                                                                                              JULY 2005

