Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21773-LA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.2 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
JANUARY 31, 2001
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = Kip
1 Kip = US$.000125
US$1 = 8000 Kip
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
ADT                  Average Daily Traffic
APL                  Adaptable Program Lending
BMS                  Bridge Management System
DCTPC                Provincial Branches of MCTPC
DOR                  Department of Roads
DOR-LRD              Department of Roads - Local Roads Division
DOR-DD               Department of Roads - Disbursement Division
DOR-PMD              Department of Roads - Project Management Division
DOR-RAD              Department of Roads - Road Administration Division
DOR-PTD              Department of Roads - Planning and Technical Division
DOT                  Department of Transport
DOT-TCD              Department of Transport - Transport Control Division
FMS                  Financial Management System
GoL                  Government of Lao PDR
HDM - IV             Highway Design Model - Version IV
HTMP                 Heavy Transport Management Program
ILO                  International Labor Organization
IRAP                 Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning
IRI                  International Roughness Index
LRN                  Local Road Network
LSRSP                Lao Swedish Road Sector Project
MCTPC                Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
MES                  Monitoring and Evaluation System
NDF                  Nordic Development Fund
NRN                  National Road Network
PMS                  Pavement Management System
RMAB                 Road Maintenance Advisory Board
RMF                  Road Maintenance Fund
RMMS                 Road Maintenance Management System
RMP                  Road Maintenance Program
Sida                 Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
TMS                  Traffic Management System
UN- IAPSO            United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office
VOC                  Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager/Director:    Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Denis Robitaille



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 10
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          18
4. Indications of borrower conumitmnent and ownership                                19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          20
2. Financial                                                                         20
3. Technical                                                                         21
4. Institutional                                                                     21
5. Environmental                                                                     22
6. Social                                                                            23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    26



2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         52
Annex 4: Economic Evaluation Summary of the Periodic Maintenance Component               54
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               58
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     76
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            80
Annex 11: Safeguards Policies, Social and Environmental Issues Summary                   82
Annex 12: Impact on Poverty Reduction                                                    89
Annex 13: Road Maintenance Fund Summary                                                  96
Annex 14: Letter of Development Program                                                 101
Annex 15: Memorandum of Agreement between MCTPC and DCTPCs                              110
Annex 16: Memorandum of Understanding between Sida and IDA                              116
Annex 17: Organization Chart of Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction  118
MAP(S)
IBRD 31241 - Lao PDR: Road Maintenance Project



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
ate: February 22, 2001                            Team Leader: Denis Robitaille
ountry Manager/Director: Ian C. Porter             Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
roject ID: P064821                                Sector(s): TH - Highways, TR - Rural Roads
,ending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)   Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
rogram Financing Data;,;"'
//>- t?: < >;?t 8?° t9 #4~~~i'm'itEstimat
caieFinancing Plan.-ae
--APL -       K4'| wfi.>.lndicative FncigPal ^N.   Implementation Period ?ifi?RE?s Broe   i^4?
-._____           :'__                     ___     -    . :    ,!    i   (Bank   FY V
IDA             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m        US$ m        Date        Date
.PL 1       25.00    52.3    22.80        47.80    04/01/2001   12/31/2004 Lao People's Democratic
Loanl                                                                  Republic
Credit__                                           _ _ _ _  __ _ _  _ _
.PL 2       35.00    50.0    35.00        70.00    07/01/2004   12/31/2009
Loan/
Credit                    _
*otal       60.00  |      |  57.80       117.80    |            _
3roject Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [X] Credit    [ ] Grant     [ Guarantee       [ ] Other:
-or LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 25.00 equivalent
'roposed Terms: Standard Credit
3race period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
_ommitment fee: variable - maximum                      Service charge: 0.75%
)f 0.5%



Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local'        Fioreign        Ttl
BORROWER                                                      12.20           4.30          16.50
IDA                                                            7.90          17.10          25.00
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                        0.70           4.50           5.20
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                              0.20           0.90           1.: 0
COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA)
Total:                                                        21.00          26.80          47.80
Borrower: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MCTPC
Ministry of Communications, Transport, Post and Construction
Address: Lane Xang Avenue, P.O. Box 4467
Contact Person: Mr. Sommad Pholsena, Director General, Department of Roads
Tel: 856-21-412741                Fax: 856-21-414132                Email: sommad@laotel.com
Other Agency(ies):
Provinces of Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           - i      2001  2002  2003     200        2;05
Annual    0.00  |    7.00        7.00       8.00      3.00
Cumulative    0.00        7.00      14.00     22.00      25.00
Project implementation period: 3.25 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS APL PAD F- RF  M&. fOc
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the Road Maintenance Project (RMP) is to promote the sustainable preservation of road
assets through the development and implementation of financing and management maintenance systems.
The RMP follows the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) approach which was favored because this operation
assists the development of systems that can only be established progressively and over a long-term period.
The phasing of the RMP activities has chronological and geographical dimensions. RMP will include two
phases: development and initiation (RMP-1) and operation and expansion (RMP-2). During RMP-1, the
maintenance systems for the national roads network (designated henceforth as NRN) will be developed and
implemented countrywide, and the maintenance systems for the provincial, district and rural roads
(designated henceforth as local road network LRN) will be designed and tested in four selected provinces.
During RMP-2, the maintenance systems for the NRN and LRN will be refined, taking into account the
lessons learned during the first phase, and will be gradually implemented in all 17 provinces and one
special zone of the country.
Note 1: The definition of roads used in the Project Appraisal Document are administrative and in accordance with the Road Law (PD No 1 2/PO on
04/26/99). National Roads include roads connecting the national capital to the provincial and special zone capitals, roads to intemational borders,
roads of national importance with regards to socio-economic and defense-security purpose; Provincial Roads include inter-provincial roads, roads
connecting provincial capital to district centers, river ports, tourist and important historic sites; District Roads include inter-district roads and roads
connecting district centers to the villages, river ports, tourist and historic sites of the district; and Rural Roads include roads connecting villages to
villages and to various production and service centers of the villages. The Road Law also defines Urban Roads as roads within a designated urban area
and Special Roads as roads used specifically for the production and service of a sector of activities, the national defense and security and the forest
preservation zone.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Road Maintenance Project is to develop and implement financing and management
systems for the sustainable maintenance of the NRN countrywide, and to design and test, in four selected
provinces, financing and management systems for the sustainable maintenance of the LRN.
The project would achieve the following main outputs:
*    Additional financial resources for road maintenance are mobilized and efficiently allocated;
*    Capacity of institutions dealing with road maintenance activities at central, provincial and local
level is strengthened (including road sector organizations, contracting/consulting industry and road
users/beneficiaries); and
*    Overloading of vehicles is reduced.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Ainex 1)
The proposed key performance indicators are as follows:
Table A.1 - Program Key Indicators
Base value    End of RMP-1   End of RMP-2
Management Effectiveness
Percentage of vehicles overloaded on the              70%                  40%                     15%
NRN
-3-



Financial Sustainability
Domestic revenues, including those recovered
directly from road users, allocated for the  7%              40%               90%
maintenance of the maintainable NRN and
LRN meets the needs at:
Physical Conditions - Road Users
Satisfaction
Average Intemational Roughness Index (IRI)  BLV*             10%               20%
of the currently maintainable NRN (3,700
,km) does not increase by more than:
* Base Line Value will be established by Road Condition Survey that will be carried out between February-July 2001
under the IDA-financed Third Highway Improvement Project. The maintainable sections of the NRN are defined under
Annex 2.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19098              Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/30/99
In support of the overarching objective of poverty reduction, the FY2000-FY2002 Country Assistance
Strategy focuses on, among other goals, rural and national infrastructure, and in particular the development
and maintenance of the road infrastructure to increase production efficiency and access to social services.
This project will support the CAS objectives by: (i) reducing transport cost for goods and passengers; (ii)
increasing travel mobility of population in general; (iii) offering opportunities for travel time savings in
productive and/or leisure activities for project beneficiaries; (iv) improving access to markets, school and
health centers; and (v) mobilizing revenues to maintain roads.
Recognizing the critical need to sustain road access in the rural areas, the project was retained in the Base
Case Lending Scenario of the approved CAS. This is an unusual occurrence for an infrastructure project
which shows the great importance the World Bank country team has recognized in this operation.
The choice of an APL instrument was made to permit the World Bank's engagement over time in nurturing
the capacity and supporting institutional reforms to attain project objectives. Moreover the future ODA
support for road infrastructure would be more effective since a framework for infrastructure preservation
would be in place.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Road Network - Road is the dominant mode of transportation in Lao PDR. About 65 percent of freight
traffic and 90 percent of all passenger traffic is carried by road (river transport carries most of the
remaining share of freight). The development and the conservation of the road network is critical to
national and regional integration and to the overall socioeconomic development of the country. At the end
of the 1980s, the road network was in a state of total disrepair. The roads, already shattered during the
Indochina war, further deteriorated due to lack of funding and inadequate maintenance management. The
main national travel corridors used to close during the rainy season and some sections barely remained
passable during the dry season.
In the past decade, the Government accorded high priority to the development of the road network. During
the first half of the 1990s, about 50 percent of the Public Investment Program (PIP) was allocated to the
road sector (mainly for the upgrading of national roads). About US$ 600 million was spent on the
-4-



rehabilitation of national and provincial networks in the 1990s. Bilateral and multilateral donors
contributed almost 80 percent of this expenditure. As a result, about 3,000 km of roads have been
improved.
Despite the investment of the last decade, the road network remains under-developed, and the existing roads
in poor condition. Only about 38 percent of the national road network is considered in good or fair
condition. The country has only 20 percent of its entire road network paved and only a third of these roads
are in good or fair condition. Most of the provincial and district road networks consist of tracks that are
impassable during the rainy season. Many villages have no access to social services and markets, even
during the dry season.
Moreover, the roads which were rehabilitated or reconstructed during the first half of the last decade are
deteriorating at a faster rate than expected. For instance, roads rehabilitated 4 to 6 years ago require a
level of repair that would normally be expected after 10 years. This is caused by several factors including
frequent landslides, heavy axle loads of vehicles, defective pavement design and use of defective pavement
material, poor quality of construction, and inadequate maintenance.
Table B.1 - Road Inventory and Conditions in Lao PDR (kin)
Road Category
Condition       National             Provincial       Urban/District/Rural    Total (Km)
Paved Gravel Earth   Paved Gravel Earth   Paved Gravel >Earth
Good          754   232   120       21   860   563      288   309   910         4,057
Fair          646   619   344      101   302   845       47   472  2,100        5,477
Poor        1,149   581   478       47   233  1,502      39   636  2,520        7,185
Bad         1,041   503   553      503   930  1,784      20   400  1,470        7,204
Total ( Kmi)  3,591  1,935  1,495  672  2,325  4,694   394  1,816  7,000       23,922
Although the need to improve the road network to all-weather standards (particularly for provincial, district
and rural routes) is substantial, the sector priority is to preserve the roads that were rehabilitated in the last
decade (essentially national roads). The problem posed by deferred and insufficient maintenance needs to
be addressed immediately to break the rapid road deterioration cycle mentioned above. Any policy
supporting further expansion of road network should be carefully evaluated given the current state of
maintenance.
Without any intervention, the degradation of the existing network will accelerate in the next few years,
inevitably leading to the dilapidation of the basic structure and collapse of roads. This will necessitate more
onerous rehabilitation and major repair works, that would divert the already scarce resources devoted for
the maintenance of the recently constructed roads. It would thus accelerate road deterioration and increase
transport costs for the users.
Economic Background - The vehicle fleet in Lao PDR consists of about 180,000 units including
motorcycles (80 percent), cars and lights trucks (15 percent) and trucks and buses (5 percent). Except for
areas around Vientiane and Savannakhet, the average daily traffic (ADT) on the NRN is below 1,000
vehicles, with the majority between 250-500 vehicles. On the LRN the ADT is in most cases below 75
vehicles. Each year the vehicle fleet consumes about 350 million liters of fuel, including diesel. During FY
97/98, taxes and duties related to the vehicle fleet and to fuel consumption amounted to Kip 29 billion (fuel:
Kip 10.9 billion; vehicles: Kip 17.6 billion), constituting 9 percent of GoL total internal revenues of Kip
337 billion. During the same FY, GoL allocated 17 percent, or Kip 106 billion, to the road sector out of all
its expenditures estimated at Kip 615 billion. This level of spending, which represents 3.1 percent of GDP,
is slightly higher than the regional average of about 2.5 percent, however it was justifiable considering
- 5 -



severe shortage of basic transport infrastructure. Out of this Kip 106 billion, Kip 99 billion was allocated
to construction/rehabilitation activities and only Kip 7 billion to maintenance activities. GoL contributed
only Kip 11 billion from its own revenues, Kip 8 billion for construction and major rehabilitation. The rest
came from multi- and bi-lateral development agencies.
Two main conclusions can be drawn from the FY 97/98 expenditure allocation pattern, which is similar to
the past trend. First, there is an imbalance between the direct revenues generated by the road sector (Kip 29
billion) and the local budget allocated to the maintenance and construction of the road network (Kip 11
billion). Currently, road sector revenues are allocated to the other sectors of the economy. However,
considering the current budget constraints, GoL will find it difficult to increase the share of the
consolidated budget in favor of the road sector in years to come. Second, as GoL funds allocated to
construction activities represent counterpart funds for donor-assisted projects, the Ministry is constrained
in funding road maintenance. Therefore, either additional financial resources for maintenance activities
need to be mobilized or donors need to consider reducing their capital investment support to free up
resources for maintenance. Table B.2 illustrates the current level of commitments made by active donors in
this sector.
Table B.2 - Main Donors' Commitments in Road Sector
(US$ million)
Ongoing Projects (1995-2000)     Planned Projects (2000-2005)
Source of
Funds     Rehabilitation    Maintenance    Rehabilitation    Maintenance
GoL                   9.7             4.2              9.6            10.0
ADB                 131.0             4.7            117.0             1.2
JICA/JBIC            86.1                             30.0
KfW                  10.0
OECF                                                  32.0
SIDA                 20.3             5.1             14.4             7.0
UNDP                  3.0
WBADA                5.                9                                25
Total               313.3            23.0            203.0            43.2
The Sustainability of Road Maintenance
The basic provisions and mechanisms to maintain the roads have been initiated. The sector is confronting
the following issues:
Policy and Economic Issues - In the past, GoL had focused on the reconstruction of the key axes of the
road network which were in a state of disrepair due to the war vicissitudes and resource constraints. Given
the national integration and security needs, the above policy was accorded high priority. Yet the strategic
planning did not take into account the question of maintaining the rebuilt network. Moreover, as in many
other countries, the general concept of road conservation never received popular appeal.
Financial Issues - Road maintenance has remained poorly funded. Additionally, given the absence of a
policy link between road use and its deterioration, the level of road user revenues allocated to maintenance
has never been adequate to ensure preservation of the network. The sector has consistently suffered due to
the absence of a long term financing mechanism and low allocations from the General Budget. In addition,
- 6 -



even the allocated resources for maintenance have sometimes been misappropriated for rehabilitation
works.
Institutional and Management Issues - Institutional capacity in the area of road maintenance needs to be
improved to effectively monitor, manage and execute activities in a decentralized framework. The Ministry
of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), and its provincial branches the
Departments of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (DCTPCs) have the principal
responsibility for planning, budgeting and execution of contracts. In recent years MCTPC and its division
responsible for maintenance, the Road Administration Division (RAD), have taken measures to build some
capacity with good results. Shortcomings remain in the planning, data collection and management areas. At
the provincial level, the DCTPCs lack experienced staff to manage and supervise maintenance operations
and contracts, although these functions were delegated to them as per Government's decentralization policy.
Despite the commercialization of the local contracting industry initiated in the 1990s, the industry is weak,
both in terms of human resources and use of equipment, to better execute road maintenance contracts.
Sociocultural Issues - The awareness of road users and beneficiaries regarding the importance of adequate
road maintenance is low and their participation in the sector's policy and planning activities is limited. The
involvement of the road users and of the local communities is critical to establish priorities and to identify
potential social and environmental impacts and necessary mitigating measures.
Regulatory and Operational Issues - Besides poor road maintenance, truck overloading is a major cause
of rapid road deterioration. Without appropriate axle-load regulations and controls, the efficiency of any
maintenance system is severely hampered.
Government Strategy
In June 2000, MCTPC formulated a fifteen-year strategy for the road sector, Strategic Directions for the
Development of the Road Sector, with the overarching goal to support the socio-economic development and
integration of Lao PDR. GoL involved the key stakeholders and incorporated their views in the strategy
formulation process. The main objectives of the strategy are to:
1. Develop road sector institutions and an integrated management system;
2. Improve resource allocation across the road system with high priority assigned to preserving the
existing road assets;
3. Enforce measures to prohibit overloaded vehicles;
4. Establish a sustainable source of domestic funding for the road sector;
5. Create an enabling environrment for the development of a healthy domestic contracting industry;
6. Provide "focal sites" with access to agriculture support, health and education services, and connect
all provincial and districts centers to an all-weather road network;
7. Minimize environmental and social impacts;
8. Improve traffic safety; and
9. Encourage community participation in the planing and execution of road sector activities.
To establish a modem road management system, which would assist in mobilizing adequate resources and
guarantee that funds are being used effectively for maintenance, GoL has requested assistance from the
International Development Association (IDA).
In the past two years, IDA supported a series of workshops and economic studies, and organized a
study-tour for Lao officials to Ghana and Zambia in February 1999 to better understand the features of
road sector management and the mechanisms of a user-fee based road fund. A policy workshop held in
Vientiane in June 1999 concluded that the establishment of a road maintenance fund (RMF) managed by a
- 7 -



Board with both public and private representation would be the preferred way to mobilize financial
resources for road maintenance. Road user charges may include a fuel levy and a heavy vehicle surcharge
as the two main sources of revenues. The key elements of the proposed RMF would be:
*   Funding: The road users would contribute through the RMF to the costs of maintaining the national
road network and over time increase their contribution to the full cost of maintaining the entire
network.
*   Revenues: The revenues of the RMF will be derived from user charges including a heavy vehicle
surcharge, tolls, international transit charges, funds from donors, and a surcharge or levy on the price
of gasoline and diesel fuel. The fuel levy will be over and above ordinary import duties, general sales
taxes and other charges and it will be dedicated exclusively to the RMF. The level of the fuel levy and
of the other charges will be adjusted annually by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with MCTPC
and on the advice of a Steering Committee. The revenues will be deposited directly into the Road
Maintenance Fund.
*  Application: The RMF proceeds will be applied in order of priority to: (a) emergency, routine and
periodic maintenance works, and administration; (b) rehabilitation works, only after covering the needs
for all maintenance; and (c) road safety projects and activities, when resources permit.
*  Administration: The RMF will be set up as a separate account, which will be managed by a Road
Maintenance Advisory Board (RMAB) consisting of private sector and public agency representatives.
A small Secretariat will be instituted within MCTPC for the day-to-day administration of the Road
Maintenance Fund. The RMAB will supervise, direct, and recommend matters related to the overall
management and financing of road maintenance. The members of this board will be appointed by the
Prime Minister and will include nominees from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Communication,
Transport, Post and Construction, Ministry of Commerce, Lao Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
Fuel Importer Group, Operators of Land Transport, and Operators of Land Transport for Passengers.
The Chairperson will be elected by its members. The Board will report to the Minister of MCTPC.
*  Allocation:  The maintenance funds will be allocated based on the assessed need, functional
classification and socio-economic considerations.
*  Audit and Reporting: The accounts of the Road Maintenance Fund shall be subject to annual audits
carried out by an independent auditor and in compliance with the Government audit regulations. The
board will also submit an annual report to the Prime Minister. Both reports will be made available to
the public.
GoL intends to implement a RMF because the "user pays" concept establishes a close connection between
the service provided and the payment made for the service used. As a result, road users should expect
efficient use of funds and appreciate the best trade-offs available between their vehicle operating costs and
the charges they pay. The present mechanism is not based on such a relationship and is driven by the
budgetary decisions. By keeping the revenues dedicated to road preservation separate from general tax
revenues levied on road transport, and managing the funds in a transparent manner and as a business, the
GoL distinguishes the fiduciary aspects of road management from general public expenditures.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues to be addressed by the Program
Policy and Economic Sustainability - During the project preparation, the above mentioned studies and
workshops raised GoL awareness on the need for substantial policy changes and road sector reform. The
strategic policy choice for the establishment of an adequate maintenance system is based on the relationship
- 8 -



between road use and deterioration of the road assets.
Financial Sustainability - The proposed RMF will ensure that adequate resources for maintenance
operations are mobilized, allocated and efficiently utilized. Initially, IDA funds will support periodic
maintenance activities. In due course, the level of road user charges will progressively increase according
to maintenance needs while taking into account the constraints imposed by the macroeconomic situation
(see Annex 4 for more details).
Institutional and Management Sustainability - The proposed Road Maintenance Project (RMP) will
strengthen the capacity of the administrations to plan and identify maintenance priorities as well as to
manage and supervise maintenance contracts. This will include the development of an operational Road
Management System (RMS). The RMS will include a location referencing system, inventory and road
conditions surveys, bridge and pavement management systems, and monitoring and evaluation procedures.
The project will provide support to the ongoing restructuring of the MCTPC to facilitate the coordination
of all road activities, both GoL and donor-financed. The local industry capacity will be strengthened
through a series of activities including training of management and operators, exchanges and study trips
and the establishment of a facility for equipment lease/purchase.
Sociocultural Sustainability - The broader community of road users and beneficiaries will be involved in
policy and planning activities. A road users association will be created and the direct participation of the
conmunuities in road maintenance planning and execution will be fostered. This process will be
complementary to the ongoing UNDP-supported Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning (IRAP) activities.
Regulatory and Operational Sustainability - Regulatory changes will be implemented to ensure
commercial and transparent operation of the RF. In addition, axle load control will be irnplemented by
the newly created Transport Control Division (TCD) and supported by new regulations regarding licensing
fees and overloading fines.
Strategic Choices
Preservation/Maintenance vs. Provision/Construction - Although there are still considerable needs to
increase accessibility, especially in rural areas, the proposed RMPwill focus on the preservation of the
assets which were rehabilitated during the last decade. According to the Operations Evaluation Departmnent
(OED), road maintenance is a highly productive expenditure with an estimated average economic rate of
return of 38.6 percent compared with an average of 26 percent for all transport projects and 21 percent for
all Bank investment projects (Heggie and Vickers 1998). The main development agencies involved in the
Lao PDR road sector still plan to allocate their support to the rehabilitation of roads, especially on the
LRN. Any additional resources to this pool of capital investment without an appropriate maintenance
financing and management system in place would jeopardize the sustainability of both new and past
investments. With this view, maintenance of the rehabilitated road network is more important and crucial.
Road Fund vs. Budgetary Allocation - The decision to introduce a RMF is based on a practical and
systematic assessment of the context and of the available options for reconciling the micro- and
macroeconomic objectives (Gwilliam and Shalizi, 1998). Two broad options are available. The first option
consists of commercializing the road sector through the creation of an independent road management
authority. A first step in this direction consists in establishing a road fund with a revenue stream based on
road user charges and managed by an independent road board. In the long-term, a road agency operating
on commnercial basis could be established, but this objective is too amnbitious given the current political
context and is outside the scope of this program. The second option would be to reform the budgetary
process. As there is little hope that the annual budget allocation from the central treasury will fully cover
the cost of maintaining the roads and provide funds in a timely manner, the RMP proposes the introduction
-9-



of a second-generation road fund dedicated to maintenance, funded by road users charges, managed by an
advisory board with road users representation, and subject to strict auditing requirements.
Note 2: Second-generation road funds are different from the first-generation road funds which were established in several countries in the 1 960s and
70s. The first-generation were only extra-budgetary arrangements through which an earmarked stream of tax revenues was put at the disposal of the
road department The second-generation road funds are instead fumded by levies and surcharges designated as "user charges" and identified separately
from general taxation. Another important characteristic of second-generation road funds is that road users representatives participate in the
management of the funds.
Selection of Provinces -The criteria used for the selection of the four provinces under the first phase of the
program are: (i) current performance of the province in implementing the maintenance programs; (ii)
institutional and technical capabilities, size and conditions of the road network; (iii) on-going activities of
other development agencies; (iv) past involvement with IDA-financed road projects; (v) supervision needs;
and (vi) terrain conditions. Based on the above, the following provinces have been selected: Luang Namtha
and Luang Prabang in the North; and Savannakhet and Champassack in the South.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The appraisal of the second phase of the Road Maintenance Project (RMP-2) will be initiated when
MCTPC will have achieved the following objectives:
a) Financial resources, including revenues recovered directly from road users, allocated for the
maintenance of the maintainable NRN and LRN meet 35 percent of the requirernents as estimated
by the Road Management System (RMS - which should be designed and made operational during
the first year of RMP implementation in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA).
b) GOL FY 2003/2004 maintenance and investment program on NRN is prioritized using the RMS.
c) 60 percent of RMP- J Credit disbursed in accordance with the credit requirements.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A) PRESERVATION OF THE ROAD NETWORK THROUGH CIVIL WORKS
A.l) Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works (IDA-NDF-GoL-Financed). RMP will finance
periodic maintenance works (regravelling, resealing, thin asphalt overlay on paved roads and bridge decks,
bridge repairs, road marking, road signs) and rehabilitation works (thick asphalt overlay and pavement
reconstruction) on various maintainable sections of the NRN and LRN. Under RMP- 1, periodic
maintenance works will be undertaken on about 1,100 km of the NRN countrywide and on about 300 km of
the LRN in the four selected provinces (Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack).
Technical assistance will be provided to MCTPC-RAD and to the DCTPCs of the four selected provinces
to help prepare, design, supervise and monitor the related works. In addition, vehicles, office equipment and
road condition survey equipment will be provided. Finally, 38 small district offices in the four selected
provinces will be built. Under RMP-2, periodic and rehabilitation works will be financed for the priority
sections of the NRN and LRN established using RMS. Quantitative targets and related costs for RMP-2
will be defined during its preparation.
A.2) Routine Maintenance Works (Sida-GoL-Financed). RMP will finance emergency (accident
removal, landslide clearing) and routine maintenance works (vegetation control, clearing drainage, potholes
-10-



patching, edge repairs) on the maintainable sections of the NRN and LRN. Since these expenditures are
recurrent in nature, GoL will finance this component entirely through both the road maintenance fund and
the consolidated budget. Under RMP-I, routine maintenance works will be carried out on the maintainable
portions of the NRN (3,700 - 4,700 km) countrywide and on maintainable portions of the LRN (700 -
1,1 00 km) in the four selected provinces. Technical assistance will be provided to the DCTPCs of the four
selected provinces to help prepare, design, supervise and monitor the related works. Under RMP-2, routine
maintenance works will be carried out on the maintainable sections of the NRN and of the LRN in all
provinces. Quantitative targets and related costs for RMP-2 will be defined during its preparation.
A.3) Heavy Transport Management Program (NDF-GoL financed). RMP will support the
implementation of a national strategy to reduce overloading on the road network. Under RMP-1, seven (7)
permanent axle load weight stations including electronic scales will be constructed along strategic points on
the NRN; 17 laybys will be constructed along strategic points of the NRN where trucks would be weighed
by mobile electronic scales; permanent and mobile weigh-scales will be purchased; and training and
vehicles will be provided to the axle-load control patrols. Technical assistance will also be provided in
order to: (i) create a partnership between the transport industry and the Government; (ii) propose the
issuance/amendment of related regulations to set up new axle load limits, encourage the replacement of
single-axle by multi-axle trucks over time, and increase fines for overloading. An analysis of the
effectiveness of the strategy shall be carried out towards the end of RMP-I. Recommendations, if any, to
improve effectiveness of the strategy will be implemented under RMP-2.
B) BUILDING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
B.1) Complete Establishment of Road Management System (NDF-Sida-financed). RMP will complete
the development and establishment of an integrated Road Management System (RMS), which would cover
all aspects of the road planning process for the NRN and LRN. Under RMP-1, consultancy services would
be provided to the Planning and Technical Division (PTD), Road Administration Division (RAD) and
Local Roads Division (LRD) of MCTPC Department of Roads and the four selected provincial DCTPCs
to make the RMS fully operational for the NRN and to develop and test the RMS for the LRN. In
addition, RMP- 1 will finance the introduction of the Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning (IRAP) road
prioritization procedure of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in Champassack Province. Finally,
RMvIP-l will finance road condition surveys. Under RMP-2, the capacity to use the RMS for the NRN and
LRN will be developed in all remaining DCTPCs.
B.2) Assist Implementation of Road Maintenance Fund (NDF-financed). RMP will help establish a
sustainable financing mechanism for the maintenance of the NRN and LRN. Under RMP-1, consultant
services will be provided to assist the efficient operation of the Road Maintenance Fund and the Road
Maintenance Advisory Board (RMAB) and its Secretariat. Additional assistance will be provided under
RMP-2 if during its appraisal it is deemed necessary.
B.3) Improve Project Preparation, Execution and Monitoring (NDF-financed). RMP will help develop
institutional capacity to manage projects. Under RMP-1, consultant services will be provided to the Project
Monitoring Division (PMD) and Disbursement Division (DD) of the MCTPC-Department of Roads and
the DCTPCs of the four selected provinces to assist and develop intemal capacity in managing technical
and financial aspects of the projects. In addition, specific capacity building activities will be undertaken
(English language training, study tours, workshops, seminars, fellowships, and support to the newly
established Information Archive and Conference Center). Under RMP-2, similar assistance will be
provided to all other DCTPCs.
- 11 -



B.4) Develop Strategy to Improve Performance of Local Contracting and Consulting Industry
(NDF-financed). RMP will support the development of the local contracting and consulting industry.
Under RMP- 1, a strategy will first be defined and implemented jointly by MCTPC, the RMAB and the
local contracting and consulting industry. If needed, its implementation will also be supported under
RMP-2.
B. 5) Involve Road Users-Beneficaries in Road Maintenance Activities (Sida-financed). RMP will foster
the involvement of the road users and beneficiaries in the delivery and management of road maintenance
activities. Under RMP- I consultant services will be provided to help establish a road users associations and
establish and implement a strategy to involve villages of the four selected provinces in the maintenance of
their roads. Among other initiatives, the development of small-scale community contractors will also be
pursued. Similar initiatives will be supported under RMP-2.
Table C.1 - Road Maintenance Project - I
A.1 Periodic Maintenance           Highways           29.31      61.3      24.10      96.4
A.2 Routine Maintenance            Highways           13.41      28.1       0.04       0.2
A.3 Heavy Transport Management     Highways            3.08       6.4       0.16       0.6
B.1 Complete Establishment of Road   Institutional     0.63        1.3      0.18       0.7
Management System                  Development
B.2 Assist Implementation of Road  Institutional       0.55        1.2      0.27       1.1
Maintenance Fund                   Development
B.3 Improve Project Preparation,   Institutional       0.75        1.6      0.25       1.0
Execution and Monitoring           Development
B.4 Develop Strategy to Improve    Institutional       0.02       0.0       0.00       0.0
Performance of Local Contracting and   Development
Consulting Industry
B.5 Involve Road Users-Beneficaries   Decentralization  0.05      0.1       0.00       0.0
in Road Maintenance Activities
Total Project Costs                  47.80     100.0     25.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   47.80      100.0     25.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The RMP, through its various components, will introduce and support the following policy changes and
institutional reforms.
Giving maintenance priority - The paradigm shift in GoL policy means that the imbalance in allocation of
resources between new investment/rehabilitation and maintenance will be corrected on the basis of optimal
socio-economic and affordability criteria. The conservation of the existing network will receive priority
over its expansion.
Securing financing and an efficient pricing policy - The establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund
(RMF) will guarantee a regular and eventually adequate flow of funds to maintain the road network. At the
same tirne, the RMF will introduce an efficient pricing policy by directly charging road users through the
- 12 -



fuel levy in a measure proportional to the marginal cost of their journey. A full cost recovery policy will
therefore be one of the key RMP objectives.
Adopting sound business practices - The capacity strengthening and institutional restructuring actions
will allow for clarifying managerial responsibilities and objectives among the various departments and
between the center and the provinces. The introduction of an effective road management system, financial
management procedures, accounting and auditing processes will result in a more efficient expenditure of
the funds.
Involving stakeholders - Stakeholders will be involved at all levels. Road user and private sector interests
will be represented on the RMAB. Moreover, through an awareness campaign, road users at-large will be
informed on their rights, their duties and the way user charges are spent. Local conmmunities will actively
participate in establishing the priorities for maintenance and will actively contribute to it. Additionally,
GoL will initiate a more effective donor coordination process, thus avoiding overlapping of activities and
leveraging the effect of resources.
Axle Load Control - The recently created Transport Control Division (TCD) of Department of Transport
will be responsible for: (i) enforcing regulatory measures to reduce axle load weight limits through
monitoring of weigh stations; and (ii) the administration and collection of licensing fees and overloading
fines.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits from RMP implementation will have both social and economic dimensions contributing to
poverty reduction.
Social. Although the RMP does not specifically target the poorest part of the population, its benefits in
terms of poverty reduction are likely to be significant. Appropriately maintained roads could provide direct
and indirect contributions to poverty reduction, and this to a greater extent than mere new investment. The
specific impact of the RMP would depend upon the type and location of the selected roads and the present
condition of the communities which will benefit from the maintained roads provided and improved access.
As discussed more comprehensively in Annex 12, there is evidence coming from the most recent Lao
Expenditure and Consumption Surveys (LECS) of a strong relationship between accessibility and poverty.
This is apparent at a national level, with the incidence of poverty being higher in the less accessible
northem and southem regions. At a local level, the surveys provide evidence of a strong correlation
between poverty and access to social services and primary schooling. Other data from National Statistics
indicate that the incidence of poverty in rural areas is much higher for communities without road access.
Some data indicates that poverty is more prevalent among households in villages that are never accessible
by truck or only accessible in the dry season because of the poorly maintained network. Therefore,
investments in road rehabilitation and maintenance aim at alleviating one of the most serious constraints to
balanced economic development: access. And to better plan and prioritize investment and maintenance
decisions on the road system, the ILO-developed/-supported Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning
(IRAP) technique will be used under RMP. The use of IRAP will also allow maximization of
socio-economic benefits of road development through coordination with investrnents in health, education
and agriculture and close collaboration with communities ensuring that stakeholders will participate in the
planning of roads.
Improved accessibility will also reduce the perception of remoteness and isolation, thereby encouraging
staff employed in social services to visit and remain in those areas. The improved roads will help maintain
contact between provincial and district centers, and district agencies and offices will be able to adequately
fulfill their role as the core or node of service provision at district level. Improved accessibility will also
- 13 -



facilitate contact with expertise and new technologies, thus encouraging a shift from subsistence to
production of agricultural goods for sale. Moreover, the envisaged maintenance works on the secondary
road network would be based on labor-intensive techniques and would provide the rural poor with
income-earning opportunities.
Better roads will particularly help rural women who are responsible for household chores such as collecting
water and fuel, and who are more engaged than men in marketing family produce and retail trading which
require transport to the market. Better roads will also decrease the costs of social interactions for women
and foster their participation in society and economic activities.
Economic. As stated earlier under section B.3, OED concluded that road maintenance is a highly
productive expenditure with an estimated average economic rate of return of 38.6 percent. Ensuring the
preservation of road assets means that, in the future, substantial Government financial resources would not
need to be allocated to expensive rehabilitation works and therefore would not negatively affect the
development of other sectors. The stream of benefits include: (i) reduction of travel times, vehicle
operating costs, freight and passengers fares; and (ii) maintained access to social services and markets.
RMP's economic impact on poverty alleviation is also likely to be significant at a national level because it
will help bridge the economic disconnect between the center and the poorer, more remote provinces, mainly
in rural areas along the national roads and in areas where the local road maintenance activities will be
developed. The main contribution to poverty reduction would be in terms of improved access to basic
health and education facilities and other social services in the district centers and also at the village level
when the villages are in the proximity of a national road.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Insfitutional Arrangements (Sector Approach - Donor Coordination)
Considering the long-term sustainability objectives promoted by RMP, there is a need to have all main
stakeholders supporting a cormmon strategy. This strategy was defined during project preparation after
extensive consultations with all participating GoL agencies, as well as the main bi-lateral and multi-lateral
development agencies involved in the road sector. Supported by MCTPC, this was achieved successfully
and can be summarized as follows:
First, in preparation for the Roundtable Meeting held in November 2000, MCTPC developed and
announced its strategic vision for the sustainable development of the road sector. The strategy is described
in the "Strategic Directions for the Development of the Road Sector" of June 2000 (available on project
files). MCTPC developed this strategy in consultation with the three main donors in the road sector, Sida,
ADB and IDA. The strategy is fully in line with the RMP objective to preserve the rehabilitated road
network.
Second, the IDA preparation tearn established excellent rapport with Sida and ADB during project
preparation. Among the main areas of understanding and cooperation we note:
*   The preservation of the road asset as a top priority. In this regard, all main donors have recognized
the need to establish a Road Maintenance Fund and welcomed IDA's leadership. As a concrete
result of this cooperation, Sida recently joined IDA in requesting the establishment of the Road
Maintenance Fund as a condition of effectiveness of their next operation, the Lao Swedish Road
Sector Project II (LSRSP-I1). In addition, ADB included in their recently approved Rural Access
Road Project the provision of $2 million for periodic maintenance that will have to be channeled
through the Road Maintenance Fund when operational;
- 14 -



*  Annual review of portfolio so that MCTPC could better allocate its financial resources between
development and maintenance needs;
*   Exchange of documents and regular consultations;
*  No overlapping of activities; and
*  The promotion of the "One Country - One System" principle where unique management systems
are used by all (examples: the Sida-developed Financial Management System, Routine
Maintenance Management System, Monitoring and Evaluation System, NCB bidding documents,
etc.).
Third, as an additional concrete result of this close cooperation, Sida agreed to include in the LSRSP-II : (i)
the capacity building of the local authorities to manage the LRN in the four selected provinces under RMP
including development of road management systems components for the LRN; (ii) assistance to the
DCTPCs in preparing, procuring and supervising periodic maintenance works on the LRN; (iii) assistance
in the establishment and operation of financial management system for RMP and RMIvF operations. As
these activities contribute directly to meeting RMP objectives, they are indicated as Sida co-financed
activities in the project description. To confim the commitment of both organizations to work together to
establish management and financing systems for the sustainable preservation of the road network, a
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed by both organizations (ref.: Annex 16). This MoU
also establishes modalities for efficient joint execution and supervision.
Implementation Arrangements
The program will involve the following organizations:
MCTPC. The MCTPC will implement the Project. It will be achieved in a manner to maximize
capacity-building through the use of existing internal resources and administrative structures. No special
unit will be created to manage the project. The Department of Roads (DOR), the Department of Transport
(DOT), the Department of Personnel (DP) and all MCTPC provincial branches (DCTPCs) will be
involved.
DOR-PMD. In order to foster donor cooperation and improve project effectiveness, MCTPC recently
created the Project Monitoring Division (PMD) to monitor the implementation of all foreign-assisted
projects. Therefore, this unit will have the overall project monitoring function and will be responsible to
report on all project activities. In addition, the PMD will have the overall responsibility to manage the
procurement of all equipment and consultant services financed under RMP- 1.
DOR-RAD. The Road Administration Division (RAD) will: (i) plan routine maintenance works of the
NRN using the Routine Maintenance Management System (RMMS); (ii) operate and maintain the Bridge
Management System (BMS) for the NRN; (iii) prepare detailed designs and bidding documents for
periodic maintenance works on the NRN; (iv) provide technical guidance and training to the DCTPCs for
the procurement and day-to-day management of maintenance works on the NRN, including monitoring,
using the Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES); and (iv) provide training to the local contracting
industry.
DOR-PTD. The Planning and Technical Division (PTD) will be responsible for developing, operating and
maintaining the Road Management System for the NRN and LRN including the location referencing and
inventory surveys, periodic road condition surveys, traffic surveys, traffic management system, road
database, and pavement management system. It will liaise with the Sida-supported PCU and Local Roads
Division (LRD) for the development aspects of the Road Management System for the LRN.
- 15 -



DOR-DD. The Disbursement Division (DD) will be responsible for the administrative and financial
management of the project activities.
DOR-LRD. The Local Roads Division (LRD) will be responsible for implementing the Integrated Rural
Accessibility Planning (IRAP) initiative in Champassack province. It will be assisted jointly by the ILO
Advisory Support Information Services and Training (ILO-ASIST) and Sida-PCU.
DOR-Environmental and Social Unit. The Environmental and Social Unit of DOR will be responsible for
ensuring that: (i) those affected by any sub-projects are compensated, resettled and/or rehabilitated in
accordance with the Resettlement Policy and provide an annual report on the environmental and social
impacts of the works carried out under the program; and (ii) all road maintenance works are at all timnes
carried out in conformity with the Enviromnental Guidelines and otherwise in a manner which ensures that
any adverse environmental impact is effectively mitigated in a timely and satisfactory manner.
DOT-TCD. The Departmnent of Transportation - Transport Control Division (TCD) and its provincial
arms, the Transport Control Units (TCU) within the DCTPCs, will be responsible for the implementation
of the Heavy Transport Management Programn component of the project.
DCTPCs and Districts. The DCTPCs and their districts will: (i) program and plan the maintenance works
on the LRN in the selected provinces; (ii) procure and supervise the maintenance programs on the NRN and
LRN in selected provinces; (iii) report to DOR-RAD on the financial status of the project activities that
they will implement; and (iv) provide technical assistance to local communities involved in the planning and
delivery of maintenance programs on the LRN.
PD-MDD. The Manpower Development Division of the Personnel Department (PD) will be responsible for
the preparation, implementation and monitoring of human resource development activities financed by the
project.
RMAB and Secretariat. The Road Maintenance Fund will be managed by a Road Maintenance Advisory
Board (RMAB) and Secretariat which initially will report to the MCTPC Minister. The Secretariat will
consist of a small team comprising a Secretary, an Audit-Review Manager, and a Finance Manager that
will manage the day-to-day operations of the RMF. These staff will be hired locally under local market
conditions. For a limited period they will be assisted and trained by a highly experienced consultant.
Sida-PCU. Development and introduction of a financing and management system for the LRN will be
implemented under the overall management of the Sida-assisted Project Coordination Unit. Consultant
services will be provided to assist the DCTPCs, districts and villages in this regard. The Sida-financed
consultants will also help the DCTPCs and the districts prepare, procure and supervise maintenance works
on the LRN financed by IDA under RMP.
Coordination-Committee. To ensure the smooth implementation and foster coordination between activities
financed by Sida and IDA, a Coordination Committee (CC) will be created. The CC will comprise the
following members: DOR Director General, PTD Director, RAD Director, TCD Director, LRD Director,
PMD Director and Sida-PCU.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The altemative of another usual "Highway Improvement Project" with a larger component of maintenance
activities was considered but rejected. The situation of the road network in Lao PDR made it clear at the
outset that the rapid erosion of the road network was mainly due to inadequate maintenance and that this
- 16 -



issue needed to be addressed promptly, and certainly before considering any major rehabilitation or
upgrading. In addition, the consistent inadequacy of budgetary allocations for road maintenance and the
necessity to safeguard the past, ongoing and future investments in new construction and rehabilitation
implied the establishment of a road maintenance policy on a preventive rather than a curative basis. Finally,
there are currently several ongoing/committed donor-assisted projects which will rehabilitate and upgrade
an additional 1,600 km of national and about 3,000 km of local roads in the coming years. Therefore, the
need for provisions of rehabilitated roads is being addressed. IDA should envisage financing major road
rehabilitation and upgrading only when the Govemment will have in place maintenance systems that could
ensure their preservation.
The alternative of preparing a standard investment lending operation was considered and accepted, as an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) approach seemed the most appropriate instrument to assist in the
development of systems that can only be established progressively and over a long-term period. An APL
satisfies the GoL need for sustained long-term assistance. In addition, the staged implementation with
intermediate objectives - which some identified as conditionalities or triggers - introduces an element of
flexibility where continuation can be terminated if progress is not satisfactory or in case the project design
needs to be adjusted.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.. 1.... 1...... ,   , . .... , , rLatest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Projet                  (PSR) Rafings
I____________________   ________  _______    (Bank-financed prQiects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Highways construction and        Highway Improvement Project      S             S
maintenance, planning (ongoing)  III (Cr. 2943-LA)
Highways construction and        Highway Improvement Project      S             S
development of the local construction  II (Cr. 2606-LA)
industry (ongoing)
Rural Development -Roads-Water   Luang Namtha Provincial          S             S
Supply-Sanitation (ongoing)      Development (Cr. 2579-LA)
Rural Development - Roads-Water    Provincial Infrastructure (Cr.  S            S
Supply-Sanitation (ongoing)      3131-LA)
Highways rehabilitation and      Southern Transport Project (Cr.  S             S
maintenance (completed in 1994)  1846-LA)
Highways rehabilitation and      Highway Improvement Project I    S             S
maintenance (completed in 1998)  (Credit 2218-LA)
Other development agenciesr
National Roads and Feeder roads  ADB/7
rehabilitation (ongoing)
National Roads and Feeder roads  ADB/8
rehabilitation - spot imnprovements
(ongoing)
Rehabilitation of National Road 9  ADB 2000-2003
(planned)
Rehabilitation of National Road 4  FENU - UNDP
(completed)
- 17 -



Rehabilitation of National Road 13 -   LSRSP-I 1997-2000 - Sida
provincial and district roads
improvement (completed)
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of  LSRSP-II 2000-2004 - Sida
Local Roads (preparation)
Provision of local roads           ADB-Rural Access Roads
Project
Rehabilitation of Road No.8        Sida
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lao PDR Experience
To date, IDA has funded four projects dedicated to transport issues in Lao PDR, all in the highway
subsector: (i) the Southern Transport Project, which closed in 1994; (ii) the first Highway Improvement
Project, closed in 1998; (iii) the ongoing Second Highway Improvement Project (95 percent complete); and
(iv) the ongoing Third Highway Improvement Project. Overall, these projects have been successful in
developing capacity to deliver maintenance services for the NRN. The projects contributed to the
commercialization of all MCTPC construction and maintenance force account units (SOEs) and to the
introduction of competition-based procurement. The second major achievement was the establishment of
maintenance and planning procedures within the MCTPC. Assisted by external specialists, these divisions
now have the capacity to produce investment and maintenance plans for the NRN. As a result, in recent
years, the MCTPC has succeeded in obtaining specific budget allocations for routine and periodic
maintenance from MOF, a first in almost three decades.
Budgetary Allocations. However, the past performance of projects indicate that obtaining adequate and
timely budget allocations for counterpart funds remains difficult. This is partially explained by the fact that
the country was, and still is, severely affected by the regional financial crisis that started in 1997.
Nevertheless, the lack of counterpart funds has been particularly true for routine and periodic road
maintenance expenditures which have consistently fallen short of the needs. This lesson has been reflected
in project design by shifting GoL's policy towards conservation from the expansion of the network.
Local Industry. The capacity of the local contracting industry is still embryonic despite the fact that all the
projects mentioned above supported to a certain extent the creation of a local contracting capacity for road
construction and maintenance. The contractors still lack managerial expertise and financial resources. The
same applies to the very few local consulting firms. However, in the past the industry was never consulted
on their problems and needs. With the creation of a Construction Association, RMP will establish a shared
long-term development strategy and support its implementation.
Political Context. One important lesson learned from other IDA-financed projects in Lao PDR is the vital
role played by the provincial authorities (e.g.; Governors) in the management of the provincial branches of
central agencies. While the DCTPCs are official branches of the central MCTPC, they work under the
day-to-day guidance of the Governor's office. As a matter of fact, the DCTPC director is nominated by
MCTPC Minister after full consultation with the Governor. In addition, the role of the provinces has
increased in recent years due to the decentralization/devolution policy promoted by the Government. This
implies that the implementation of a common strategy and system for the maintenance of the NRN and
- 18 -



LRN under RMP will require substantial consultations and knowledge sharing.
International Experience
Some historical lessons have been drawn from the experience of the donors' community assisting the rehabilitation
of the road networks in many developing countries. Experience shows that projects often based on poorly conceived
policies that do not link appropriately road network expansion to economic and social demand result in many road
networks expanded well beyond the size and standard the country can afford to maintain. Moreover, because of
inadequate understanding of the importance of maintenance, insufficient budget was allocated to these activities. As
a result, maintenance of large road networks become an overwhelming problem in many developing countries.
Deferred maintenance leads to destruction of road pavements and to escalating transport costs. For example, in the
Sub-Saharan Africa road network, non-maintained roads resulted in the loss of one third of the capital invested.
Diversion of resources from maintenance to construction of new roads resulted in the loss of three to four
kilometers of existing road for every kilometer built and the extra costs imposed on road users, largely through
increased vehicle operating costs, was up to three times the savings on maintenance. The magnitude of the road
maintenance problem led to the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) under the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
Program (SSATP). With multi-donor support the RMI aims to establish sustainable road maintenance policies
throughout the continent.
The development of the road network in Lao PDR follows a pattern very similar to that experienced by many other
countries. The RMP builds on the above global experiences. Moreover, lessons from the RMI and other sources
show that the following conditions are required to achieve effective and efficient maintenance of roads by the
private sector: (i) provision of an adequate and stable flow of funds which facilitate provision of a predictable
workload and timely payment; (ii) adaptable bidding procedures and simple bidding documents to suit the nature of
works; (iii) accountability and transparency of the bidding process; (iv) application of incentives and sanctions as
applicable; (v) continuous monitoring and evaluation; and (vii) political and economic stability creating a climate of
confidence. Undoubtedly, the provision of an adequate and stable flow of funds is critical for successful contract
maintenance. Hence, securing reliable funding is at the heart of any reform process. Without this, other issues
affecting contract maintenance will have limited or no impact (Heggie and Vickers, 1998). To create this reliable
source of funds, many countries have recently opted for the establishment of a road fund. The so-called
second-generation road funds have been the most successful. They are based on the following principles: (i)
dedicated to maintenance; (ii) funded by additional road users charges over general taxes and duties; (iii) managed
by a board with road users representation; and (iv) subject to strict auditing requirements. These principles have
guided the establishment of the RMF supported under RMP.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Key GoL officials have actively participated in the IDA-supported workshops, economic studies and study
tours in Ghana and Zambia in February 1999. They contributed to establishing the steps and procedures
for the creation of a RMF as identified at a policy workshop held in Vientiane in June 1999. Subsequent to
these activities, GoL now sees the establishment of a RMF and the development of road management
system as a policy priority.
Moreover, a Letter of Development Program (LDP) has been endorsed jointly by MCTPC and MOF, and
transmitted to IDA as a condition of negotiation (Annex 14). This letter briefly describes RMP long-term
goals, phasing, key activities, policy and institutional achievements to be reached by stages, performance
indicators and milestones to be used to monitor and evaluate progress, triggers for moving from one phase
to another, monitoring plan, overall cost, financing plan and implementations arrangements.
- 19-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support relies on its global knowledge and its extensive involvement in the road
sector in Lao PDR. Since the mid 1980s, the World Bank has always been at the forefront of various
initiatives to address the general problem of deferred maintenance common to many developing countries.
In many instances, the Bank has coordinated bilateral/multilateral donors efforts aiming at the adoption and
implementation of a set of policies geared to sustainability and maintenance of the network, in particular
the above mentioned RMI under the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program. The Bank has
supported implementation of many successful projects centered on the establishment of a Road Fund and
on conservation of the network in various countries. Therefore, it can draw from a pool of expertise on the
subject. Moreover, the Bank's long-standing involvement in the highway sector in Lao PDR allows for a
better knowledge of the institutional and operational issues related to road maintenance and consequently
for a better judgment of the feasibility of the proposed solutions.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ mnillion; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
An economic evaluation of the Periodic Maintenance (PM) component of the RMP has been carried out
and it is summarized in Annex 4. The PM component accounts for more than 60 percent of the total
investment of Phase I, and more than 95 percent of the IDA credit.
The economic evaluation has been based on the economic analysis which was carried out in February 2000,
within the framework of the 10 Year Rolling Periodic Maintenance Plan (1OYRPMP), which aimed to
evaluate and define the basic road maintenance strategies for the NRN and identify a priority works
program. Given its peculiar nature, the PM component has been evaluated on the basis of a conventional
highway cost-benefit methodology, but the results have been used during project preparation as criteria for
selecting the PM works in the framework of the lOYRPMP.
All PM works selected for financing will meet the minimum traffic thresholds, with priority given to roads
with the highest traffic levels. As long as the selection of PM works follows the minimum traffic threshold
criteria and priority is given to the roads with highest traffic levels, the average EIRR for the Periodic
Maintenance Component of RMP will be well above 12 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The financial issues that required special attention included: (i) an assessment of Government financial
capacity for road maintenance, taking into consideration the nation's overall demands for public
expenditures and the Government capability for generating revenues; and (ii) the financial feasibility of
raising sufficient funds from road users for road maintenance.
The revenues for the RMF will be derived mainly from licensing fees and from a surcharge on the price of
gasoline and a surcharge on the price of diesel fuel, which together will be known as the fuel levy. As
outlined in Annex 5, the level of the fuel levy will be carefully calibrated to avoid potential inflationary
shocks and/or prompt fuel smuggling from neighboring countries, which may be particularly harmful in
- 20 -



Lao PDR. Therefore, the level of the fuel levy will be set up at a very low level initially (Kip 40) and will
be raised gradually, taking into account the economic context and an acceptable loss of macroeconomic
flexibility. Nevertheless, the aim of the program will be to ensure that, in the long-term, the National Road
Network maintenance needs are fully met and recovered mainly from road user charges.
Fiscal Impact:
Any GoL investment program has a fiscal impact, as it diverts Government resources from other activities.
However, in the case of the proposed RMP such impact would be minor. First, most of the resources
employed by RMP are not coming from GoL general budget but they are road user charges that - as in the
case of most utilities - correspond to access and consumption fees. Secondly, although these charges may
affect the revenue generating capacity of the Government (by their impact on the citizens' budgets) and its
possibility of allocating these resources to other sectors, their fiscal impact would be minimal, as discussed
in Annex 5, because Lao PDR budget is scarcely dependent, if at all, on the fuel tax revenues. Moreover,
the low level of the estimated charges would leave GoL with margins to increase general budget revenues
from fuel if necessary.
3. Technical:
Maintenance Techniques. Periodic maintenance works involve mainly resealing and regravelling techniques
which are well known in Lao PDR and do not present any specific technical challenge. RMP will also
promote the use of alternative maintenance treatments such as slurry seal and asphalt overlay. Specialized
consultant services will be provided under the project to assist DOR-RAD and DCTPCs in selecting and
designing the most suitable technical maintenance techniques and in training the staff and contractors on
how to implement these techniques. In addition, a technical audit will be carried out annually to review the
effectiveness of the maintenance programs.
4. Institutional:
Road Maintenance Fund. To take into account possible negative impacts on the country budgetary
process, the RMF will have the following characteristics, as agreed between the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund: (i) funds dedicated to road maintenance will not be a means of avoiding
budget discipline; (ii) appropriate financial systems will be put in place to manage the revenues of the
RMF; (iii) the RMF will not supply road maintenance services; and (iv) the RMF will be managed by a
board with a significant private sector presence, but genuinely free from producer interest. The board will
have a management and advisory role. It will report to the MCTPC Minister. To ensure the independence
of its Secretariat, its staff will be hired under market employment conditions.
Decentralization. To accommodate the devolution of some management responsibilities of road
maintenance to provincial and local authorities, MCTPC has restructured its organization during project
preparation and has clarified the roles of each involved agency.
4.1 Executing agencies:
As defined under section C.4, the executing agency will be MCTPC. Implementation units will include
DOR-RAD, -PTD, -PMD and -DD, PD-MDD; DOT-TCD, DCTPCs and RMAB.
4.2 Project management:
Because the project involves several components to be executed by several implementing units, it will
require strong monitoring from the DOR-PMD. Although this unit was created recently, it has been staffed
- 21 -



with personnel that have extensive experience on foreign-assisted projects. To support this unit, technical
assistance will be provided.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement activities to be carried out by the central implementing agency MCTPC-DOR-RAD and PMD
are expected to be executed smoothly since the staff in these units have experience with IDA-financed
projects. Procurement to be initiated at the DCTPCs and local level will clearly need more attention. For
this reason, all activities to be carried out by the DCTPCs and local authorities will be subject to prior
review by DOR-RAD, as stipulated in the Memorandum of Agreement between the MCTPC and DCTPCs
(see Annex 15). Training will also be provided to the DCTPCs and local authorities to ensure adequate and
smooth processing.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Considering the numerous activities and several implementing units involved, the project will require tight
financial management. During project preparation, a financial management system was established with the
assistance of Sida. Periodic follow up by specialized consultants, again financed by Sida, will be provided
during project execution. The Sida-developed Financial Management System (FMS) was reviewed by the
IDA preparation team and evaluated as adequate. MCTPC requested all donors to use this system under
the projects they respectively financed.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The main issues associated with this project are the temporary construction related impacts of erosion
control, dust and noise control, handling and disposal of hazardous construction materials, and solid waste
disposal. Given the program approach adopted for this project, specific road sections to be maintained
have not yet been identified. Therefore, no stand alone EA has been prepared for this project. The
preparation team reviewed Environmental Guidelines for Road Construction and Maintenance Projects
enacted by Prime Minister Decree 50/PM of 04/01/95. It has been agreed that: (i) the Guidelines will be
made available to the public for review and comments; and (ii) that the mitigation measures outlined in the
guidelines will be included in construction contracts and monitored throughout the project. Regarding the
monitoring, MCTPC indicated that specialized services would be provided to its DOR-PTD Environmental
and Social Unit under the Asian Development Bank (ADB) financed Rural Access Road Project. One of
the main goals of this technical assistance is to ensure proper monitoring of mitigation measures under road
construction and maintenance contracts.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Guidelines were prepared by international consultants under a previous technical
assistance to the Ministry. These guidelines summarize possible impacts from road works and specify
measures to be adopted to mitigate such impacts.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
No separate EA has been prepared for this project. However, the Environmental Guidelines for road
projects have been endorsed by the Government and submitted to the Bank.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
-22 -



No public consultation has been carried out since there is no stand alone EA. The project will take steps to
notify affected communities of works scheduled prior to commencement of works. In addition, MCTPC
will make the Environmental Guidelines available to the public prior to the beginning of the works for
review and comments.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The supervising engineer will be responsible for ensuring compliance with any environmental mitigation
requirements of the maintenance works. In addition and as mentioned above, the DOR - Environmental and
Social Unit will ensure proper monitoring and compliance.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Given the type of activities to be carried out, the project is not expected to cause land acquisition,
resettlement or other negative social impacts. However, the use of areas along the roads as deposits and
road maintenance operations may cause unexpected low-level and temporary impacts on parcels of
land/buildings or may cause crops or income losses to settlers along the roads.
In order to assure that unforeseen project impacts are compensated in accordance to the World Bank
resettlement policies, "Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines" have been prepared. The Resettlement
and Compensation Guidelines define a resettlement policy framework for the project and specify the
implementation procedures to be followed in order to ensure, if necessary, compliance with OD 4.30.
The project will not cause impacts with specific significance to Indigenous People.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders were actively involved in the preparation of the project. The following summarizes some of
the participatory initiatives undertaken during project preparation:
Commercialization of Road Sector Activities. Following a regional workshop organized in Bangkok by
ESCAP and World Bank in September 1997 on commercialization of road sector activities where a Lao
delegation participated, the IDA-preparation team organized a national workshop in Vientiane in February
1998. More than 100 participants from public and private sector and from the entire donor community
participated. The workshop included presentation of road financing and management systems in Zambia
(developing economy), Latvia (transition economy) and New Zealand (developed economy). The two-day
workshop was very successful in promoting the need to protect the recently rehabilitated road network
through regular maintenance. Many stakeholders recognized the need to establish a sustainable financing
mechanism to finance road maintenance activities.
Study Tour in Africa. As a follow up, the IDA-preparation team organized a study tour in Ghana and
Zambia in February 1999 to review the experience of these two countries in establishing Road Fund. The
group included representatives of the Lao Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Justice, Prime Minister Office and MCTPC. The group was also accompanied by a similar
delegation from Nepal. Following the tour, GoL officially requested IDA to help them establish similar
financing and management systems.
Road Maintenance Fund Design. In May-June 1999, a consultant helped the stakeholders, including
private sector representatives, define the modalities of a road fund that would be dedicated to maintenance.
The outcome was a draft decree which was reviewed and finalized during a final two day workshop. In
- 23 -



July 2000, the same consultant helped the GoL define detailed guidelines for the operations of the Road
Maintenance Fund.
Road Maintenance Fund Operation. The views of users and of other stakeholders will be taken into
account when determining resource allocation to road maintenance. Private sector operators and demand
sectors will be represented in the RMAB. In fact, four of its seven members will be nominated by the key
users' associations such as the Lao Chamber of Commerce, the road transport operators, the passenger
operators and the road users associations.
RMP Logical Framework. The RMP logical framework was prepared with the assistance of a Logframe
specialist during a three-day workshop in December 1999. Participants included the private sector, road
users and central/provincial government officials. The IDA preparation team did not lead the meeting but
participated as a member.
Rural Communities. RMP also draws upon the participation of the rural communities that are major
stakeholders and beneficiaries of an improved road system. A comprehensive study led by the EAP
Environmental and Social Development Sector Unit (EASES) was carried out during project preparation.
The study included consultations of about 200 villages in Luang Natntha and Savannakhet, two of the pilot
provinces included under RMP- 1. In addition, two provincial workshops and one national workshop were
successfully carried out. The study helped to: (a) recognize the priorities and major needs that rural
communities have in terms of their road transport system; (b) identify how rural communities perceive road
maintenance and the role that they can play in helping the RMP meet its objective of sustainable
preservation of the roads at the local level. The study found that most villages are linked by poor quality
roads to the outside world, with 42 percent of the sample villages accessible all year round and the other 58
percent of villages inaccessible for five months of the year. The impact of poor roads was seen in all
aspects of life, principally in longer time and higher costs to reach farm lots, schools, markets, clinics, and
district centers. Poor roads also had adverse consequences on prices of farm products and value of assets,
and increased the costs of economic and social interaction for women. Among the main reasons for poor
roads was the lack of maintenance due to the lack of resources, lack of mobilization, absence of a sense of
community ownership, and lack of technical knowledge. Most villagers were in favor of a system
providing for their participation in maintenance on condition that tools and materials, and payment for time
spent, was provided. Among the key recommendations adopted were the:
i  need for establishment of a strong institutional framework for rural road maintenance to ensure
community participation;
*   need for adequate financial arrangements for rural road maintenance;
*   importance of building upon existing systems of community participation in road maintenance;
and
*   necessity for training and capacity building of villagers in routine road maintenance.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
No specific consultations with NGOs have been carried out for this project. However, the project team
consulted extensively with all the major donors involved in the road sector (Sida, ADB, JICA, ILO, UNDP,
KFW, CCI) and most of all stakeholders (MOF, MOJ, MOC, MCTPC, DCTPCs, Districts, Villagers,
Governor offices, Chamber of Commerce Contractors, Transporters, Buses Association, Tuk-Tuk
Association, Consultants).
One of the main results of this extensive consultation is that there is now full appreciation of MCTPC
strategic directions in the road sector. This was achieved through a close coordination and cooperation with
- 24 -



the two other main donors in the road sector, Sida and ADB. The broad understandings reached were: (i)
the preservation of the road assets is top priority; (ii) the Road Maintenance Fund is essential; (iii) there is
a need to review revenues and expenditures and adopt a better balance between investments and
maintenance (iv) management tools developed so far would be the basis of any future development or
improvements; (v) decentralization is the appropriate strategy; (vi) capacity building should be incremental;
and (vii) commercialization of the sector should be encouraged, even for road management activities.
MCTPC and each of these main donors agreed to work toward the achievement of these goals.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
This will be achieved in two ways. First, the involvement of the road users in the management of the Road
Maintenance Fund will ensure that their needs will be fulfilled. Second, the project will foster the
involvement of the villagers and districts in the management and delivery of the maintenance activities on
the LRN.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Although the project is not a poverty targeted intervention, an attempt to measure the poverty reduction
impact of improved road access for the local communities will be carried out on sample roads through a
social and economic survey to be conducted at the start up and end of RMP-1. The baseline survey will be
conducted under the leadership of Sida in collaboration with IDA.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
As described above under Section E.5 and E.6, Environmental Guidelines and a Resettlement Policy
Framework will be applied during project execution. Monitoring will be ensured by the supervising
engineer and the DOR-PTD Environmental and Social Unit which would be assisted by a specialized
consultant provided under the ADB-financed Rural Access Road Project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The basic objective of the RMP is to develop and initiate long-term sustainability framework for
maintaining the NRN and LRN through the following initiatives:
a) Create a sustainable revenue source for preserving road assets;
b) Promote participation of main stakeholders in project design, implementation and operations to
- 25 -



ensure ownership of project objectives;
c) Improve MCTPC/DCTPC practices and restructure them according to their responsibilities;
d) Promote road maintenance activities that are economically, financially and environmentally viable;
e) Enforce key regulations on road transport operations which affect the pavement life;
f) Promote road users' participation both in the management and financing of the sector; and
g) Improve the capability of the local construction and consulting industry.
RMP will support the creation and efficient operation of a Road Maintenance Fund which, over time,
would generate sufficient revenue to cover the full cost of preserving the road network in Lao PDR.
Moreover, the design of the Road Management System will be kept simple and will build upon the existing
sub-systems.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Di;;j:d ;;:;i:: :Risk  R kisk Rating          Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Commitment to achieve the development      M         Letter of Development Program (already
objective of the project.                            approved).
Long-term involvement, donors' coordination.
Undue extemal pressures on MCTPC and       M         Clear definition of responsibilities in project
DCTPC.                                               documents. Emphasize this point at project
launch and during supervision.
GoL does not provide adequate funds to     S         Keep the system simple and cheap to operate.
ensure functioning of the Road
Management System introduced under the
project.
Local contractors do not have access to    M         MOF would allow payment of foreign currency
foreign currency and credit for equipment.           under NCB contracts.
GoL does not provide adequate resources    S         Letter of Development Program.
for law enforcement.                                 Conditional financing.
The RMAB members do not adequately         M         Appointment based on defined criteria.
represent their constituency.                        Provision of training on roles and duties.
Lack of interest exhibited by local        S         Foster participatory approach to raise awareness
communities about road maintenance.                  and close collaboration with donors and NGOs
involved in IRAP and other grassroots activities.
Low staff skills to implement the new      S         Contract out the operation and maintenance of
management system.                                   the Road Management System while retaining
the decision making within MCTPC.
Provide training and technical assistance to
MCTPC-DOR on how to use the RMS and
decision making.
Lack of coordination between and among     M         Participate in coordination activities.
MCTPC and donors.                                    Maintain communication and exchange
information.
Joint supervision.
Endorse MoU.
From Components to Outputs
- 26 -



Counterparts funds are not available in     S        Annual consultations with MOF and SPC on
timely manner.                                       budget allocations.
Conditional financing.
Peace and order are not maintained.        N         N/A
Natural calamities delay or increase cost  N         Plan contingencies.
of road works.
Contractors and consultants do not         M         Procurement monitoring.
perform according to TOR.                            Close supervision based on a performance
monitoring system and technical audits.
Delays in procurement and disbursement.    M         Training and technical assistance.
Adequate FMS and complementary TA and
performance monitoring system.
Needed human resources are not              S        RMP-1 targets Provinces and MCTPC
available, both in number and quality.               departments where there is more capacity.
Support capacity building for the other involved
agencies through TA and specific activities.
IDA supervision resources are not          M         IDA management and country team, continuous
available, in terms of number, appropriate           involvement and commitment.
expertise and continuity.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The one area of controversy could be the public disapproval of the funds levied by the Road Maintenance
Fund. The project would raise awareness among road users about the benefits of the proposed fund and its
participatory framework. The road users' representatives on the RMAB will design and communicate
information campaigns explaining the intent of the RMF.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following conditions of negotiations were met:
*   Decree No. 09/PM of January 15, 2001, establishing a Road Maintenance Fund was issued.
*   Decree No. 05/PM of January 15, 2001, designating members of the Road Maintenance Advisory
Board was issued.
*   RMP Letter of Development Program of January 10, 2001 was issued.
*   MCTPC's decision of October 19, 2000, that endorsed the Local Referencing System that apply to
all roads was issued.
*   The design of the Financial Management System was completed and the MCTPC-DOR
Disbursement Division is adequately staffed.
*   Decision No. 127/MCTPC of January 15, 2001, creating the Department of Transport's Transport
Control Division was issued.
*   Project Implementation Plan, Version 5.3 of December 2000, submitted under letter No. 5 1/DOR
of January 12, 2001 was issued.
*   MoUs delineating procurement responsibilities between MCTPC and the provinces of
- 27 -



Savannakhet, Luang Prabang, Luang Namtha and Champassack were furnished under letter no.
1819/DOR of December 20, 2000.
*   Decision No. 418 1/MCTPC of December 21, 2000, assigning permanent staff with working
knowledge of English language to DOR-PTD (2 for the management of the road condition surveys,
2 for the management of the bridge management system, and 2 for the management of the routine
maintenance management system and monitoring and evaluation system) was issued.
*   Decision No. 1777/DOR of December 18, 2000, creating the Coordination Committee (CC)
comprising the DOR Director General as Chairman, PMD Director, RAD Director, PTD Director,
LRD Director, DOT Director General and Sida-PCU Manager and Chief Technical Advisor to
foster coordination between activities under the Sida-fmanced LSRSP-II and IDA-financed RMP- I
was issued.
*   Decision No. 2157/MCTPC of July 4, 2000, creating penalty fees for overloaded vehicles was
issued.
Conditions of Board presentation:
* None
Conditions of effectiveness:
*   MOF has issued a "decision" allowing management of project special accounts by MCTPC-DOR
Disbursement Division and Secretariat of Road Maintenance Fund.
*   RMF Secretariat staff are appointed by Road Maintenance Advisory Board.
*   Financial Management System for project operations, excluding operations financed by Road
Maintenance Fund, is fully operational.
*   A specialized consultant is appointed by MCTPC to assist the establishment and operation of the
Road Maintenance Fund, the Road Maintenance Advisory Board and its Secretariat.
*   The Nordic Development Fund Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered.
*   GoL legal opinions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of disbursement for periodic maintenance work:
*   Financial Management System of Road Maintenance Fund is fully operational.
As IDA Credit covenants, the Borrower shall:
*   Maintain until completion of the Project, a Secretariat for the Road Maintenance Advisory Board,
with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a Secretary, a technical manager and a
financial manager.
*   Maintain until completion of the Project, with competent staff in adequate numbers including a
Director, the following units: the Project Monitoring Division, the Road Administration Division,
the Planning and Technical Division, the Disbursement Division of the Department of Roads, the
Department of Transport, the Manpower Development Division of the Personnel Department of
MCTPC and the DCTPC.
*   Maintain in the Planning and Technical Division of the Department of Roads of MCTPC, until
completion of the Project, the following competent staff whose qualifications shall include a
working knowledge of English:
(a) two staff for the management of the road condition surveys;
(b) two staff for the management of the bridge management system; and
(c) two staff for the management of the routine maintenance management system and monitoring
and evaluation system.
- 28 -



*  Not later than June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 2002, and until completion of the
Project, carry out a technical audit of Project implementation, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association.
*   Not later than December 31, 2001, apply its location referencing system to all national and
provincial roads that are in a passable condition.
*   Not later than September 30, 2002, prepare a draft long-term investment and maintenance plan to
ensure sustainable preservation of the road network; furnish such plan to the Association and to the
other donors and agencies participating in the road sector for comments; and not later than
December 31, 2002, finalize such plan taking into account the comments of the Association and of
the other agencies and donors.
*   Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
* Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, on
or about April 30 and October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2001, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and review with the Association promptly
thereafter each such report and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
In carrying out the Periodic Maintenance component of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
-   At least 60 days prior to the initiation of any works, the Environmental Guidelines and the
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement are made freely available to the local population for
consultation.
-   The works are carried out in accordance with appropriate engineering and environmental standards
and practices that would minimize any acquisition of land, avoid involuntary displacement of
Affected Persons (physically and economically), and avoid or minimize any negative environmental
impact.
-   The Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, and, if applicable,
appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are satisfactory to the Affected
Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 4(d)
of this Schedule; and
*   in the event that two hundred or more persons are adversely affected:
(i)    prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and
Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Association for approval; and
(ii)   prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected Persons shall have been
compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
In carrying out the Routine Maintenance component of the Project, the Borrower shall:
* cause the provinces of Champassack, Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, and Savannakhet, to furnish
to the Association, not later than November I in each year, starting November 1, 2001, and until
completion of the Project, a report on the actual expenditures incurred for emergency and routine
maintenance works during the previous Fiscal Year.
In carrying out the Heavy Transport Management Program component of the Project, the Borrower shall:
*   not later than December 31, 2001, take all steps required to set the axle load weight limit at 9.1
- 29 -



tons per axle.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
.(L..  ......
Denis Robitaille                  Jitendra N. Bajpai                 Ian C. Porter
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Manager
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Supporting rural and national Efficiency: average transport  Road Management System    Evolving competitiveness of
infrastructure, particularly the costs on currently  including traffic and road  of the transportation industry
development and maintenance maintainable NRN of about   condition surveys.
of the road infrastructure to   3,700 km does not increase by                  Development of basic human
increase production efficiency more than 4%.                                   resources to sustain urban and
and access to social services.                                                 rural development
Access: 75% of the currently
maintainable local roads of                          Concomitant progress in other
about 6,700 km are                                   infrastructure and service
maintained to provide                                sectors (i.e. energy, water,
all-weather access to rural                         education)
communities.              LSRSP-II baseline and
completion socio-economic   Other
Note: although the project is  survey               environmental/social/economi
not a poverty targeted                              c/political conditions remain
intervention, an attempt to                         favorable.
measure the poverty reduction
impact of improved road
access for the local
communities will be carried
out on sample roads through a
social and economic survey to
be conducted at the start up
and end of RMP- 1.
- 31 -



Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
Sustainable preservation of   90% of maintainable NRN  Annual report of the Road    GoL continue to support the
road assets.               and LRN maintenance        Maintenance Advisory Board vision of a more modem and
funding needs are fully met   (RMAB)                 efficient transport
and recovered from road                              infrastructure.
users.                     Road Management System
including traffic and road  Absence of economic and/or
NRN average International   condition surveys        natural shocks that could
Roughness Index (IRI) on                             hamper transportation
currently maintainable NRN   Technical Audits        activities to an unforeseeable
of about 3,700 km does not                           degree.
increase by more than 20%    Project Supervision Reports
(baseline value will be                              Transport cost savings (users
established after completion of Traffic surveys      and maintenance/construction
road conditions survey of                            costs) are ultimately passe,l to
NRN to be carried between                            population/consumers.
Feb-July 2001 under
IDA-financed THIP)                                   RMP-2 is developed
successfully.
Percentage of heavy vehicles
overloaded on the NRN is less                        Effective donor coordination
than 15%.                                            among donors.
- 32 -



Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
To develop and implement   Domestic revenues, including Annual report of the RMAB   External macroeconomics
financing and management  those recovered directly from                        conditions will allow for
systems for the sustainable   road users, allocated for the   Annual surveys/statistics of   adequate recover of
maintenance of the NRN    maintenance of the         the MCTPC                 maintenance costs from road
countrywide and design and   maintainable NRN and LRN                          users charges.
test in four selected provinces maintenance meets the needs  Traffic surveys and road
financing and management   at 35% by end of project.    conditions survey      GoL maintains its policy
systems for the sustainable                                                    commitment towards
maintenance of the LRN.   By December 31, 2002,      Technical Audits          allocation of adequate
MCTPC will establish, in                            resources to road
consultation and agreement   Project Supervision Reports   maintenance.
with all the development
agencies involved in the road  LSRSP-II Project Reports    The RMAB does not limit
sector, a long-term investment                      itself to an advisory role but
and maintenance plan that                           performs effectively its
will ensure the sustainable                         supervisory and policy duties
preservation of the road                            in an independent way.
network. This plan would be
based on cost recovery                               Provincial authorities fully
principles and would establish                       adopt a "maintenance culture"
increasing annual targets of                        and assume their
local financial resources                           responsibilities in ensuring
(mainly road user charges)                          sustainable maintenance of the
that would result in the full                       road network under their
financing of the entire cost of                     jurisdiction.
maintaining the NRN and
LRN within a period of                              Local communities develop.
maximum 7 years after the                           ownership of their roads and
preparation of the plan.                            participate actively to
maintenance activities.
A national implementation
plan for the introduction a                          Other transport project are
maintenance financing and                            developed/implemented
management system for the                           successfully.
LRN in all provinces is
prepared and endorsed by GoL
by December 31, 2003.
- 33 -



u   3 ut' FEgS ....i0Ro;lft'rto 00,"! tm!,
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Additional financial   The initial fuel levy of   Project Quarterly Progress    GoL maintains its
resources for road        4OKips/liter is increased by   Reports               commitment to achieve the
maintenance are mobilized  50% per year, plus inflation,                       development objective of the
and efficiently used.     for the first three years.  Project Supervision Reports  project.
A. 1 Portions of NRN and                             Technical Audits           Good coordination among
LRN are preserved through    1,100 km of national roads                        MCTPC and donors.
periodic maintenance.     and 300 km of local roads in  Traffic Inspections
the four selected provinces are                      GoL provides adequate
subject to periodic                                 resources for law enforcement.
maintenance.
A.2 Maintainable sections of Maintainable sections of the
NRN and LRN are preserved  NRN (3,700 km during MP- 1;
through routine maintenance. 4,100 km during MP-2, 4,700
km during MP-3) and LRN
(750 km during MP-1; 900
km during MP-2, 1,100 km
during MP-3) are subject to
routine maintenance works.
A.3 Overloading is reduced.  Percentage of vehicles
overloaded on the NRN is less
than 40%.
- 34 -



B. Capacity of institutions
dealing with road
maintenance activities at
central and provincial level
is strengthened.
B. 1 Road Management      The GoL FY 2003/2004       Project Quarterly Progress    Provincial Authorities do not
System is developed and used. routine and periodic  Reports                    interfere in the respective
maintenance programs are                            responsibilities of MCTPC
prioritized using the Road    Project Supervision Reports  and DCTPC.
Management System.
Technical Audits          GoL provides adequate funds
B.2 Road Maintenance Fund  The annual maintenance                              to ensure functioning of the
is operational.           program for FY 2002/2003 is RMAB periodic reports    RMS introduced under the
reviewed and approved by the                         project.
Road Maintenance Advisory
Board.                                              Capacity of involved staff to
implement the new systems is
The RMAB make public its   FMS reports              sufficient.
FY 2001/2002 annual report
including it financial audit.                       Local contractors have access
to foreign currency.
B.3 Project monitoring is    The Project Monitoring  LSRSP-II Project Monitoring  The RMAB members
improved.                 Report (PMRs) are produced  Report                   adequately represent their
by the financial management                          constituency.
system.
Local communities are
The Monitoring and                                  properly consulted and/or
Evaluation System (MES) is                          have time to participate in the
operational in the four                             program.
selected province by June 30,
2003.                                                Local communities do feel
ownership of their roads.
B.4 Local contracting and    National strategy for   RMAB reports
consulting industry providing development of the domestic
road maintenance services is  contracting and consulting
strengthened.             industry is developed by June
30, 2002.
B.5 Road users/ beneficiaries Village Maintenance    LSRSP-II project report
participate in the delivery and Committees are established in
management of road        at least one district in the four
maintenance activities.   selected provinces.
- 35 -



Project 12omponents I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:             m Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
A.1 Periodic Maintenance   US$ 29.31 million          Project reports to include  Counterpart funds are
A. 1.1 PM on NRN                                      financial PMRs             available in timely manner.
A. 1.2.1 works
A. 1.1.2 supervision (local                                                      Peace and order maintained.
consultants)
A. 1.1.3 vehicles                                                                Natural calamities do not
A. 1.1.4 office equipment and                                                    delay or increase cost of roap
supplies                                                                         works.
A. 1.1.5 operating cost
A. 1.2 PM on LRN
A. 1.2.1 works
A. 1.2.2 supervision (Sida)
A. 1.2.3 vehicles
A.1.2.4 office supply
A.1.2.5 district offoces
A. 1.2.6 operating cost
A. 1. 3 contract preparation and
monitoring
A.2 Routine Maintenance    US$ 13.41 million                                     Contractors and consultants
A.2.1I RM on NRN                                                                 perform according to TOR.
A.2. 1.1 works                                                                   No delays in procurement an d
A.2.1.2 operating cost                                                           disbursement.
A.2.2 RM on LRN                                                                  Needed human resources are
A.2.2.1 works                                                                    available, both in number and
A.2.2.2 operating cost                                                           quality.
WB supervision resources are
available, in terms of number,
appropriate expertise and
continuity.
A.3 Heavy Transport        US$ 3.08 million
Management Program
A.3.1 Works
A.3. 1.1 permanent stations (7)
A.3.1.2 Layby (17)
A.3.2 equipment
A.3.3 Assistance to HTMP
A.3.4 Office supply
A.3.5 Vehicles (13 4WD, 19
motorbikes)
A.3.6 operating cost
- 36 -



B.1 Establishment of Road   US$ 0.63 million
Maintenance System
B. 1. I Design, implementation,
support
B. 1.2 Road conditions surveys
B. 1.3 Road condition survey
equipment
B. 1.4 Operating cost
B.2 Assist Road           US$ 0.54 million
Maintenance Fund
operations
B.2. 1 Assist RMAB and
Secretariat
B.2.2 Secretariat staff
B.2.3 Study Tour/Training
B.2.4 operating cost
B.3 Improve Project       US$ 0.76 million
Preparation, Execution and
Monitoring
B.3.1 Project mgt./monitoring
B.3.2 Financial
mgt./monitoring (Sida)
B.3.3 Project auditing
B.3.4 Project technical
auditing
B.3.5 Human Resource
Development
B.3.6 operating cost
B.4 Strengthened Local    US$ 0.02 million
Contracting and Consulting
Industry
B.4. I Develop strategy
B.5 Involve road users/   US$ 0.05 million
beneficiaries
B.5.1 Road Users
B.5.2 Community
Involvement
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementation Period RMP will cover about 9 years and include two phases: RMP-1 and RMP-2.
RMP- 1 will cover about 3.25 years from the expected effectiveness date of April 2001 to the closing date
of June 30, 2004. RMP-1 includes three distinct maintenance periods (MP - i.e.: period with dry weather
conditions allowing execution of works). MP-1 covers October 2001 to June 2002, MP-2 covers October
2002 to June 2003 and MP-3 covers form October 2003 to June 2004.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$29.31 million
A.) Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works. RMP will finance periodic maintenance works
(regravelling, resealing, thin asphalt overlay, bridge repairs, road marking, road signs) and rehabilitation
works (thick asphalt overlay and pavement reconstruction) on various maintainable sections of the NRN
and LRN. Rehabilitation works will be carried out only under RMP-2.
Under RMP-1, regravelling and resealing periodic maintenance works will be undertaken on about 1,100
km of the NRN countrywide and on 300 km of the LRN in the four selected provinces (Luang Namtha,
Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack). To repair severely damaged spots on selected roads,
rehabilitation works will be allowed under each periodic maintenance contract up to a maximum of 25
percent of the estimated contract cost. If the road needs more rehabilitation, it will not be included in the
program. In addition, under each Maintenance Period (MP), a contract for road marking and a contract for
road sign repairs and installation on the NRN will be implemented contributing to improving road safety. C
ontracts to be executed during MP-1 are described under the table below. The selection of contracts on the
NRN was based on the 10 Year Rolling Periodic Maintenance Plan prepared during project preparation
and which used economic selection criteria based on the bank-endorsed HDM-III (Manager) model.
Selection of contracts on the LRN under MP- 1 was based on experience and knowledge of the territory.
Selection of contracts to be executed under MP-2 and MP-3 will be based on the outputs of the pavement
management system to be made operational during the first year of RMP-1 operation (ref.: Annex 2,
Component B. 1). Priorities will be determined in applying economic and social criteria (ref.: description of
IRAP methodology under component B. 1 below).
Procurement arrangements. All contracts will be procured in accordance with NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Considering the nature of the works, these contracts will be mostly executed by
motorized equipment. However, in order to increase income and employment in rural areas, each selected
province agreed to award a Labor-Equipment-Supported Based (LESB) contract during MP-1 (Luang
Namtha, Luang Prabang, Champassack will use one LESB contract and Savannakhet will issue two LESB
contracts). This technology requires the contractors to favor and maximize the use of local labor over
motorized equipment. Laborers execute ditches and camber reshaping, material loading, spreading and
compaction. Only the transport of material is carried out by trucks and compaction could be assisted by
small-motorized compactors. The objective of this pilot component is to demonstrate that such contracts
could increase employment and revenue generation in remote areas as well as delivering quality output
similar to the ones delivered under standard contracts that are executed by heavy motorized equipment. An
evaluation of such contracts will be carried out at the end of MP- 1 and, if successful, the LESB
methodology will be expanded again under MP-2 and MP-3.
- 38 -



Implementation Arrangements. The periodic maintenance works on the NRN will be implemented jointly
by the DOR-RAD and the DCTPCs. Under the leadership of the DOR-RAD, the DCTPCs will prepare,
procure and supervise the contracts. DOR-RAD will: (i) prepare the annual work program; (ii) review the
designs and procure specialized services for detailed pavement investigation when necessary; (iii) provide
prior review of all procurement activities carried out by the DCTPCs; and (iv) monitor the implementation
of the program. The periodic maintenance works on the LRN will be implemented by the DCTPCs. RAD
will also prior review the procurement activities carried out by the DCTPCs.
The RAD prior review responsibilities are described under the MoA between the MCTPC and the Province
under Annex 15. All contracts will be financed through the Road Maintenance Fund which will have the
final authority in allocating revenues, reviewing and accepting annual work programs and issuing payment
(ref.: Annex 13 describing RMF).
MP1 Periodic Maintenance Works
Category    Contract Package   Road       Section        Road   Works      Work      ADT    Cost
No.         No.                        Length  Length                     Estimate
_kmi  t1km)u                       ISD)
NRN        PHOI-MPI-PM-NROI  iB    Bun Yo - Paknamnov     109    45       Regrayclling  75   407
LN0I-MPI -PM-NRO2  3     Luang Namtha - M Sing  71    30      Resealing    222    700
- China bonier
BLOI-MPI-PM-NR03  13S   Bolikhamsay -         75      SO      Resealing    900    860
.______  ____ _______             Khammonuan                   _____    ______
LPOI-MPI-PM-NR04  I C    Pakmong- 1-ouaphan    146    50      Resealing    225    975
__      _  _  _  _  _        bonder_                                                    _  _
XBO I-PM PN     Xaienabouli - Paklav                 140  _       Raravellrz  80  440
VT     -PM-NRO_ I 0    Vientiane - Phonbona    .      15      Resealing    1795   292.
KHOI-MPI-PM-NR07  13S   Bolikhamsai -         144    20       Resealing    850    390
Savannakhet
ksonirP-N0   *T 42  _  20    Rescaling    300    390
S I0I-MPI-PM-,RO9   5    I Houavno - Thavieng  162    50      Rcgravelling  56   5
Subtotal            97      312                         5.004.5
SWZ I-MPI-PM-NRIO        Various                      2,000    Road              200
Marking and
SZ02-MPI-PM-NRI I        Various                        -    Bridge              100
:                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ReDair
_ ___________            :Subtotal NRN  -_00                                      5304.5
LRN                                                             r_
Luang      LNOI-MPI-PM-LROI          Bangsing - Sobia     63     20       Regravelling  40   70
LN02-MP I -PM-LRO2      | Muanzsine - Viengseng   . 60    | 10  Regrvelling  40  30
Luang      LPOI-MPI-PM-LR03          Luang Prabang -      26     26       Regravelling  158    78.67
Pmbuang                              Kwanasiwaterfalls   l        l
LP02-MPl-PM-LR04         Pakxenung- Pholxay    26     26      Regravelling  8O   71.33
IDistrict HOI               I    _
Chmpasal   CHOI-MPI-PM-LR05          Jctt 13S-Watthou   r22       JL.. IB   iaxellinv  20    142
CH02-MPI-PM-LR06        | ___   - ... .               4 I !!    I !g  20I
Savannakhet  SVOI-MPI-PM-LR07        R  S-Phondoua       70      20       Reravellinz  50    150
SV2-MPI -PM-LR8                3S -Thapantong    33    8       R      li   40      30
SV03-MPI-PM-LRO9  _      Xebanfai-Savannakhet  36     5       Reg=vlin'  40      20
ISubtotalLRN        I358    127                    _    600
Capacity Building and Operational Support. To support the DOR-RAD, the DCTPCs and the
Contractors, specialized consultants will be provided under RMP-1.
For the NRN, one Maintenance Management Advisor (MMA - 30staff/months), four Road Maintenance
Advisors (RMA) (two with international experience for 45 staff/months and two with regional/local
experience with working knowledge of Lao and English knowledge for 72 staff/months) will be appointed
to help DOR-RAD and DCTPCs accomplished their duties efficiently. The MMA will mainly support the
development and implementation of maintenance program and policies. The RMAs will support and train
- 39 -



the DCTPCs in preparing, procuring and supervising periodic works and train the contractors in the
bidding and execution of maintenance works. The objective of the two RMAs with international experience
will be to fully train the two RMAs with regional/local experience. In addition, DCTPCs may hire local
individual consultants to assist the supervision of the contracts when the internal capacity to carry out this
task is insufficient. Finally, vehicles (4 4WD pick-ups - two for RAD, two for MCTPC; and 2 motorbikes
125 cc for RAD), office equipment (4 computers with printers, I fax, I photocopier), and road condition
survey equipment for $32,000 (20 trip meters at $600; 2 data recording equipment; 2 DCPs at $550; 2
GPS at $600; 1 back-up system for computer at $5,000; and 1 upgrade computer network at $700) will be
provided.
For the LRN, technical assistance will be provided under Sida-fmanced LSRSP-H. Under this project, one
Field Engineer (FE) will be provided in each province and three Road Administration Development Advisor
(RADA; engineer with international experience in road maintenance and management system). One RADA
will be based in Vientiane, one in the North and one in the South. In addition to supporting LSRSP-II
activities, these consultants will help the four selected provinces prepare detailed engineering and bidding
documents, assist the procurement and the supervision of the routine and maintenance works financed
under RMP-1. In addition, RMP-1 will finance vehicles (2 4WD per province, 41 motorcycles 125cc- 1
per district, 2 computers and printers per province, 1 photocopier and fax per province); 38 office building
for district (about $8,000 per building); and survey equipment (ceiling of $1,000 per province).
Financing Arrangements. IDA and GoL will finance all periodic maintenance works and office building
construction at 95 percent and 5 percent, respectively. Consulting services provided to RAD for the
management of the works on the NRN will be financed by NDF at 100 percent. Consulting services
provided to the DCTPCs for the management of works on the LRN will be financed at 100 percent by Sida.
Vehicles, office equipment and survey equipment will be financed at 100 percent by IDA. Operating costs
related to works on NRN or LRN will be financed by IDA on a declining basis at the following rates 60
percent during MP- 1, 50 percent during MP-2 and 40 percent during MP-3. The remainder will be financed
by the RMF for the NRN and by the Provinces for the LRN.
As shown in the table above, the amount of funds to be allocated to the periodic maintenance of the LRN in
each province has already been defined for MP-1. However, the amount of funds for periodic maintenance
works on the LRN under MP-2 and MP-3 will depend on how much fund will be allocated to the routine
maintenance of the LRN under MP- 1 and MP-2 by the Provinces. For each US$ equivalent allocated to
the routine maintenance of the LRN in each respective province, IDA will finance US$5 equivalent of
periodic maintenance works in the following year. Based on the provinces commitments, the following
budgets are estimated.
Provincial Budget Committed for Routine Maintenance and
Corresponding Periodic Maintenance Budget
(UssOOo)
Routine Main enance Rudget  geid  aitnie E,dt
Province      MP-1         MP-2        MP-1      MP-2       MP-3
LuangNamtha       50           50          100        350       350
Luang Pang        77           77          150        535       535
Cham asak         80           80          150        50        550
Savannakhet       60           60        . 200       500        500
a/ MP-2 and MP-3 Periodic MWintemn.c estimates include the Provincial budget pl. IDA contribution of $5 for every $1 investcd in
the Routine Maintenance budget
- 40 -



Project Component 2 - US$13.41 million
A.2 Routine Maintenance Works. RMP will finance emergency (accident removal, landslide clearing)
and routine maintenance works (vegetation control, clearing drainage, potholes patching, edge repairs,
grading) on the maintainable sections of the NRN and LRN. Since these expenditures are recurrent in
nature, GoL will finance this component entirely through both the road maintenance fund and the
consolidated budget.
Under RMP-I, routine maintenance works will be carried out on the maintainable portions of the NRN
countrywide and on maintainable portions of the LRN in the four selected provinces. The following tables
indicate maintainable sections of respective network with corresponding budget requirements:
Length of Maintainable Road Network - Natonal Roads
_    _               ~~~~~Total      Road Lengt to be
Province       Paved   Gravel  Earth   Length                 Maintained
MP-t       MP-2     MP-3
Vientiane              164        8        0       245        171       201       208
Municipality
Phongsali              133       193     178       504       227        277       302
LouangNamtha           138         0     168       306        138       184       230
Oudamxai               316         0       0       316        III       136       190
Bokeo                    0        33      61        94        44         47        66
Louang Prabang    _   432        123 _ 38          593       386        403       475
Houa Phan              221        75       0       296        163       178       201
Sayabouli               18       318    222        558       352        380       436
I SianglKhouang    1   230        74      91       395       217        245       316
Vientiane              266        35      25       326       228        245       261
Province
Boilikhamsai           371         0     150       5211    365          391       417
Khamrnouan             150       130      68       348       226        244       261
Savannakhet            359        98      31       488       317        366       415
Salavan                 56       202      51       309        176       185       201
So35                              63      80       178         80        89        98
Champassak             144       257       0       401       241        261       341
|Attapu        _         0       130     120       250        10        108       113
Siasomboun               0       102     212       314        141       157       173
special zone       I_____
TOTAL         3033      1914t 1495         6442      367       4094      4705
Routine Maintenance Budget Calculation
_MP-I       _                MP-2                         MP-3|
Lengt      t U oIt C Mit Teal  Lnabl    DNt Cork  ToLal  Length URa     Cdt  Tebl
(km)    ($IkD)    Cost   (kD)         (Stims)    Co t        (kra)  (Skm)    Cost
_ ouang     ha       N/A      N/A      N/A         503 (S1 ($14        (1-)
Paved         2261      /4        1N5/    2678        694        1058   3289    694  23282
Unpaved       1416     645        09 / 4    1416    641        0 0914    1416   645  02914
nE-rgency"-                       0.372                        0.416                        0.479
TOTAL          3678       3= 65    4188   474                             5                 3.672
SeI 15056  ea Ruoit   Maintenance   Pant
Length of Maintinable Road Network - Local Roads
l   l      I        | ~~~Total |     Roatd Lengt to be      |
| Province      |Paved |Grovde| Earth |Length |                  Maintained          I
|   |        t          0       I         I ~~~~~~~~~MP-1    MP-2      MP-31
ILouangNamtha   IN/A       N/A       N/A  I         503 1     114 1      137 1     1641
ILousang Prabang     NIA       N/A       NIA        914       2691      323        397 
|Savannekhet      |NIA   |NIA   |NIA  | 322l1                 160        1 921     2301
|Champasak        |NIA   |NIA   |N/A  | 1776                  2001      2401       2881
Source: 10Year Rolling MaintenaneccPlan
- 41 -



Procurement Arrangements. (a) NRN. Experience under the IDA-financed Third Highway Improvement
Project shows that NCB procedures have often failed to attract bidders because the routine maintenance
works are small and scattered, and mainly located in remote areas. However, in accordance with the
Government procurement policy, NCB procedures will still be pursued as much as practicable under
RMP- I for routine maintenance works on the NRN. Based on nature of the tasks, four types of contracts
based will be used: (i) emergency works will be carried out by medium size contractors - direct contract
negotiations will be used - this category of work should require about 25 percent of the budget; (ii)
vegetation control, drainage cleaning and edge repairs will be packaged in several small and scattered
contracts - direct contract negotiations with various local communities will be undertaken - daily wage
"acceptable" to the communities will be paid (currently estimated at about 10,000 Kip/day - ref.:
Community Participation in Rural Road Maintenance September 2000 - study on project file) - this
category of work should require about 25 percent of the budget; (iii) potholes patching will be carried out
by small and medium size contractors - NCB procedures using simplified bidding documents will be used -
one contract per province will be awarded - this category of work should require about 25 percent of the
budget; (iv) grading of gravel roads will be carried out by medium size contractors - NCB procedures using
simplified bidding documents will be used - one contract per province will be awarded - this category of
work should also require about 25 percent of the budget. Overall 50 percent of the volume of work should
be contracted out. (b) LRN. As one of RMP-1 objectives is to test and find the best way to carry out
routine maintenance works on the LRN, the procurement arrangements shall remain flexible. Therefore, it
is envisaged at this stage that a mix of shopping procedures, direct contracting with small contractors and
force account will be used for routine maintenance works on the LRN. Where enough interested small
contractors exist, shopping procedures will be used. Otherwise, direct contacting with small contractors or
force account by the district and/or village authorities will be used. Efforts will be made to create small
contractors and village road association (Village Road Support Committee) through provision of tools,
training and financial assistance (ref.: LSRSP-II).
Implementation Arrangements. The routine maintenance works on the NRN will be implemented jointly
by the DOR-RAD and the DCTPCs. Under the leadership of the DOR-RAD, the DCTPCs will prepare,
procure and supervise the contracts. DOR-RAD will prepare the annual work program based on
infonnation submitted by the DCTPCs and monitor the implementation of the program. All contracts will
be financed through the Road Maintenance Fund which will have the final authority in allocating revenues,
reviewing and accepting the annual work program and issuing payment (ref.: Annex 13 describing RMF).
The routine maintenance works on the LRN will be implemented jointly by the DCTPCs and their Districts.
Corresponding contracts will be financed through the provincial budget.
Capacity Building and Operational Support. Under the Lao Swedish Road Sector Project II (LSRSP-II;
2001-2004) - planned to be effective by the end of 2000 - Sida will finance specialized consultants to help
DOR, the DCTPCs, the Districts and the villages establish sustainable road management systems. These
systems would foster local participation and ownership in the construction and maintenance of local roads
based on road associations or other forms of cooperation (ref.: Annex 2 Component B. 1). The assistance
will be extended to seven (7) provinces: three which are part of the LSRSP-I 1997-2000 and LSRSP-II
(Oudomxai, Khammouan, Boulikamxai); three which are part of RMP-1 (Luang Namtha, Champassack,
Savannakhet); and one which is common to LSRSP-I, LSRSP-II and RMP-1 (Luang Prabang). The
technical assistance included under LSRSP-II includes: (i) an Institutional Specialist that will help the
DOR-Local Road Division manage the project and support institutional reforms; (ii) three Road
Administration Development Advisors (RADA) that will introduce and monitor road management systems
at the DCTPC and District levels, and develop and test a model for village ownership and operational
responsibilities of local roads; (iii) 7 locally recruited Field Engineers (FE) that will support the
implementation of the objectives mentioned above in each of the 7 selected provinces; (iv) short-term
- 42 -



experts that will foster institutional development, provide training to contractors, and help further develop
road management systems at the provincial and district levels; and (v) a Financial Advisor (FA) that will
introduce and support an adequate financial management system. It was agreed that the RADA expert and
FE will assist the DCTPCs, districts and villages implement routine and periodic maintenance works
financed under RMP-1. (ref: LSRSP-II Project Document).
Financing Arrangements. Since routine maintenance expenditures are recurrent in nature, GoL will
finance this component entirely through both the Road Maintenance Fund for works on the NRN and
provincial budgets, from transfers from GoL consolidated budget and a small contribution from the Road
Maintenance Fund (10 percent of RMF will be allocated to all provinces for maintenance of the LRN).
Technical assistance will be financed 100 percent by Sida.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.08 million
A.3 Heavy Transport Management Program. RMP will support the implementation of a strategy to
reduce overloading on the road network. The MCTPC's strategy was inspired by the work carried out by
two specialized consultants during project preparation (Heavy Transport Management Program study
report in project files). The strategy will include provision of works, weighing equipment and specialized
services that will promote desired policy reforms, partnership between the GoL and the transport industry,
and capacity building.
Under RMP-1, civil works, equipment, capacity building and policy reforms will be provided.
v   Civil Works. Seven (7) permanent axle load weight stations including a small building, estimated at
$70,000/each, will be constructed at strategic points on the NRN (ref.: PIP for locations). In addition,
seventeen (17) laybys including a small building, estimated at $55,000/each, where trucks would be
weighed with mobile scales, will be constructed along strategic points of the NRN (ref.: PIP for
locations). Detailed designs of these permanent stations and laybys have been carried out by a local
consulting firm during project preparation. Procurement and construction will be completed during
MP- 1.
*  Equipment. Slow motion dynamic weigh scales, estimated at $35,000 each, will be installed at the
seven permanent weighing stations. Fourteen (14) sets of mobile scales with all-weather processing
unit (one per province involved and I for DOT-TCD) estimated at $18,000 per set will be provided.
Other equipment such as 13 4WD vehicles (3 for some specific permanent station; 1 per province and
2 for DOT-TCD); 19 motor-bikes 125 cc (1 per province; 1 per permanent stations and 4 for
municipalities); office fumiture (ceiling of $4,000 per permanent stations and $2,000 for laybys
building); and seventeen small generators.
*   Capacity Building. Consultant services will be provided to help DOT in implementation of all
component activities (designs, procurement, construction supervision, training, monitoring and policy
reforms). One important aspect of the capacity building component will consist of establishing a
partnership between MCTPC and the heavy goods transporters, freight associations, the Lao Chamber
of Commerce and Industry, the Buses Associations and all other interested stakeholders. Any
legislative and enforcement actions will be preceded by public information/consultation. During these
sessions, training will be provided to inform the stakeholders of the impacts of overloading so they can
see their benefits and support the reforms.
* Poliev Reforms. MCTPC will increase the Axle Load Weight Limit to 9.1 tormes in line with the
December 1999 ASEAN transit traffic agreement. An economic analysis carried out under the HTMP
study shows that such an increase is justified (transport cost savings > additional preservation cost).
- 43 -



MCTPC should also increase the vehicle annual license fees. However, the objective that each vehicle
should be charged for the marginal cost of pavement damages it causes would not be socially and
politically acceptable since it would result in a charge of about US$ 4,800 for a typical heavy vehicle
compared to the current charge of US$ 13 equivalent. But the cost recovery objective will be pursued
under RMP through the establishment of the RMF. Actually, the decree would create a Heavy Vehicle
Surcharge which is equivalent to a licensing fee. The surcharge should generate an average revenue in
Kip equivalent to about US$ 27 per vehicle. Provisions for an average annual increase of 25 percent
plus inflation have been included in the Letter of Development Program (ref.: Annex 14). MCTPC will
also issue a decree to increase the overloading fines. The fines comprised four components as
delineated below:
Overloading Fines
Overweight    Compensation for   Weighing service  Road management   Overload fines
road damalze      fees            fees
(Ton)          (KID            (FIUD)          (KiDW       MpffrlTri-ehicle)
0.5 - 0.9        6J00            300            7.000           50,000
1,0- 1.5        8.300            400            8.700           50.000
1.6- 2.0        9.700            500           10,200          50000
2.1 - 2.5       11.400           600            12.000         50.000
2.6-3.0         13AQ0            700            14 100         so.nno
3.1 -3.5   _ 16.21DO        _     00           17-000          so.noo
I=3, -40   |      18,5007          900  -!        19A400          50,000
5              .V-.6.0  35..         1750           36,750          50.000
6.1 -7.0        465      Q      2.300           48.800          50.000
7I   - -8.0 S    6500              3,5            _95             So.onn
r . 2--9.0  , 95Q000            4.700     !     99700          so.nno
=9J1 = 1        130Q000 Q6500               ! 136500      so.no
I ..Q1- U..o        [175.00L        8.700          18s3a700   s o.n oO
I.1- 12.0           228X000         1 14_           23940o          so.non
l..1 >              295.000         15 000          310000
Note: Road management fees are compensation paid for damage caused to roads plus weighing service fees.
The road management fee is then multiplied by the distance covered by the vehicle from the point of origin. In
addition to the road management fee, a overloading fines of $50,000 is applied in accordance with the road
law.
Implementation Arrangements. The component will be implemented under the overall management of the
recently created DOT-Transport Control Division (TCD) and respective provincial branches the Transport
Control Units (TCU). The TCD will implement, monitor and revise the strategy. Monitoring will include
the establishment of a central database and data analysis. the TCD and TCUs will include highway patrols.
ProcurementArrangements. Due to the inexperience of DOT with IDA procurement rules, the
procurement of the civil works, equipment and consultant will be carried out by the more experienced staff
of DOR-PMD. However, the DOT-TCD will be involved in all procurement activities.
Financing Arrangements. NDF will co-finance all component activities as follows: weighing equipment.
vehicles, operating costs, and specialist services at 100 percent; and civil works for weigh-stations at 90
percent (GoL 10 percent).
- 44 -



Project Component 4 - US$0.63 million
B.) Comolete Establishment of Road ManaEement System. A framework for the establishment of a
comprehensive but simple and cheap to operate Road Management System (RMS) was carried out during
project preparation (Framework for Proposed Road Management System in Lao PDR, April 2000, on
project files). This framework was discussed again with the MCTPC in October 2000 and with limited
refinements was accepted.
Given the budget and technical constraints under which MCTPC operates, the goal of the RMS is to help
maximize its limited financial resources, and to ensure that maintenance is delivered where and when it is
needed. The RMS will cover all core functions associated with adequate road management system:
Planning, Programming, Preparation and Operations. Under RMP-1, the RMS will be established for the
NRN only, although its design will ensure that it is suitable for use on the LRN. Key elements of the RMS
will come from the LSRSP-II team who are focusing on the LRN and close cooperation will be promoted to
ensure that the system is suitable for the NRN and LRN roads. The figure below illustrates the overall
framework of the RMS for the NRN.
RMS Framework for NRN
TMS~~~~~~~M
T~~.fl~~~  I       I M~~avaement
Survey           Sy3tbm              pultion  System
IHDM    i
-45 -
R lghrms                           P or nrti"I'   i
_ S-rey __i
Tratfc                            ALnalysl ofi      Fes idbiElytKy Lk
Survey "                           ReaWsul       
_D                                R.I I   ne       I      s     }   Ian
SpedlisI   I            ain----tT 
Rld+t                                             #  
t   sS                  1      1      1  PM"|fflntlC         I 0"lan
mainnao  .oit, .0                             I  .l
Brldw   l   l  Rcutinr/    l  ~~~Evluto MSyse
-45-



The following briefly explains the main features of the proposed RMS:
Existing Management Systems - The RMS will be developed utilizing, when feasible, the
capacity of the existing systems that were previously developed, such as the internationally
known and Bank-endorsed Highway Design Model Version 4 (HDM-4), the Routine
Maintenance Management System (RMMS) and the Monitoring and Evaluation System
(MES) developed under the Sida-financed LSRSP-I.
Location Referencing System - The MCTPC have consolidated their existing system and
adopted a new location referencing system which will see each road assigned a unique road
code. The system will be used for all roads. Under the ongoing IDA-financed THIP, all
passable national and provincial roads will be referenced (note: referencing of the Provincial
Roads will be undertaken even if the RMS developed under RMP-l concerns only the NRN).
Traffic Volume Data - Regular traffic counting will be reinstated under RMP. Moving traffic
surveys will be conducted in parallel to the network reference/roughness surveys.
Road Conditions Surveys for Planning and Project Design- Regular network level surveys
will be undertaken under RMP. The first surveys will be done as part of the location
referencing survey financed under the ongoing IDA-financed THIP. A second condition survey
for essential data on sealed roads is proposed after two years. This survey will be done using
consultants, the Terms of Reference will be prepared by the MCTPC with the assistance of the
RMS Consultant. On the basis of the traffic volumes and observed changes in the road
network between surveys, a schedule for subsequent surveys will be established by MCTPC
based on recommendations of the RMS Consultant. MCTPC will also confirn the data
collection requirements for unpaved roads and the appropriate intervals for data collection
based on the analysis requirements from the RMS.
Software Requirements - A centralized road database (RDB), pavement management system
(PMS), bridge management system (BMS), traffic management system (TMS), routine
maintenance management system (RMMS), monitoring and evaluation system (MES) and
linkages between the various applications will be established. All software development will
be done so that they are stand alone applications (e.g. using common language such as Visual
Basic). All RMS applications will: (i) operate in both English and Lao language; (ii) have
user-selectable file options in English and Lao; and (iii) user-selectable report options and
on-line help in English and Lao.
(a) Road Database - A relational database which supports the location referencing and
road naming system will be established. The database will be developed in Microsoft
Access and be able to transform data as required by the various road management
system applications.
(b) Pavement Management System - A pavement management system using HDM4 for
prioritization of national roads, and a geographic-socio-economic criteria on the LRN
will be established.
(c) Routine Maintenance Management System - The RMMS software developed under
the LSRSP-I project will be used as the basis for this application. It has recently been
extended from its original LRN focus to include features allowing it to be used on the
NRN.
(d) Bridge Management System - A bridge management system, consisting of both a
-46 -



software application for prioritizing maintenance as well as appropriate data collection
procedures, will be made functional under RMP.
(e) Management and Evaluation System - The software developed under LSRSP-I will be
used as the basis for monitoring expenditure on contracts on the NRN and LRN. The
software will need to be converted to a stand-alone application and adapted for the
NRN. This work will be done under LSRSP-II.
(f) Traffic Management System - A software application will be developed under RMP for
storing and processing traffic count and axle load data.
Implementation Arrangements. The RMS will be established with a long-term sustainability objective.
The MCTPC has identified staff positions which will be assigned to support the RMS. The operation of the
RMS will be between DOR-DOR-PTD and DOR-RAD. DOR-PTD will operate the Traffic and Pavement
Management Systems; DOR-RAD will operate the Monitoring and Evaluation software and Routine
Maintenance and Bridge Management Systems. DOR-PTD will be responsible for managing the system,
ensuring that bugs are corrected, enhancements implemented, etc. Due to a lack of MCTPC expertise, IT
support for the software will be provided upon request by a consultant based in Vientiane that will be part
of the consultant team that will development of the RMS.
MCTPC will contract out the Road Condition Surveys but will operate the RMS in-house. To ensure that
this expertise is maintained for 4 years the RMS Consultant shall work with the DOR-PTD for 1 month
preparing the investment plan, 5-10 year maintenance program, retraining staff, and supporting the system.
Implementation Phasing. The RMS will be established under four phases:
Phase I: Location Reference Survey. This consists of carrying out the location reference
survey of the National and Provincial Roads. In order to accelerate the establishment of the
RMS, this activity is being carried out under the IDA-financed THIP.
Phase II: Road Management System Design and Implementation. The systems project will
establish the central database and implement the necessary supporting applications (PMS,
MMS, MES, BMS and TMS). An important component of this project will be training of the
MCTPC staff in procedures and operation of the RMS. This assignment will be carried out by
a consultant. Since the project will largely be focused on adapting existing systems and
developing interfaces, it is estimated that 8 months would be required. The team will include a
team leader/data specialist, systems analyst, transport economist, bridge engineer and a
programmer.
Phase III: Periodic Data Collection. The RMS will require regular data collection. The
frequency will be confirmed after a second survey of paved roads. The data collection may be
done by sub-contracting to consultants or, alternatively, by supporting the MCTPC to collect
the data themselves. The exact process will be confirmed during implementation of the RMS.
As described earlier, it is considered more sustainable to have the data collected by
consultants.
Phase IV: RMS Operation. Once the RMS is completed, there should be regular visits for
approximately I month/year of a technical specialist to assist with the ongoing application of
the system. IT support for the system from a consultant based in Vientiane for about 2 months
per year, to be supplied on an as-needed basis, will be provided for under the
RMS-development consultant contract.
- 47 -



Procurement Arrangements. All procurement activities under this component will be carried out by
DOR-PMD in close consultation with DOR-RAD and DOR-PTD. Procurement activities will include
provision of consultant services to design, implement and support the RMS using a QCBS procurement
method. Another consultancy contract will be issued for data collection on the NRN for a minimum of
three consecutive years using a Least Cost Selection procurement method. Using a single source selection
method, small contracts will also be used to carry out project level site investigation and detailed
engineering when needed. Finally, road condition survey equipment will be procured using international
shopping procedures.
Financing Arrangements. NDF will finance at 100 percent the consultancy assignments described under
Phase II and IV described above. IDA will finance at 100 percent the other consultancy assignments and
the equipment.
Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning (IRAP).
The development of the RMS will also be based on the Intemational Labor Organization (ILO)-developed
IRAP methodology which prioritizes access-improvement infrastructures for rural communities using
simple and easily verifiable indicators with regards to potable water supply, health dispensaries and
schools. Supported by UNDP and Sida, the methodology has been introduced successfully in 8 provinces
in Lao PDR including the selected provinces under RMP except Champassack. A very recent technical
review of the IRAP process and its road prioritization procedure, in relation to the LSRSP Road
Management and Maintenance System (RMMS), recommends integration of the IRAP methodology in the
RMMS. The review states that such integration will be mutually reinforcing and is expected to bring
together the significant attributes of the two approaches
Therefore, the objective of this sub-component is to introduce the IRAP methodology in Champassack and
to integrate the improved methodology in the RMS. Specifics objectives include:
*   To enhance the IRAP information generation and presentation procedures with the use of Global
Positioning System (GPS), digital imagery and improved computerized mapping technology;
*   To augment the governments road referencing and road development prioritization systems with the
IRAP technique and information;
*   To develop training modules and materials on community participation in rural road maintenance;
*   To build capacity of the field personnel of the DCTPC to conduct training programs on
community-based rural road maintenance schemes.
*   To have all roads in Champassak, classified and prioritized for rehabilitation or periodic and/or
routine maintenance with the use of the integrated local road management system.
Implementation Arrangements. Implementation will be the responsibility of the DOR Local Roads
Division (LRD) which will oversee the improvement, testing and application of the IRAP procedure and
monitor the implementation of prescribed activities of the project. This entails that the LRD establish and
develop effective conduits of technical assistance at provincial and district levels and make sure a standard
application is done to facilitate the integration of outputs into a national data management system. Support
to the LRD will be a joint responsibility of the ILO Advisory Support Information Services and Training
(ILO-ASIST) and Sida-financed LSRSP-II. To facilitate the application, an IRAP team from a nearby
province will be temporarily transferred and be based in the provincial DCTPC of Champassak. A
counterpart unit will be tasked to work with the IRAP team to acquire the technology and generate the
needed information. The Champassak team will then be tasked to apply, in collaboration with the district
DCTPCs, the road referencing and prioritization system being developed by the MCTPC. The team will
- 48 -



likewise build the capacity of the district DCTPCs to prepare the villages to participate in the planning,
decision-making, project implementation and maintenance of local roads.
Procurement Arrangements. All procurement activities under this component will be carried out by
DOR-LRD in close consultation with DOR-PMD. Procurement activities will include provision of
consultancy services hired locally based on consultant qualifications; administrative support (secretary),
and training and seminars. The ILO-ASIST will provide and fnance an international expert.
Financing Arrangements. IDA will finance consultancy and training activities at 100 percent and
operating costs at a declining rate of 60 percent during MP-1, 50 percent during MP-2 and 40 percent
during MP-3.
Project Component 5 - US$0.54 million
B.2 Assist Implementation of Road Maintenance Fund. This component consist of providing
specialized consultants that will assist the Road Maintenance Advisory Board and its Secretariat in
carrying out their activities. The nature of the assignment means that a flexible approach will need to be
taken to identify and meet the needs surrounding the implementation of the Road Maintenance Fund,
recognizing that these may change as the assignment proceeds. The following activities will be undertaken:
* Assist the RMF Secretariat to update and implement the operational procedures that covers
engineering, programming, procurement, financial and monitoring aspects.
3 Assist the Road Maintenance Advisory Board (RMAB) and its Secretariat in formulating and
undertaking a public awareness campaign related to the RMF.
U Undertake an institutional appraisal and training needs assessment of those parts of MCTPC
involved in administering the RMF, and of road administrations receiving money from the
fund. Recommend training and capacity building programs for these bodies to meet the needs
identified.
I Undertake capacity building and training of MCTPC and road administrations, based on the
above, as agreed with MCTPC.
*  Arrange twinning arrangements with similar road fund organizations in other countries and
study tours.
*  Develop a long-term strategy for the development of a local contracting and consulting
industry capable of producing good quality works at reasonable prices.
Procurement Arrangements. The following procurement activities will be carried out by DOR-Project
Monitoring Division (PMD). An individual consultant will be hired to carry out the task described above.
As this assignment is urgent, it will be hired prior to the RMP-1. In addition, the Secretariat will recruit a
Secretary, an Audit-Review Manager and a Finance Manager. These professionals will be hired locally and
paid at market rates. Once the Secretariat is officially established, it will procure any consultancy
assignment for technical and financial audits and capacity building including twinning arrangements with
other road funds, associated activities and training.
Financing Arrangements. Until RMP-1 is effective, the contract for the provision of consultancy services
to RMF will be financed under the ongoing IDA-financed THIP. When RMP-I becomes effective, the
remaining cost of the contract will be financed under NDF Credit. Twinning arrangement expenditures,
study tours and training will be financed by IDA at 100 percent.
-49 -



Project Component 6 - US$0.76 million
B.3 Improve Project Preparation. Execution and Monitoring (NDF-Sida-financed). RMP will help
develop institutional capacity to manage projects. Under RMP- 1, consultant services will be provided to
DOR-Project Monitoring and Disbursement Divisions and the DCTPCs of the four selected provinces to
assist and develop internal capacity in managing technical and financial aspects of the projects. English
language training will be continued under the RMP program, with a special emphasis on the provincial
DCTPCs. Study tours, workshops and seminars, as well as fellowships focusing on the financial and
operational management experiences of the road authorities of neighboring countries will enhance the
additional transfer of knowledge. Lastly, RMP will provide operational support to the newly established
Information Archive and Conference Center (IACC), which is responsible for the continuous updating of
the information management systems, fees for access to intemational databases and procurement of
reference materials.
Procurement Arrangements. The services will be procured in three different packages. First, a specialist
with extensive project management experience in the road sector will be recruited as an individual
consultant. Second, a financial management specialist will be provided under the LSRSP-II. Third, the
PMD will recruit specialists to carry out annual technical and financial audits.
Financing Arrangements. NDF will finance at 100 percent the project management specialist and
technical auditor. IDA will finance at 100 percent the consultant services for project financial audits. Sida
will finance at 100 percent the consultant services for the financial management specialist.
Project Component 7 - US$0.02 million
B.4 Develop Strateev to Improve Performance of Local Contracting and Consultin' Industry. RMP
will support the development of the local contracting and consulting industry. Under RMP-I, the initial
focus will be to assist the creation of a Contractors Association (CA). As a second step, the Government
and the CA will jointly establish a long-term strategy for the development of an industry capable of
producing good quality works at reasonable prices. The strategy will include a review of the policy,
administration and management processes: contracts types, duration, sizes, procurement procedures,
payment modalities; a rating system to identify good and bad performers along with a revision of the
existing pre-registration system. The strategy will also include an assessment of the contractors training
needs to be implemented under RMP. To a lesser extent, RMP-1 will also support the development of the
consulting industry in contracting out the provision of services related to road data collection, material
testing, pavement investigations and similar activities. The strategy will be supported under RMP-2.
ProcurementArrangement. The tasks described above will be carried out by the specialist who will assist
the road maintenance fund establishment and operation (ref.: component b.2).
- 50 -



Project Component 8 - US$0.05 million
B. 5 Involve Road Users-Beneficaries in Road Maintenance Activities. RIMP will foster the involvement
of the road users and beneficiaries in the delivery and management of road maintenance activities. Under
RMP- 1, consultant services will be provided to help establish a road users association and establish and
implement a strategy to involve villages of the four selected Provinces in the maintenance of their roads.
Among other initiatives, the development of small-scale community contractors (Village Road Support
Committee) will also be pursued.
Procurement and Financial Arrangements. The consultants services will be provided under the
LSRSP-II financed at 100 percent by Sida.
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A 1 Periodic Maintenance                                  7.09        18.00        25.09
A.2 Routine Maintenance                                   8.53         2.16        10.69
A.3 Heavy Transport Management                            0.62         2.23         2.85
B.1 Road Maintenance System                               0.12         0.49         0.61
B.2 Road Maintenance Fund                                 0.20         0.30         0.50
B.3 Project Preparation, Execution & Monitoring           0.10         0.62         0.72
B.4 Contracting & Consulting Industry                     0.00         0.02         0.02
B.5 Road Users                                            0.00         0.05         0.05
Total Baseline Cost                                      16.66        23.87        40.53
Physical Contingencies                                   1.55         1.85         3.40
Price Contingencies                                      2.72         1.15         3.87
Total Project Costs             20.93        26.87        47.80
Total Financing Required             20.93        26.87         47.80
Works                                                      19.60        21.35         40.95
Goods                                                      0.04           1.30         1.34
Services                                                   0.87          3.84          4.71
Operating Costs                                            0.42          0.38          0.80
Total Project Costs    20.93         26.87        47.80
Total Financing Required    20.93          26.87        47.80
- 52 -



La. POR
R.ad Ma-tenance Pregnan
ExPandloanas tn Flnsaole (U#S Million)
Base  Cant  Total         ognt             H IDA   1      SHDA    Y      NDF    Y   Procuremeet
Total         o.oont      Total  Cant    ToOI   IDA    Total  SIDA   Tota   NDF Typo
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECTS                                   40.62    7.28  47.00       16.01  3eY  -  26o0  62%        1.12  2%       5.16  11%
A. PRESERVATION OP ROAD NETWORKS                            380.2    7.17  40.00       16.46  36%  _  24.31  6M        0.06  2%       4.07  0%
A 1   Poetedlo Malatananna                                  26.09    4.22  29.31    -   2.76  0%       24A11  O2%      0.0   3%        1.40  6%
A 1 N   PM on Nounnal Roado                                 17.23    3.10  20. =        2.00  10%      182t   0%          -  0%              0%
AI"N    War/s                                                1S 87    300   1003        1 99  10%       17 04  90%        -               -       NCR
Al N2   Sapnrsteioe(a                                         015    0 02   0.17        0.00             017  100%        -               -       Ind. C-n (lcal)
AIN3   V-hiclesi                                              00    0 00   0.09            -             00   100%        -               -       APSO
A 1.D4 Operarog Costs c                                      0 tt    0 01    0. 12      0.00  50%       000  50%          -               .        OtCon-act
Al  NS   Oc. Equlp e  upplie Id                              n 00    0 00   0.0         0 00  10%        0+02  00%        _                       DrCo-nact
Al L    PMonLe . L Rod .                                     C44    1.06   7.4    -   0.0  0%   -    .3  70%           0.0   12%          -  0-
AIL1   Wotkrk e                                              4 60   0933   0.73         0 57  10%        5.10  90%        -               -       NCB
AlL2    Sunetrvson                                           0 90    000    08             .               .            0 9e  100%        -         CBS
Al L3    V,hKcln/n                                          0D24    00C0   0.25                         0.25  100%        -              -        IAPSO
A1l L    O fOice Snppe yg                                    0 04    000   0.04         000             0.04  90%         -               -       Natl Sheppcna
A.1 L5    0sao  M.ce..n                                      030    0.04    0.4         003  10%        031  00%          _               ,       NaUShlnU
A 1.L 8    opn-otig Costs h                                  0 15   0.01    06          00 0 H  50%     0 De  50%         -               -       Dir Cenract
A.1 C Con-aoPreap-W.on       M nd Mceitnim                    1.42    0.07    19        0.00  M%                       _               1A   100%  QCSA-nd Cent
A2   Roadna Malntaaaooo                                      10.89   2.72   13.41   _  13.37  100%  -   0.04  0%              0%          -  0%
A 2 N   RM n Naoao Roodo                                     a.77   2.00  12.27   -  1224  100%         0.03  0%           -  0%          -  0%
A2N 2    Works                                                9 72    2 49   12.21      12 21  100%                        -                      50% NCB, 30% Lcl shop
A.32N 2   Opertng Co..                                        0 06    001    .C06       0 03  50%        0 03  550%       _                       D,, Contact
A2L   RM on Ln-al RadO M                                     0.91    0.23    1.14   -   1.13  00%       0.01  1%           -  0%          -  0%
A2L1    Wo-   s                                               0.90    022    1.12        112 100%          -               -              -       OnCeetnact
A 2 L.2    o,-nrabg Ct A                                      0D01    0.00   0.01       0 01  50%        0.01  50%         -                      DI, Contact
A.3   M..ovy Trospo-pt M-not lo-t Peg-a  (PTMPP              2A6   0.23   306    -   0.33  11%  -   0.18   %               -  0%       206  W4%
AS 1   Wo-kt                                                  1.43    010    1CO   -   0.16  10%  _        -  0%           -  0%       1A44  80%
A31 1   P-ortannnstotini                                      049    008    0.00        008  10%                          -            050  90%  NC8
A 3 12    Ly by                                              0.94   0.12   100          0 11  10%                                      0 95  90%  NCB
A. 92   Eqalpatat                                            0.60   0.01    0.60   -       -  0Y   _       _  0%           -  0%       0.00  100%
A.S 2 1   Penr-ant Selation sc-les (P                         0 25    0.00   0.2                                                        D -  025  100%  iel Shopping
A.3 2 2    M0bloe.colns /q                                    0 25    0 00   02.           -               -              -            0 28  100%  Itt Sheppleg
A3.3   Ae.-ftancor.HTMPr                                      023    001    0.24        050                -              -            024  100%  Ind Coen  (i-ntl)
A 354   Office Sappiles is                                    007    0.00   0.07        0.D1               -              -            0.00  90%  Nod Shopping
A35   Vehclesi t                                              0 33   000   0. 3 O .                                                    0 33 1o0%  WPSO
A 3.0   operatng Ca.s la                                      0 30   0 03   0.33        0 is  50%       0a1   60%                         -       Dir Co.-act
B. STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAI. CAPACITY                     1.00   0.11   320          0.06  O% -    .6  30%          0.16  0%        1.00  541%
01      CmPlot. Esabllaheant  RMS                            0861    o3    0.63         0.02  3%        0.17  20%         -  0%        0.46  71%
0Y 1 1    Ose.ritinplertnnesnport RMS                        0 o43    02   0.40        20 n                                             D 045 100%  QCBS
B 1 2    IRAP TA                                              0 03   0.00   0.62                        0 03 100%                         -       Ied Cent
1 3      IRAP Trai-ng                                        003    0.                                  003  1i00%                                Dir C- ntoct
014      Read CondltponSv So                                 0 05    05 0    0.0        0.00            0 05 100%                 -               LCS
R 1 5    Road Coedi-on Suavey Equlenten                      004      0     0.04 o                       0 04 100%        -               -       in11 Shopping
S10 O6 eratmo` Cste                                           0 04    0 00   0.04       0 02  50%       0 02  50%         -               -       D, Colnoct
8.2     Aalat RMF Op.-"...s                                 0.0    0 04   0. 6         0.03  6%        0.27  60%             0%       0.2  40%
021      A.sist RMAAB ad Ser -tanolA                         0 23   0 01    0.24        0 00               -                            D 0.24  100%  Id Cent (ind)
822      s-crena  offltt                                     018    002   0.10             -            01s  100%         -               -       led. Cent (local)
0.2 3    Operat9 Coet                                         0 05    00   0o6          0 03  50%        0.03  50%        -               -       Dir Contract
0.24     stly Tairrn.ic Amange-nnt                            0.0    000   o0o.         0.00            0.05  100%                                D" Cool/et
Ea      lIp-on P-eJ... Pepar.on. t          Aooolo  0MonIcnllO  0.72   O0S   0.7t       0.01  1%   -    .26  a4%       0.11  14%       0.30  t0%
03.1     Pr(eclgnt -ndMon-onnogl                              031    002    033         000                -              -            033  100%  hd Censp(ld)
8 a32 7     ancialalg.tnd Menionng                           0 10    0.01   0.11         00                -           0 11  100%        -        QBs (SIDA)
. 32     Prejoclt Fieeiol Audt                                002   0.00   0.62         0.00            0 02 100%         -               -       LCS
83A.      ProJeclTochnic-iAud                                005    0.00    00          0.00               -              -            0.05  100%  led Cons (p.
B 35     Ce rnotg CotS                                        0 02   0.00    0.02       0 01  50%       0 01  50%         --                      O,Dr Ceetract
8a35     H.umotRaoeo   Donaloptont                           0.0    0.0   0.22   -   on    0%   - -   022  1o%             -  0%          -  0
030.1      Fell-Ntpo0 010    0.50   0.10                                                   -            010  100%                                ,Dr Contract
B 3 .2      ngl/sh Lanuagn Troi-ng                            005    0 00   0.06        0 00             0 05  100%       -               -       D, C-t-act
8303       StudyTour                                          003    000    0.03           .             003  100%        -               -       D.Contract
8a.4       Worls4I,op  -/otuinars                             0.02    000    0.02          -            002  100%         -               -       DirCoatr.ct
8.3 h      ordo-nol SunPPn fr, /ACC                           0 02    0 00  o02            -             0.02  100%       -               -       Dir Co.tracl
B04     Looal Coefln  & Ces...nlog Inda-u to                 0.02    0.00   0 2                                                        on2 100%  Ind. Cons (RMF)
5       RoPvad Ua.dbaaolaee/aa                               0       0.00   0.o    o                                   0 0.00  100%       -        O2S (SIDA)
B 51      203d use-s
a 5.2    C -nrnoit9yi-tn-ement
a  coos a@50 hOll/mo   1 S .,000 pe.,rno
o4 4WD (2 RAD. 2 MCTPCI 2 -to-las tar R2AD
tl estirtats fbr 0OR-RAD
4 -Icludos c-erte/nterfa and eqoiP cste ler DOR-RAD (c.heci tacos
in In pear ott - 80 $00.000 tot ecy II distrtyt contnuct to RM Ot LRNr Vv0 cnrirbute $5 3    PM or LRN. th.s 3 Ore lte MF-2. MP-3
0 9 4WD (2 pot Penv) o-I 41 motoibke- (050 pet oDscct)
\o 2 corepsrs- photoconier. flo and phod (S0 0.000 per pr-/n-cn) (chock lIns)
'630 district otficet @00.000/each
WS eB-rets to ffn.co OCTPCs oPerobeg costs onadeclin-g basis - 00% 1st ye. 40% 2nd Yr. 20% 3nd yr = 47% oftotal coot tar S3 Yn
819 epre-ta sO51000 P.enOnncer.Y..r
i/t 4  rahttes - tectades emergency meattenacco
01,0W pem pnce (4) nor near
Ir Tesh A-stloW DOR-RAD (2 epnat fort30 ttrrm  f.rGOO.000. 1  f.pothor l rato tr8s15s.000: 2 10cal engineers tr 36 sta/rent lorS144.000) =S994000
In 7  as-ns 0 870.000 (045.000 hor read & 025,000 fot btdo)
oa 17 laUibpa @050 05/na (530.000 ftr ro& 925.000 for bidg)
Ip 7 prermanet eiih scales 0.. 035.000/seaSon
t, 14 ..I. o moti-e acalet    .lhlotO/set
Y1 yr plus Smo 0412.000/ma
is S4.000 lee poIn st.o.sos2.000 1-n laybys (includes 17 getMr,tars (on por prviPce Slot ..or .r.ett) and arirn te 9 p-erreae-t)
\5 13 4-t (B penm 0 pt. 2 DOT-TCD) a 022.000We. 1 cycles  (120 c) pMt piro (9). At m4 raialdies. 1 per p-n-anen staaot) @2.000/no
/a Inerodne costs to So cotnfirmead
W 23 stl/o (ent)a0 20.000 n 13 inaniy P(0I..D 03.000
i  a e    -m n(mo OS12.000
I Scecetty - 38 sttre-o   S2.000, Tcc..i.aIl Manager- -  st hrmo@  S1.000. 2 acco....s.  3   /ff-o @D 750mo
WrTAI PMD - 24 slt-ero@ r1 2.000
s strtegy to denong bocal co- -ctin0 & consahing induetrr
ma stottIrePeer P1 Rooda Users Annocinoon
Identifiable taxes and duties are 4.2 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 43.6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 57.34% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Summary of the Periodic Maintenance Component
This annex summarizes the economic evaluation for the Periodic Maintenance (PM) component of the RMP.
Given its peculiar nature, the component has been evaluated on the basis of a conventional highway
cost-benefit methodology, but the results of the evaluation have been used to establish the criteria for the
selection of the road works to be financed under the RMP.
The component accounts for more than 60 percent of the total investment of Phase I, and more than 95
percent of the IDA credit. The economic evaluation is based on the economic analysis which was carried out
in February 2000, within the framework the 10 Year Rolling Periodic Maintenance Plan (lOYRPMP), which
aimed to evaluate and define the basic road maintenance strategies for the NRN and identify a priority works
program.
The basic data, main assumptions, the approach used in the evaluation and its results are summarized in the
following sections. Details of the economic analysis are present in the 1 OYRPMP report, which is available
in the project files. The fiscal implications of the whole RMP, which are of greater significance given the
importance of the Road Fund in macroeconomic terms, are discussed in Annex 5.
Methodology
Overview
The WB-endorsed Highway Design Model (HDM) was used to define and evaluate the basic road
maintenance strategy to be followed under the RMP. The model was used to: (i) simulate road deterioration
and the frequency of maintenance operations for each fundamental road section; (ii) simulate Vehicle
Operating Costs (VOC) on these sections; (iii) make comparisons between the different treatment options for
road maintenance; and (iv) identify the maintenance programs over the next 10 years on the base of standard
economic viability criteria such as the economic rate of return (EIRR) and the Net Present Value (NPV).
The use of the HDM model is based on technical and economic parameters that include road geometry, the
nature of the soil and road degradation, driving conditions, road maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs,
traffic counts, and existing road maintenance strategy. In order to execute the HDM model, the following
steps have been undertaken.
1. Selection of the road trunks to be evaluated based on pavement and sub-structure conditions,
assessed through a visual condition survey.
2. Breaking down of the selected trunks into homogeneous sections (each of about 20 km of length) on
the basis of traffic, pavement type, and the level of deterioration of the sections.
3. Definition of possible maintenance treatments - resulting from the combinations of typical
maintenance works - within the 10 years time framework.
4. Estimate of the VOC on the base of roughness and of the maintenance costs on the base of the
information collected by RAD.
5. Execution of HDM.
For each possible maintenance treatment, the HDM model simulated the evolution of road deterioration and
the resulting VOCs according to the expected traffic levels as well as the resulting maintenance costs. This
information has then been used to compute the standard economic indicators (i.e. EIRR, NPV). On the basis
of these economic indicators the different combination of maintenance treatments were evaluated within the
- 54 -



constraint of the available resources, and optimal maintenance strategies identified.
Basic Data and Main Assumptions
A total of 2023 km of paved roads and about 500 km of unpaved roads was visually analyzed and 1311
homogenous sections identified on the basis of road characteristics. Only roads deemed to be in
"maintainable" conditions have been considered. The traffic data used were mainly those collected by the
recent technical assistance supported by the ADB (ADB 3070). In some cases these data were updated by
specific surveys conducted during the preparation of the 1 OYRPMP. The Road conditions assumed for the
analysis were four for the paved roads: Good, Fair, Poor, Bad. The physical characteristics used in the HDM
model to categorize roads under these four conditions are presented in the following table (Table 4. 1).
Table 4.1 - Coding for Pavement Conditions
Roughness (IRI)           3.0  -        4 7           6.6          9.0
.Arr-aall cracks. %/        0,          10.0      _   3.0          4.0
.Wide cracks. %  ~        0           _  5.0          17.0           .
Area of potboles,           0    _       0.1          0.5          L
R ave I Ie db              0             0.0         33.0         S0.0
Rut depth, nim                           I 0O         25   _       50
For unpaved roads, insufficient data were collected on surface material properties to allow meaningful
analysis with HDM. The optimal treatment policy was determined as regravelling on a four-year cycle with
consistent annual routine maintenance and grading at least twice a year.
For the estimation of the VOC, seven vehicle categories have been considered in the HDM model. The input
for the HDM are based on the characteristics of the vehicles and other data such as fuel, lubricants, tires and
spare part prices, and vehicle utilization factors.
Details of the inputs used by the MCTPC and the RAD in the application of HDM are presented in the ADB
3070 report and in its annexes. The following table (Table 4.2) summarizes the VOC inputs for the seven
different categories of vehicles.
Table 4.2 - Vehicle Operating Costs Inputs
IGs Vchic i .- l0fWih (t       18    2.3      8    508    14   20,5    27 1
ESAI Factor per Ych.(E4)        0    0 01    0.5    0.1    1 5    4.5    7.5
Number of Axics                 2      2      2      2      2      3      5
Numbcr of Tires                 4 _    4      6      6      6      10    IB
Nurnb,, o,f Perl,cr nrs       25  25  3_            0      0      0      0
Service Life (v)               12    10       0     10    12    10I    10
Hours DrivcnpcrYcar           375    625   1000   8000   000    2004  1300
Km Driven per Ycar          15,000  25,000  40,000  30,000  40,000  45000  5000
Dcpreciatinn Code               2      2      2      2      2      2      2
Cstilioat,on Code _IdI                 I      I      I      I      I       I
Annual Interst0aRec'n 1.)  I    2      2     12     12      2      2      12
Nse Vohicle pricc (5)       20,000  19,500       2,00 2  4,501  68,00  86000
New Tire price (S)             65    77    110    05    121    242    242
Mainten-nec Labor ($/hrl        I      I      I      I      I      I       I
Crew Cost (S/creo-h,)          0.5   0.       I      I      I      I      I
Pascs.ger Tone($/pa-h0)       0                     11 0 0    0.0 I0(  0 IS    0 10   0.10
Cargo Time($1vch-hr)(I                 0      0 10          0      0      0
Gas/Petrol price ($/lt)      0.22    0 22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.22
Diesel pr,u.  (SOls)          0.22  0t.22   0.22   0,22   0.22   0.22   0.22
Lubricants price ($1It)        1.5     l.1. I5              5     ).5    1.5
- 55 -



A set of six maintenance treatments have been defned for the pavcd roads taking into account past and
current experience in Laos and the technical and financial capability of the enterprises performing road
maintenance work. All the strategies took into account the cost of basic routine maintenance, which consists
in usual routine maintenance activities such as clearing culverts and drainage, cleaning shoulders and
patching at least 50 percent of potholes.
The six types of maintenance treatments and the respective unit costs as computed by RAD are presented in
the following table (Table 4.3).
Table 4.3 - Unit Costs of Maintenance Treatments for Paved Roads
R -ins t t m mnt                              780
The 2023 km of paved roads considered in the economic evaluation represent about 60 percent of the NRN.
For the purpose of the 1 OYRPMP, the roads that were either under construction/rehabilitation or were due to
be rehabilitated by the time of program inception have been categorized as "good". This assumption made
such that 66 percent of the 2023 km of paved roads considered by the I OYRPMP were categorized as in
good shape, 10 percent in fair conditions, 12 percent respectively in poor and bad shape.
The objective function of the HDM application was to minimize the road transport costs (the aggregate of
road user costs and agency costs) within the constraint of a given budget for maintenance whilst limiting
further deterioration of the road infrastructure. The main savings are expected to come in the forrn of VOC
savings, time savings and savings on the future maintenance costs.
The application of the treatments mentioned above to of the homogeneous sections has been simulated.
Maintenance costs were estimated in economic terms. Vehicle characteristics and unit costs were defined for
typical vehicle classes. VOCs for motorcycles have been assumed as 20 percent of those of a car. And
regards ADT estimates motorcycles were considered in the ADT values only for some sections. Tuk-tuks
have been excluded given their utilization mainly in the urban context.
The traffic growth percentage assumed was at 7 percent for all the vehicle classes. This figure was been
calculated by PTD in early 1999. Calculation is presented in the paper "General Traffic Forecast for Lao
PDR for the years 1998 - 2010, PTD, Jan 8, 1999". According to the paper, a slightly lower percentage for
heavy traffic should be used, and a somewhat higher for cars and pick-ups. However, the flat rate of 7
percent offered the advantage of simplicity.
The HDM evaluation provided the identification of the best maintenance treatment acceptable from both an
engineering and economic perspective. All the strategies included basic routine maintenance on selected road
sections consisting of patching at least 50 percent of potholes.
Results
For the purpose of evaluating the RMP the HDM model provided the estimates of the minimum traffic
thresholds that would ensure that the Periodic Maintenance treatments are economically viable, namely EIRR
above 12 percent. The results, summarized in Table 4.4, give the estimated minimum traffic volumes at
- 56 -



which the various treatments are likely to be justified.
Table 4.4 - Economic Analysis Results for Paved Roads
200-400
Immcdiate Repairs and Reseal,                                              N/A
Shape Correction and Reseal                                      -              N/A
40 mm Asphalt concrete Overlay                                                >1000
70 mm Asphalt Concrete Overlay                                                >1000
Re-instatement                                                                  N/A
Reseal                                                                       100-200
Immediate Repairs and Reseal                                                 100-200
Shape Correction and Reseal                                                400-1000
40 rmrs Asphalt concrete Overlay                                              >1000!
70 mm Asphalt Concrete Overlay                                                >1000
Rc-instatementNA
Reseal                                                                            NM
mmediate Repairs and Reseal,                                                  100-20(
Shape Correction and Reseal                                                   200-401
0 mm Asphalt concrete Overlay                                               400-100(
70 num  Asphalt Concrete Overlay                                            400-1_00(_
c-instatement                                                                 >1006
Reseal                                                                         N/
Shape Correction and Reseal                                                       N/A
Immediate Repairs and Reseal,                                                    NIA
40 mnm Asphalt concrete Overlay                                              400-10
70 mnm Asphalt Concrete Overlay                                              400-1000
Re-instatement                                                                  >1000
These results were used in the project design as criteria for selecting the Periodic Maintenance works in the
framework of the 1 OYRPMP which will be financed by the program. All PM works selected for financing
must meet the minimum traffic thresholds, with priority given to roads with the highest traffic levels.
As long as the selection of PM works follows the minimum traffic threshold criteria and priority is given to
the roads with highest traffic levels, the average ERR for the Periodic Maintenance Component of RMP
component would be well above 12 percent. Below is the first year maintenance program based on the
results of the economic analysis using the HDM 3 Manager.
Table 4.5 - Periodic Maintenance Works
Contract Package No.       Road    Works          Work           Cost
No.    Length                      Estimate    ADT       ERR    ERR "t    NPV
(kin)($000)
PHOI-MP1-PM-NRO0           IB      45          Regravelling    407             75      47.9    27.588     0.758
LNOI-MPI-PM-NRO2           3       30          Resealing       700            222      14.7    2.393      0.061
BLOI-MPI-PM-NRO3           13S    50           Resealing       860            900      24.3    12.184     0.215
LPOI-MPI-PM-NRO4           IC      50          Resealing       975            225      13.1     1.222     0.033
XBOI-MPI-PM-NRO5           4       40          Regravelling    440             80      50.5    31.086     0.972
VTOI-MPI-PM-NRO6           10      15          Resealing       292.5         1795      94.9    75.297     4.076
KHOI-MPI-PM-NR07           13S    20           Resealing       390            850      44.1    31.109     0.973
CHOI-MPI-PM-NRO8           16E    20           Resealing       390            300      15.0     3.310     0.758
St01-MPI-PM-NRO9           5       50          RegTavelling    550             56      27.1    12.208     0.405
TOTAL                              320                         5,004.5
a/ for detailed information on road sections to be maintained, refer to table in Annex 2.
b/ 20% increase in agency cost and 20% reduction in VOC
- 57 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Fiscal and Financial Analysis
1. Introduction
The purpose of this analysis is to evaluate the impact of the Road Maintenance Program on GoL finances
and the sustainability of the proposed road maintenance financing mechanisms. The analysis takes into
account: (a) the Government's current fiscal situation; (b) sector related expenditure, revenue and the
resources required to maintain road assets; (c) the incremental taxes that would result from the program;
and (d) the fiscal and financial aspects of the Road Maintenance Fund. In particular, the analysis aims to
clarify the impact of the latter in terms of government budget flexibility and revenue-generating capacity.
2. Government Revenue and Expenditure overview
In the past three years, while seemingly increased in current Kip terms, total tax and non-tax revenue has
fallen significantly in real terms. In US dollar terms, total revenue for 1998/99 was targeted at $167 million
(around 13 percent of GDP) but achievement was only $143 million (11 percent of GDP). The target for
1999/00 has been set at 12 percent of the GDP. The expenditure in US dollar terms for fiscal year 1998/99
totaled $275 million (22 percent of GDP).
Once more, to limit the deficit, the Government has drastically reduced current expenditures, which are
now at 5 percent of GDP, down from the 11 percent average of the previous five years. In particular,
wages and salaries of Government workers have fallen significantly - both in real terms and as percentage
of GDP (from 5 percent in FY 1994/95 to 2 percent in FY 1998/99). Capital expenditure exceeded 75
percent of total spending (17 percent of GDP). The overall deficit was financed through approximately
US$160 million in foreign grant and loan disbursement.
For the current fiscal year (FY 1999/00) the expenditure target has been set at 18 percent of GDP and
capital expenditure is budgeted to decline to less than 70 percent of the total (12 percent of GDP).
Recurrent expenditure will therefore remain at around 5 percent of GDP. This allocation is unlikely to be
sufficient to maintain the existing stock of physical capital asset. Moreover, the margin of maneuver for a
realignment between capital and current expenditure allocation seems to be limited as foreign funding for
1999/00 is budgeted at about US$150 million and counterpart funding for externally financed projects will
likely continue to be GoL's priority. The following table (Table 5.1) presents the overview of Government
finances in local currency and as a percentage of the GDP.
Table 5.1 - Government Finances for fiscal years 1997/98-1999/00
1997/98             1998/99              1999I00^)
(tlSS m)   (GDP %)    (US$ m)   (GDP %)    (USS m)   (GDP %)
Total revenue    135.9    11.2%        143.4    11.3%      224.0    12.4%
Tax           108.6     8.9%       111.3     8.8%       183.5     10.2%
Non-tax        27.3     2.2%        32.1     2.5%        40.5     2.3%
Grants            70.3     5.8%        68.5     5.4%        93.6     5.2%
Total Expenditure    328.2    26.9%   275.2    21.7%       324.0    18.0%
Current        99.1     8.1%        68.8     5.4%        97.2     5.4%
Capital       229.1     18.8%      206.4    16.3%       226.8     12.6%
Balance          -122.0   -10.0%       -63.3    -5.0%       -6.4    -0.4%
Total financing   122.0    10.0%       63.3     5.0%         6.4    -0.4%
Domestic       39.8     3.3%        -8.6    -0.7%       -41.3    -2.3%
Foreien        82.2     6.7%        71.9     5.7%        47.7     2.7%
(a) World Bank Staff projections.
- 58 -



The World Bank and other financial institutions (IMF, ADB) have expressed their concern regarding this
trend of expenditure compression and in particular regarding the sustainability of the actual level of
recurrent expenditure. Moreover, they stress the need of increasing government revenues through a series of
fiscal reforms, which should focus on enhancing revenues so that key government services can be provided
without inflationary financing. Priority should be given to the improvement of tax collection, which has
been limited by weak institutional capacity.
3. Road Sector Revenue and Expenditure
Road sector contribution to general revenue, which during the past years was on average as much as 13
percent of total revenues, declined in 1998/99 to a 7 percent share (1 percent of GDP). This sector
contribution includes import duties, excises and turnover taxes on vehicles and fuel. Revenue contribution
in terms of fees and penalties declined even more, because these have remained fixed in Kip termns, and
hence contributed in real terms only a third of the previous FY yield.
Given that the retail fuel price has been kept artificially low by waiving some taxes or maintaining them at
the same level in Kip terms, the contribution of fuel taxes to total revenue dropped from 4.8 percent in
1997/98 to about 0.2 percent in 1998/99. Current retail fuel prices per liter are now, on average, $ 0.25,
$0.29, and $0.33 for diesel, regular and super, respectively. This makes pump prices in Vientiane $0.08 to
$0.09 cheaper per liter in comparison across the Mekong River at Nong Kai. In addition, exemptions to
taxation further amplify the reduction in the revenue yield. Consequently, fuel taxes have become a
marginal fraction of the tax base.
Conversely, road sector share of expenditure has continued to absorb a majority share of the Country's
development budget. During fiscal year 1998/99, capital outlays for this sector absorbed 28 percent of the
total capital expenditure (about $ 40 million). The sector budget is heavily driven by foreign-funded
projects which account for more than 90 percent of all spending, mainly for new investment. Local funds
account for less than 10 percent of sector and more than 70 percent of these is committed as counterpart
project funding. Plans, although not firm, seem to substantiate if not enhance these trends towards an
expansion of investments. Capital commitments for the road sector will continue as a heavy share of the
budget thus leaving scarce resources to be allocated for crucial maintenance activities. The following table
outlines sector-related revenue and expenditure.
Table 5.2 - Road Sector Revenue and Expenditure for fiscal years 1997/98-1999/00
(US$ million)
1997898    199      1999/2000 
Total Revenue                    135.9     143A        224.0
Road Sector Rev. contbution     16.5      11.2        11.8
o/w Vehicle contribution     10.0       11.0        11.6
o/w Fuel contribution         6.5        0.2         0.2
Total Expenditure ncl Grants)   328.2      275.2       324.0
Road Sector expemditue         36.3       26.6        53.1
Capital outlay               34.1       20.9        45.0
Maitenance                    2.2        5.7        2.4
a/WoddBank sMafl'pnj=Uions
The table clearly indicates a sustained fall in Road Sector contributions to Total Revenue. In particular the
minimal contribution of the fuel-related taxes. On the expenditure side, it should be noted the mentioned
compression of government expenditure in recent years did not affect the sector. This has been due to
continued assistance from the donors.
- 59 -



These data confirm the decrease in the overall level of sector taxation on both vehicles and, particularly,
fuel. Given the unsustainability of such low levels of funding dedicated to the maintenance and
conservation of the road assets - a preliminary allocation of US$ 2.3 million (Kip 18 billion) vs. a
minimum requirement of US$ 15.5 million (Kip 118 billion) - a new balance between capital and current
expenditure in the sector is required.
The required increase in sector-related taxation and the rebalance in expenditure allocation will be best
achieved through the introduction of road user charges dedicated to road maintenance, to be channeled
through the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) as described in the next section. Such measures will improve
the overall fiscal performance of the country and at the same time will reduce only marginally the
Government's overall revenue-generating capacity. In addition, the marginal loss of macroeconomic
maneuver is definitely less important than the gains from a clearer link between fuel prices and the level
and quality of the road services.
4. RIF Financial Mechanisms and Sustainability
Given the major budget constraints faced, it is unlikely that the Government could generate sufficient
additional financial resources for road maintenance from its current limited taxation system or reallocate
funds from another sector. For this reason, the Government decided to establish, in the framework of the
RMP, a mechanism such as the RMF that would generate new funds, thus ensuring an adequate, stable and
sustainable flow of funds for the maintenance and preservation of the road assets.
Road maintenance funds have recently been adopted by several countries. They treat roads in a similar
manner to other utilities, such as telecommunications, electricity and water, where users pay according to
their consumption. This principle can be applied to the road sector where users pay an "access" charge
through an annual license or vehicle registration fee and then pay a "utilization" charge through a levy on
the fuel price.
The appropriateness of such a financing system in the context of Lao PDR has been discussed during the
past years through a series of workshops, economic studies, and study tours. As a result, it was recognized
that the establishment of the road maintenance fund was feasible and desirable in the context of Lao PDR.
The key principles and elements of a road maintenance fund, taking into account the existing administrative
system of the country, have been identified and a financial plan prepared, taking into account the road
maintenance needs, the macroeconomic context of the country and its budgetary situation.
To avoid the disastrous consequences on the road network caused by maintenance backlog, the minimum
funding requirements have been estimated at an initial level of about US$15.5 million for the FY 2001/02.
Due to the ongoing expansion of the network and the inclusion in the maintenance plans of the roads built
in recent years, the needs would increase to US$ 16.2 million and US$ 16.6 million respectively for FY
2002/03 and 2003/4, to stabilize at an annual level of about US$ 17 million by the fourth year of RMF
operations. Required maintenance expenditures are therefore expected to be substantially higher than
current and past allocations (including donors' contributions), therefore requiring that additional resources
in the range of US$ 10 million a year be raised.
Major revenue sources under the proposed RMF will be road user charges which would include a Fuel
Levy (FL), a Heavy Vehicle Surcharge (HVS), penalties, overloading fines and possibly road tolls and
transit fees. These are described in the following paragraphs. Initially, the RMF will be also based on
donors' contribution including the IDA funds disbursed under the RMP. The latter contributions are crucial
until the revenues from the road user charges are high enough to cover the road maintenance needs.
Fuel Levy - An initial fuel levy equivalent to US$ 0.005 (Kip 40) is proposed for the first year of operation
(FY 2001/02). This fuel levy is expected to increase at an annual rate of 50 percent for the following three
years of operation. The RMF administrative mechanisms provide for the levy to be adjusted by MCTPC in
- 60 -



consultation with MoF and on the advice of the Road Maintenance Fund Advisory Board. The levy will be
raised so to cover all the maintenance needs and gradually replace donors' contributions and Government's
budgetary provisions.
As of March 2000, the average retail price for fuel in Lao is at Kip 1924 per liter for Diesel, Kip 2519-and
Kip 2218 per liter for super and regular gasoline, respectively. A levy of Kip 1 12.5 would raise the price
by about 5 percent. Because of the precipitous depreciation of the Kip from mid- 1998 and the fact that unit
taxes on fuel have been waived or maintained constant in kip terms to retain the same price at the pump,
the estimated FL would still keep the fuel price under the Thai level. Thus, leaving room for further
increase and discouraging cross-border smuggling. Moreover, the limited increase would have a minor
impact as a constraint for the capacity of the Government to raise fuel taxes as a means of increasing
general revenues. This is in line with the conditions and policies currently advocated by the IMF and
confirms the fiscal sustainability of the proposed RMF.
Regarding the financial sustainability of the RMF and given the low fuel price elasticity, the impact of the
price increase on fuel consumption should not be significant and would be abundantly compensated by the
increase of traffic and fleet size. Lao State Fuel Company (LSF) targets an 11 percent increase in total fuel
imports for the next few years, taking into consideration the expected economic recovery and rebound of
traffic and construction activity.
Equally important, the increase should not induce inflationary pressures. In the basket of goods on which
inflation computations are based, fuel has no particular relevance. Moreover, the potential inflationary
effect would be easily compensated in the medium term by the savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC)
from the improved roads. Based on empirical evidence, when the road roughness - measured by the
international roughness index (IRI) - is reduced by 1 on the IRI scale, VOC savings are at least around 3-4
percent. Precise data on IRI reduction will be available only during program's implementation. The RMP is
expected to reduce the average IRI on the NRN by at least 6 percentage points.
Heavy Vehicle Surcharge - The Revenues from motor vehicle registration charges for the country's
vehicles totaled Kip 4.4 billion ($ 0.55 million) for fiscal year 1999/00. Because registration charges have
not been adjusted to inflation for several years, the average charge is very low compared to the past and by
intemational standards. So, there is clearly scope for simplifying the present license fee and charging
structure for vehicles. For the purpose of network maintenance, GoL intends to introduce an additional
charge: the Heavy Vehicle Surcharge.
Such a charge is based on the principle that heavy vehicles contribute in a greater measure to road
consumption and deterioration. The HVS will generate revenues strictly dedicated to the RMF and will
vary according to the type and class of vehicle. These will be determined by the loading capacity in the case
of trucks and the number of seats in the case of buses. The surcharge should generate an average revenue
in kip equivalent to about US$ 27 per vehicle. Provisions for an average annual increase of 20 percent will
be included in the RMF regulations. The table below (Table 5.3) outlines the prospected HVS rates, which
have been estimated considering the actual composition of the heavy vehicle fleet in Lao PDR.
- 61 -



Table 5.3 - Prospected Heavy Vehicle Surcharge Rates
Type of Vehicle         Class            HV
Surcharge
Trucks                  Weight (tons)      (USS)
Light Truck               >2 to 4            25
Medium Truck              >4 to 7            35
Heavy Truck                   >7             55
Buses
Small Bus               >12 to 24            15
Medium Bus              >24 to 42            25
Large Bus                    >42             40
Other Charges - Other charges that will be channeled through RMF to road maintenance include penalties
(e.g. for not paying the HVS) and overloading fines. In the future, other road user charges may also be
included in the RMF. These might be tolls and international transit charges. The collection arrangements
for these will be determined. The principle of transparency and efficiency should guide the choice of the
collection method adopted. This will usually imply collection under contract on a performance basis.
Financial Plan - The estimated financial plan in US dollar terms for the first four years of operation of the
RMF is outlined in the following table (Table 5.4).
Table 5.4 - Prospected RMF Financial Plan (US$ million)
200112002 2002/2003 2003/004 200412005
RMF Revenue                    9.01     11.61    14.41    15.13
Road User Charges            1.59     2.65     4.28     6.63
Fuel Levy                 0.99      2.05     3.48     5.73
Rate (U/liter)         0.005    0.0075    0.0113    0.0169
Taxable Volume (lit. m)  197.4    273.3    308.4    339.2
Heavy Vehicle Surcharges   0.3      0.3       0.4      0.5
HVFleet (units)       10,500    10,920    11,327    11.811
Aiverage HVS (5/unit)    27        32       38       46
Others                     0.3      0.3       0.4      0.4
Donors                        0.5     8.96    10.13      8.5
IDA                       6.92      8.46     9.63      8.0
SIDA
ADB                        0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5
Others
Maintenance Needs            15.7     16.2     16.6     17.3
Routine                    2.1      3.2       3.7      4.3
Periodic                  13.4      13.8     14.1     14.2
Administration                0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2
Balance                       -6.69    *4.59    -2.19    -2.17
The financial plan is based on the following assumption:
(I) Fuel levy rate increasing 50 percent per year for the first three years.
(2) Taxable volume - equal to 70 percent of total imported volume - increasing at 10 percent per year.
(3) Heavy Vehicle fleet (buses and trucks) increasing at 4 percent a year.
(4) Average HVS increasing at 20 percent a year.
- 62 -



5. Fiscal Impact of RMP and Counterpart Funds.
Any GoL investment program has some fiscal impacts, as it diverts Govemment resources from other
activities. However, in the case of the proposed RMP this would happen only to a minor extent. First, most
of the resources employed by RMP are not coming from GoL general budget but they are road user charges
that - as in the case of most utilities - correspond to access and consumption fees. Secondly, although these
charges may affect the revenue generating capacity of the Government (by their incidence on the citizens'
budgets) and its possibility of allocating these resources to other sectors (by being eannarked to road
maintenance), their fiscal impact would be minimal, as discussed in previous sections, because Lao PDR
budget is scarcely dependent, if at all, from fuel tax revenues. Moreover, the low level of the estimated
charges leaves GoL with margins to increase general budget taxes on fuel, thus raising additional revenues
to be destined to other sectors.
As far as counterpart funds availability is concerned, this would not be an issue for the RMP, since these
funds are intended to be the road user charges flowing to the RMF. Moreover, the RMP, by directing
resources to maintenance (including other donors' supported projects), would support the realignment
between capital and current expenditure. Furthermore, it would also free up resources blocked under
counterpart funding obligations, and thus permit their use in other important sectors.
- 63 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of all works and goods under RMP-l will follow the Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999.
Procurement of all services under the project will follow the Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised
September 1997 and January 1999.
The Government has requested parallel co-financing (amounting $5.2 million) under a Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) Credit and will obtain a grant from the Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency (Sida) (provided for the execution of the Lao-Swedish Road Sector Project H). Procurement of
goods and services financed with these financing sources will follow the corresponding NDF and Sida
procurements rules.
Summary of Procurement Capacity Assessment. World Bank procurement accredited staff carried out
an assessment of the implementing agencies and units. The assessment (available in project files) was
discussed and agreed with the implementing agency MCTPC in March-April 2000. The main findings are
as follows:
o  Overall, capacity of the implementing units involved with procuremnent is "fair" and the associated
risks are in the "average" category.
3 Procurement of all consultancy services and goods financed by IDA will be undertaken by the
DOR-RAD and DOR-PMD. Both units have benefited from direct technical assistance by
experienced foreign consultants under past and ongoing IDA-financed projects. Their capacity is
good and they represent a low risk. Since similar technical assistance is planned under this project,
their performance shall remain good.
3   In accordance with GoL decentralization policy, procurement activities for works will be
undertaken by the DCTPCs which are the provincial branches of the central agency MCTPC. The
DCTPCs represent a higher risk. The DCTPCs began to handle procurement for World
Bank-funded activities under the ongoing IDA-financed Third Highway Improvement Project
(T-HIP - Cr.2943) and have limited experience and knowledge of World Bank guidelines. Initially
their capacity was very weak, but after two years of experience in handling NCB under this
project, the performance has improved. To mitigate the risk and to improve their performance, all
procurement activities carried out by the DCTPCs have been under the direct monitoring of
DOR-RAD which prior reviews all important steps in the procurement process, the same way IDA
reviews the procurement activities that are above the prior review thresholds. This had allowed
smooth implementation under the THIP, and similar arrangements are planned under this project.
*   The NCB documents used by MCTPC and the DCTPCs are acceptable to the World Bank. They
were developed under the THIP. All donors in the road sector are using the same documents. For
better understanding by the contracting industry and the local supervising staff, the documents
were translated into the Lao language.
*   National laws and regulations are consistent with World Bank procurement guidelines except for
the two following items relating to NCB: (i) The GoL regulations state that bids may be rejected
-64-



if there is no suitable bids when there is no effective competition; and (ii) re-bidding is allowed or
negotiations are undertaken when the bid exceeds the budget allocated. These two issues are
addressed in the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
(b) The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under Section I, Part
B (1) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be those set forth in the
Decree No. 95/PM dated December 5, 1995 on Government Procurement of Goods,
Works [Construction, Repairs] and Services (hereinafter Decree 95/PM) and Implementing
Rules and Regulations [Labieb] No. 1639/MOF dated December 22, 1998 on Government
Procurement of Goods, Works [Construction, Repairs] and Services (hereinafter IRRs
1639/MOF) of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, with the following clarifications
required for compliance with the Guidelines.
*  Areas of improvement includes: (i) contract management including claims and dispute resolution
records; (ii) consolidation and availability of procurement laws, regulations and directives; (iii) bid
evaluation report; and (iv) staffing knowledge and experience.
*   Mitigation measures to address the risks include: (i) easy access to IDA procurement specialists
based in Bangkok and Vientiane - when fully trained; (ii) internal and extemal training (e.g.: Asian
Institute of Management in Manila); (iv) provision of specialized consultants with excellent
procurement knowledge and experience; and (v) DOR-RAD prior review of all activities carried
out by the DCTPCs.
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    Works: about $40.95 million (Kips 327.6 billion) including contingencies
All periodic maintenance contracts on the national road network (NRN), amounting between $0.25 million
and $1.0 million for a total of $19.93 million including contingencies, will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) acceptable to IDA. NCB procedures are favored over ICB procedures
because the small value of these contracts is unlikely to attract foreign competition. However, foreign
contractors will not be excluded from participating. Between 10 to 12 contracts per year will be executed
with giving an average size of about $0.56 million. The contracts to be executed during the frst dry
maintenance season are defined under Annex 2. The works will be financed by IDA at 90 percent and GoL
at 10 percent.
All periodic maintenance contracts on the local road network (LRN), excluding
Labor-Equipment-Supported-Based contracts (see next paragraph), amounting between $70,000 and
$200,000 for a total of $5.25 million including contingencies, will be procured through NCB procedures
acceptable to the IDA. NCB procedures are favored over ICB procedures because the small value of these
contracts is unlikely to attract foreign competition. However, foreign contractors will not be excluded from
participating. About four (4) contracts per year will be executed giving an average value of $0.23 million.
The contracts to be executed during the frst dry maintenance season are defned under Annex 2. The
works will be financed by IDA at 90 percent and GoL at 10 percent.
All periodic maintenance contracts on the LRN that will require the contractor to use local labor for
specific tasks (ref.: Annex 2, Component "A.1 " on Labor-Equipment-Supported Based (LESB)),
amounting between $8,000 to $50,000 for a total of about $0.50 million including contingencies, will be
procured first through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. However, since these contracts are small and
use a concept new to the contracting industry, the NCB may fail to attract bidders. In this case,
procurement will be initiated on the basis of quotations obtained and evaluated from at least three qualified
-65 -



contractors with award to the lowest priced responsive bidder. Where only one contractor has the
necessary qualifications, direct contracting may be used up to a stated aggregate value of $250,000. The
contracts to be executed during the first dry maintenance period (MP- I) are defined under Annex 2. The
works will be financed by IDA at 90 percent and GoL at 10 percent.
The construction of the 38 district offices estimated at a total of $0.34 million including contingencies will
be procured on the basis of quotations obtained and evaluated from at least three qualified contractors with
award to the lowest priced responsive bidder. Four contracts varying from $35,000 to $90,000, one in
each selected province, will be executed. The works will be financed by IDA at 90 percent and GoL at 10
percent.
Routine maintenance works amounting to $13.33 million including contingencies will be procured using
two different methods. Based on nature of the tasks, four types of contracts based on tasks will be used: (i)
emergency works will be carry out by medium-size contractors - quotations obtained and evaluated from at
least three qualified contractors with award to the lowest priced responsive bidder or direct contract
negotiations will be used for this category of work which should require about 25 percent of the budget;
(ii) vegetation control, drainage cleaning and edge repairs will be packaged in several small and scattered
contracts - direct contract negotiations with various local communities will be undertaken - daily wage
"acceptable" to the communities will be paid (currently estimated at about 10,000 Kip/day - ref.:
Community Participation in Rural Road Maintenance September 2000 - study on project file) - this
category of work should require about 25 percent of the budget; (iii) potholes patching will be carried out
by small and medium size contractors - NCB procedures using simplified bidding documents acceptable to
IDA will be used - one contract per province will be used - this category of work should require about 25
percent of the budget; (iv) grading of gravel roads will be carried out by medium size contractors - NCB
procedures using simplified bidding documents acceptable to IDA will be used - one contract per province
will be used - this category of work should require about 25 percent of the budget. Overall at least 50
percent of the volume of routine maintenance work should be contracted out. The works will be financed at
100 percent by GoL.
The construction of the seven (7) permanent axle load control stations and the 17 layby sites will be
undertaken under 3 contracts of equal value for a total of $1.6 million including contingencies.
Considering the small value of these contracts, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be
used. Foreign contractors will not be excluded from participating. The works will be financed by NDF at
90 percent and GOL at 10 percent.
2.    Goods: about $1.33 million (Kips 10.64 billion), including contingencies.
All vehicles (motorcycles and pick-up 4WD), totaling about $0.70 million, will be procured through the
United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office (IAPSO). All vehicles will be financed by IDA at 100
percent ($0.40 million) except for those for the Heavy Transport Management Program financed by NDF
also at 100 percent ($0.30 million).
National Shopping procedures in accordance with Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines would be used to
procure other goods (computers, printers, faxes, photocopier, office supply goods), totaling about $0.1
million. For efficiency gain and economical objective, a maximum of 2 packages will be prepared. These
goods will be financed by IDA at 90 percent ($0.07 million) except for goods for the Heavy Transport
Management Program that will be financed by NDF at 100 percent ($0.03 million).
- 66 -



International Shopping procedures in accordance with Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines would be used
to procure road conditions survey equipment totaling about $0.04 million. The equipment will be financed
by IDA at 100 percent.
Permanent and mobile weight scales totaling about $0.49 million will be financed by NDF and purchased
in accordance with NDF procurement rules.
3.     Services and Training: about $4.73 million (Kips 37.8 billion) including contingencies.
Because of their routine nature, non-complexity and small size, consulting services for road conditions
survey (amounting about $0.05 million including contingencies) that are financed by IDA would be
procured using the Least-Cost Selection Method.
All other consulting assignments financed by IDA under the project will be based on Selection of Individual
Consultants based on consultant qualifications (amounting to $0.39 rnillion including contingencies). This
method is favored because the contracts are small, teams of personnel are not required and outside
professional support is not required. These assignments include: (i) supervision of periodic maintenance
contracts by local engineers that will be recruited locally after request for applications advertised in
newspaper of national circulation, examinations of CVs and interviews ($0.17 million); (ii) Road
Maintenance Fund Secretariat staff including a Secretary, an Audit-Review Manager and a Finance
Manager - staff be recruited locally after request for applications advertised in newspaper of national
circulation, examinations of CVs and interviews ($0.19 million); (iii) specialized consultants for IRAP
initiative in Champassack -- staff be recruited locally after request for applications advertised in newspaper
of national circulation, examinations of CVs and interviews ($0.03 million).
Training, workshop and study tours ($0.27 million) will be financed by IDA at 100 percent and procured
according to normal business principles. Each activity including cost estimate will be submitted to IDA for
prior review.
Other services totaling $4.02 million that would be financed by Sida and NDF will follow the
corresponding Sida and NDF procurement requirements.
4.     Operating Costs: about $0.82 million (Kips 6.56 billion)
Incremental operating costs including contingencies related to supervision, vehicle operation, office
supplies and project-related travel expenses, excluding Government officials' salaries would be financed by
IDA on a declining basis; 60 percent during MP-1, 50 percent during MP-2 and 40 percent during MP-3
and procured according to normal business principles.
Operating cost for financial auditing services (amounting about $0.02 million including contingencies) will
be financed by IDA at 100 percent. Because of their routine nature, non-complexity and small size, these
services will be procured using the Least-Cost Selection Method.
Prior review thresholds (table B)
1.     Works. Except for the LESB periodic maintenance contracts, all civil works contracts procured
under NCB procedures estimated to cost US$600,000 or more would be subject to IDA's prior review.
This would cover about 50 percent of the combined value of works. Because of their innovative nature, all
LESB periodic maintenance contract procured using the small works procedures (quotations - lump sum)
- 67 -



will be subject to prior review. All four contracts for district office construction procured using the small
works procedures (quotations - lump sum)will be subject to prior review. Periodic maintenance works on
the local road network estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, that may with the Association's prior agreement be procured
directly in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, will not be subject to prior
review.
2.     Goods. Vehicles procured through IAPSO will not be subject to prior review. Contracts for other
goods (computers, printers, faxes, photocopier, office supply goods) estimated to cost $50,000 or more that
will be procured through National Shopping procedures will be subject to IDA prior review. Road
condition survey equipment procured through International Shopping is subject to prior review.
3.     Services. Procurement activities related to the selection of individual consultants for contract
estimated at or over $50,000 will be subject to IDA prior review. Because the activities are not yet defined,
training activities, workshop and study tours will be subject to IDA prior review. NDF will request IDA's
review and commnents on technical aspects of procurement of consultants services financed by NDF.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00           25.66           0.34           14.92         40.92
__________________________ ^(0.00)                 (23.10)        (0.31)         (0.00)         (23.41)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00           0.51           0.82           1.33
(0.00)         (0.00)          0.46)         (0.00)         (0.46)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           0.71           4.02           4.73
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.71)         (0.00)         (0.71)
4. Operating Cost                    0.00            0.00           0.82           0.00           0.82
a. Auditing services                (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.42)         (0.00)         (0.42)
b. Other
Total                             0.00           25.66           2.38           19.76         47.80
l _______________________ _ l       (0.00)         (23.10)         (1.90)         (0.00)        (25.00)
t' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 68 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.05      0.00      0.00      1.94      1.99
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.66      0.00      2.08      2.74
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.66)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.66)
Total   0.00     0.00      0.00      0.05      0.66      0.00      4.02      4.73
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.66)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.71)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 69 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works
a. Periodic maintenance          600                     NCB                      13.00
b. LESB periodic                  0                   Small Works                  0.50
maintenance contract
c. District offices
0                  Small Works                  0.34
d. Periodic maintenance
on Local Roads                   N.A.                    Direct                    0.00
2. Goods
a. Vehicles                      NA                     IAPSO                      0.00
b. Road Cond. Survey              0                        IS                      0.04
Equ
c. Other                          50                      NS                       0.07
3. Services
a. Firms                         100                      LCS                      0.00
b. Individuals                    50                      IC                       0.36
c. Training                       0                      Other                     0.20
4. Operating Cost
a. Financial Audit               100                      LCS                      0.00
b. Other                         NA                      Other                     0.00
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$14.51 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Given the lack of experience of the DCTPCs described in the procurement assessment, semi annual
procurement supervision mission for the first year of the project is estimated appropriate. If implementation
of procurement activities is satisfactory, annual supervision would take place for the second and third year
of the project.
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 70 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the loan proceeds would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
6000ft"e ,aC.g ry             n    iutI          i      Pinn I
Civil Works (excluding routine            21.60                        90
maintenance)
Goods                                     0.40                        100/90
Services                                  0.65                        100
Operating cost                            0.35                   60-50-40 and 100*
Unallocated                               2.00
Total Project Costs                       25.00
Total                                     25.00
* Project operating cost for financial audit will be financed at 100% and other project operating cost will be
financed on a yearly declining basis of 60, 50 and 40%.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$600,000, contracts for goods estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000, individual consultant's contracts to cost less than the estirated
equivalent of US$50,000, and training expenditures, withdrawal applications will be supported by
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). For civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$600,000 or more, goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, and
individual consultant's contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, withdrawal
applications would be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
Special account:
To facilitate credit disbursement, MCTPC Department of Roads -Disbursement Division (DOR- DD) and
the Secretariat of the Road Maintenance Fund will open and maintain two separate dollar special deposit
accounts in the Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao (BCEL), on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA including appropriate protection against set off, seizure and attachments. MOF agreed that DOR-DD
and the RMF Secretariat manage their respective special accounts provided basic information are being
forwarded to MOF on a regularly. The MCTPC-DOR-DD Special Account (SA), will cover the IDA share
of eligible expenditures for all activities other than the financing of periodic maintenance costs of NRN
which would be channeled through the SA managed by the RMF Secretariat. The MCTPC-DOR-DD
Special Account (SA) will have an authorized allocation amounting to US$0.5 million with an initial
withdrawal of US$0.25 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the SA. When the
amounts withdrawn from the Credit total SDR 0.8 million for related activities the initial withdrawal will
be increased to the authorized allocation. The RMF Special Account (SA) will have an authorized
allocation amounting to US$2.0 million with an initial withdrawal of US$0.6 million to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited in the SA. When the amounts withdrawn from the Credit total SDR 3
million for related activities the initial withdrawal will be increased to the authorized allocation.
Applications to replenish the SAs, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly
(preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 20 percent of the
- 71 -



initial deposit, whichever comes first, by MCTPC-DOR-DD and the RMF Secretariat respectively for each
SA. The SAs shall be audited annually by the auditors acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements:
A project financial management assessment was carried at the Ministry of Construction, Transport, Post
and Communication (MCTPC) which will implement the project. In addition, an assessment of a FMS
system developed by Sida under the Lao Swedish Road Sector Project was carried out. As this system
meets IDA's requirements, IDA and MCTPC agreed to install the system for all on-going and future IDA
funded projects managed by MCTPC. Sida agreed to provide free technical assistance to install the system
and carry out staff training within the MCTPC-DOR-DD and the provincial administrations. Installation
and training have already been completed successfully for the following ongoing IDA-financed projects: the
Third Highway Improvement Project (Cr. 2943); the Provincial Infrastructure Project (Cr. 3131); and the
Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project (Cr. 2579). A detailed description of the system is given in
the FM assessment Report which is available in project files.
Fund Flow of IDA funded RMP:
Under RMP-I IDA will finance the following category of activities:
1. Works including periodic maintenance on the LRN and LRN and building offices in various
provincial districts;
2. Specialized services and training;
3. Vehicles and office equipment;
4. Project financial audit;
5. Operating costs on a declining basis.
For item (1) above IDA will finance 90 percent of the costs with GOL financing the balance. Items (2), (3)
and (4) will be financed 100 percent by IDA or NDF as stated in the project cost table. IDA will finance
60 percent of item 5) in the first year, 50 percent in the second year and 40 percent in the third year with
GOL funds financing the balance.
Funding of the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF). RMF will be financed from funds generated by
various road user charges and allocation from consolidated budget of GOL provided by MOF. As the
RMF will not be able to generate enough revenues to cover all maintenance financing needs, some donors
such as IDA, Sida and ADB agreed to channel their funds for some maintenance activities through the
RMF in its frst years of operations. These donor funds would be held in separate donor special accounts
managed by the RMF Secretariat. For contracts financed through the RMF, the Road Maintenance Fund
Advisory Board (RMAB) will have the final authority on allocating funds, reviewing and approving annual
work programs and monitoring implementation.
Funding of the Provincial Government Budgets for Road Maintenance. Provincial government budgets
for road maintenance will be financed from funds generated in provinces, the transfer of funds of RMF if
any, and funds allocated by MOF/SPC though the consolidated budget. Each province would also generate
revenues in the forrn of tolls and heavy vehicle surcharges collected in provinces. These funds would be
deposited in RMF collection sub-accounts (a separate Bank account maintained in each province and
managed by the respective DCTPC) and transferred to the RMF regularly. These funds would be added to
the road user charges held at the RMF and would be included in the revenue transferred back from RMF to
each province. RMF's allocation of revenue to each province would be based on identification and
prioritizing activities of each province by the Road Maintenance Advisory Board (RMAB). The RMF
decree specifies that 10 percent of its revenues will be transferred to all provinces in this manner for the
maintenance of local roads. The percentage will increase only when all the maintenance fnancing needs of
-72-



the national roads will be covered by the RMF revenues. For contracts financed through provincial
government budgets the provincial governor's office will have final authority on allocating funds, reviewing
and accepting annual work programs and issuing payment
IDA funds would be channeled through two Special Accounts to be maintained respectively by the MCTPC
Department of Roads -Disbursement Division (DD-DOR) and the Secretariat of the Road maintenance
Fund that will be supported under RMP 1. The SA managed by RMF Secretariat will only be used to
channel funds to finance periodic maintenance costs of NRN. The SA managed by DD-DOR will be used
to financial other activities. GOL counterpart funding will be channeled through the RMF for periodic
maintenance on the NRN and through the finance departments of MCTPC or of the participating provinces
depending which organization implement the activities. A detailed description of procedures to be followed
in channeling donor and GOL funds is given in the Project Implementation Manual. The Chart Included at
the end of this section shows the flow of funds for RMP- I activities.
Organization and Staffing:
The project management of all foreign funded projects in the road sector of MCTPC is now being
undertaken by a newly created Project Management Division of the Department of Roads (DOR-PMD) of
MCTPC. DOR-PMD will be supported by the Disbursement Division of the same Department (DOR-DD)
which is responsible for all financial management activities of foreign funded projects. With the integration
of donor project activities within this division, MCTPC will standardize systems applications, chart of
accounts and accounting procedures and therefore improve capacity building of staff skills and flexibility in
staff utilization. DOR-DD will be responsible for maintaining consolidated project accounts, preparation
of withdrawal applications on the DOR-DD managed SA and their submission to IDA and preparation of
quarterly project management reports (PMR). MCTPC has already appointed to DOR-DD a Project
Accountant with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA. Additional supporting accounting staff
to ensure adequate segregation of duties will also be appointed.
Establishment of financial management capacity within the Secretariat of the RMF will also be pursued
under RMP-1. RMF will be responsible for managing financial resources collected by road user charges,
IDA funds for periodic maintenance works on the NRN and other donor funds. Therefore financial
management staff with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA will be appointed to RMF. At
minimum, a Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and one project accountant for each donor that channel funds
through the RMF will be appointed. Appointment of a Chief Financial Officer to the RMF Secretariat will
be a condition of effectiveness. The organization and management of RMF, the financial and auditing
arrangements and the necessary steps to initiate its establishment are described in the report "Establishment
of a Road Maintenance Fund" which is available on project files.
Accounting and Reporting:
DOR-DD of MCTPC will be responsible for maintaining accounting records for disbursements made by
DOR-DD. In addition, DOR-DD will incorporate accounting information received from RM!F and
DCTPCs to prepare consolidated financial statements. DOR-DD shall be responsible for preparing
quarterly PMRs based on the consolidated financial statements, physical progress reports and procurement
infornation received from RMF and DCTPCs. Detailed guidelines on procurement, payment
authorization, cash management, month and year-end closing and financial reporting are given in
accounting procedures manual developed as part of the Sida FMS system. A computerized accounting
system, with a uniform chart of accounts, will facilitate accounting information flow from provinces, RW
and MCTPC and consolidations of financial statements.
- 73 -



The Secretariat of the RMF will be responsible for coordinating the preparation of annual work programs
and budgets for activities financed by the RMF. The annual budget will be submitted by the DOR Road
Administration Division (RAD) and Planning and technical Division (PTD) to the RMF for review and
approval.
Project Management Reports (PMR):
The PMRs to be submitted to IDA have been agreed and will include the following:
*  Report 1-A Project Uses and Sources of Funds.
*   Report 1-B Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*   Report 2-A Output Monitoring Report (Contract management).
*   Report 3-A Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works).
*  Report 3- B Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultant's services).
*  Report 3-C Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
*   Report 3-D Contract Expenditure Reports (Consultant's services)
The formats of the above reports have been agreed at appraisal. DOR-PMD will obtain the PMRs from
DOR-DD and submit them to IDA quarterly starting the first quarter following project first disbursement.
Audit:
The Borrower will appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The audit will be conducted in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
The auditor will be responsible for the annual audit of project financial statements including funds
channeled through the Road Maintenance Fund, and provide an opinion on the (i) project accounts, (ii)
transactions on special accounts (iii) statement of expenditures and the eligibility of the expenses
withdrawn on the basis of SOEs. The audited financial statements together with the audit report shall be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the project fiscal year.
- 74 -



II    -~~~~~~   --
bw 1~~~~~~~~~ 
z                               *1            -~~~  --        --    
U              0                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 
... ... ... .. ... ... ... ..
2                I   ~~~~~~~~~~~............. .....  ............. .. ..



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                         06/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                     10/01/2000                  10/09/2000
Negotiations                                   01/15/2001                   01/18/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  05/01/2001
Prepared by:
Denis Robitaille, Senior Highway Engineer, Task Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Policy and Human Resource Development Trust Fund (PHRD TF-025724) - $300,000 ($250,000 expected
to be used)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nan1e                     _ _  ; 000 00000 i ESpeciality
Francesco Addis, EASTR           Transportation Economist
Teck Ghee Lim, EASES              Senior Social Specialist
Lanfranco Blanchetti-Revelli, EASES   Social Impact Specialist
Glenn S. Morgan, EASES           Senior Environmental Specialist
Zhi Liu, SARIN                    Senior Transport Economist
Karin Nordlander, LEGOP           Senior Counsel
Wijaya Wickrema, EAPCO            Senior Accounting and Auditing Officer
Omowunmi Ladipo, LOAAS           Senior Financial Management Specialist
Preethi Wijeratne, EAPCO         Financial Management Officer
Chinnakorn Chantra, EACTF        Procurement Officer
Christopher De Serio, EASTR      Program Assistant
George Tharakan, MNSID            Sector Manager, Transport - Peer Reviewer
Dieter Schelling, TWUTD           Senior Rural Transport Specialist - Peer Reviewer
- 76-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP), Version 3.3, September 14, 2000
B.. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Mission Aide Memoire, July 2, 1999
Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, December 21, 1999
Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, April 14, 2000
Procurement Assessment, April 2000
Financial Management Assessment, April 2000
Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines, IDA/Lanfranco Blanchetti-Revelli July 2000
C. Other
Traffic Survey Lao PDR, MCTPC/JICA/CDRI, April 2000
10-Year Periodic Maintenance Plan, MCTPC/PTD, February 14, 2000
Draft 5-Year Road Sector Investment Program, MCTPC/PTD, January 27, 2000
Strategic Directions for the Development of the Road Sector, Preparatory Roundtable Meeting, June 2000
Establishment of a Logical Framework for Road Maintenance Program, MCTPC/Hans Hedemalm,
December 1999
Establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund, MCTPC/Richard Robinson, September 1999
Draft Road Maintenance Fund Operational Procedures, MCTPC/Richard Robinson, July 2000
Draft Heavy Transport Management Program, MCTPC/Robert Valkovic & David Roberts, August 2000
Framework for Proposed Road Management Systems in Laos, IDAIHTC, April 3, 2000
Draft Study on Community Participation in Rural Road Maintenance, IDA/Teck Ghee Lim, August 2000
*Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expecte(
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA        SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P004210       1997 HIGHWAY IMPROV. III                                0.00      48.00                            0.00     24.84      20.06       0.00
P004201       1994 HWY IMPROVE II                                     0.00      30.00                            0.00      2.35       1.94       0.00
P059305       1999 LA DIST UPLAND DEV                                 0.00       2.00                            0.00      1.82       1.53       0.00
P004203       1993 LA-EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                           0.00      19.00                            0.00      3.72       3.97       0.00
P004200       1995 LA-HEALTH SYS. REF. & M                            0.00      19.20                            0.00     10.47      10.16       0.00
P004208       1998 LANDTITLING                                        0.00      20.70                            0.00     14.24       5.07       1.06
P004207       1994 LUANG NAMTHA PROV DE                               0.00       9.67                            0.00      1.46       0.15      0.20
P042237        1999 PROVINN. NFRAST.                                  0.00      27.B0                            0.00     23.77       1.90       0.00
P044973       1998 SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE                               0.00      34.70                            0.00     30.02       6.08       0.30
Total:       0.00      211.07                           0.00      112.69     50.86       1.06
- 78 -



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                SEF BAFCO                      0.77    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.77    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                SEF Endeavor                   0.15     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.15    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                SEF Settha                      1.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         1.92     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.92    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comnitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               SEF Settha Restr                 180.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       180.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 79 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Lao    Asia &       Low-
POR    Pacific  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         S.t      1,837     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita {Atlas method, US$)                      280      1,000      410
GNP (Atlas method, USS bilions)                         1.4      1,833      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          2.6       1.2        1.9     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                           .-       1.3       2.3     Per
per           <\  O             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty lihe)   46
Urban population (`% of total population)               23         34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         54        69        60
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 five birthsx               96         35        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               40        22        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (1% of population)       39        84        64
Illiteracy (% of population age f5+)                    53         15        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoot-age population)   112       119        96                   Lao POR
Male                                                 123        121     1 102                  Low-income group
Female                                               101        121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENODS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                               .     0 0.77      1.3       1.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..       ..      24.9 
Exports of goods and services/GOP               ..    12.1        3.7                                Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      .         .      23.7
Gross national savings/GDP                               ..      26.5
Current accournt balance/GDP                          -18.9      -8.7Doetciesmn
Interest paymentstGDP                                   0.4       0.6                 a                           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                        206.2      193.2eStic >                        <
Total debt servit elexporft                            20.4        6.5        .
Present value of debt/GOP                  ..                    88.9
Present value of debt/exports                   .. ..    236.8
Indebtedness
`1979-89  1981-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annuatgrowth)
GDP                                  2.9       6.3      4.0       4.0                             Lao PDR
GNP pet capita  X                              3.6      1.4:       IS                             Low-income erouo
Exports of goods and services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           10
Agriculture                                     ..    60.6        52.6
Industry                                        ..    13.4       22.0         ..
Manufacturing                                 ..      9.3       16.7
Services                                        ..    26.0       25.4         ..
Private consumption                             ..       ..      71.1                       94   95   96   97   ea   a9
General government consumption                  ..       ..       6.1         ..GDI                          4,  GDP
Imports of goods and services                    .     32.0       4.9
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.7      4.6        3.7
Industry                                       3.5     12.2       8.6
Manufacturing                                6.8     13.2        9.7
Services                                       3.1      6.9       1.0
Private consumption                              .        .
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services
Gross national product                                  6.3        4.0       4.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
- 80 -



Lao PDR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices                                                                     l150
(% change)                                                                                                                  v
Consumer prices                                   ,                91.0              100
Implicit GDP deflator                                   551        84 0     125A4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                          8.5       15.0                       94    95    9      97   98   99
Current budget balance                                              7.8                         -GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                337          ,     75
Wood products                                                     115
Agriculture                                                         8               r**
Manufactures                                                      80                            *
Total imports (cif)                                                553
Food                                                                                250
Imorupel ind exeg                                                 12940)                       SsOtSlSOt
Capital goods                                                     1645              20  m      M    9     ; 9
Export price Index (1995=100)
Imnport price index (1995=100)                   ..        .          .        .                   Exports   *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP ratio%)
Exports of goods and services                             86       467
Imports of goods and services                           227        612
Resource balance                                        -141      -145                -sl
Net income                                                -2  -36                    l 'IIfl
Net current transfers                                               72
Current account balance                                 -135      -110                15
Financing items (net)                                    112        92
Changes in net reserves                           1       23        18         .      20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           ..        1       117
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)                5.7   583.0    3,298.3   7,102.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           308    1,473       2,437
IBRD                                           0        0          0
IDA                                            0       92        395         .                                B:395
Totaldebtservice                                 13       18        31
IBRD                                           0        0          0                                               C6
IDA                                            0         1         4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               29       40        118                  E. 1,420
Official creditors                            43      172         78         .                                       559
Private creditors                              0        0          0
Foreign direct investment                      0        4         46
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   10       43         63                A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0       35         25                B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0          1                C - IMF                       G - Shdrt-termn
Net flows                                      0       35         24
Interest payments                              0        1          3
Net transfers                                  0       35         21
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                           8/17/00
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 11
Safeguards Policies, Social and Environmental Issues Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A. SOCIAL ASPECTS
Project Impacts. The project is not expected to cause land acquisition nor resettlement. However, minor
infrastructure or the use of some areas as deposits may result in unexpected low-level impacts/damages to
parcels of land or buildings. Road maintenance activities may also require the temporary occupation of
plots or may cause crops or income losses to settlers along the roads.
Policy Framework. In order to ensure that eventual impacts are compensated in compliance with World
Bank policy, Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines specifying eligibility and entitlement principles
have been prepared. The Guidelines fully comply with OD 4.30 and reflect Lao laws and regulations. The
Guidelines text will be translated in Lao and distributed as an Operations Manual to the local agencies
which will be responsible for the maintenance of the road.
Implementation. The compensation of eventual impacts will be managed and carried out by the Districts in
consultation with the local communities. DOT will have a supervision role and will ensure that the policy
laid out in the resettlement and Compensation Guidelines is implemented.
Public Information and Consultation. The implementing agency will ensure that all districts and villages
are properly and timely informed of the road maintenance activities to be carried out. The implementing
agency will also ensure that the provisions of the Guidelines are effectively disclosed to the population
living along the roads targeted by the project by means of a public information campaign. All communities
along the roads targeted by the project will be consulted by means of ad hoc meetings regarding their
priorities and needs in matters of road maintenance.
Complaints and Grievances. Complaints and Grievances at the local administration level will be dealt by
an independent committee including authoritative members of the local communities. In case complaint and
grievances issues are appealed they will be dealt in first instance by the commune administration and in
second instance at the primary court level. Project affected persons will be exempted from all
administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to the grievance redress procedures.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Road maintenance operations may potentially affect the environment in a number of ways. For example,
environmental concerns can stem initially from poor road design and planning, mobilization of construction
crews, construction camp maintenance, storage and handling of wastes and hazardous materials, location of
borrow pits and quarry sites, associated earthworks, and drainage design. Poorly executed maintenance
activities may create localized soil erosion problems affecting streams or other water bodies, lack of clear
plan for environmental management will create opportunities for inappropriate disposal of solid waste
materials and could lead to lack of controls of noise and dust which can create a nuisance for individuals
and communities. Better maintained roads could lead to increased accessibility in remote areas thus
increasing the potential for uncontrolled resource extraction and land conversion along the road sides.
- 82 -



Concern over such issues are heightened in areas where roads pass through protected areas or other sites of
a sensitive ecological nature such as wetlands, streams or forest areas.
The alternative to road maintenance program is basically a no maintenance approach. This scenario also
has adverse environmental implications. Lack of maintenance creates generates unstable road bed
conditions leading to localized erosion and drainage problems. In areas of high rainfall and geologic
instability these risks can be substantial. Road maintenance programs also provide an opportunity to
address some basic design problems which can create drainage and erosion problems.
Environmental Category and Justification. The project itself has few environmental or social risks
associated with it. Environmental issues associated with the project will be temporary and localized in
nature resulting from maintenance works. The types of effects that are commonly linked to maintenance
projects are well understood and documented in numerous places. Mitigation measures are known and if
applied in practice can eliminate the environmental risks. In general, road maintenance programs have no
influence over road alignment and basic design decisions. These fundamental decisions are beyond the
influence of a maintenance program. Because the maintenance program will only be on existing roads the
incremental induced effects are thought to be minimal. No new road construction will be undertaken under
this project. Based on these factors, this project has been assigned an environmental category B. The
enviromnental category is consistent with current Bank practice and is fully consistent with Annex B of GP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment. .
Safeguards arrangements under the project. No separate environmental assessment has been prepared
for this project both because of the nature of impacts as well as the programmatic nature of the loan.
Maintenance activities to be funded under the project will be screened by the DOR environmental
management unit to ensure that maintenance measures will have no adverse effect on critical habitats such
as protected areas or other sensitive sites which fall outside of protected status. To ensure appropriate
safeguard measures are put in place the Ministry of Communication, Transportation, Post and
Construction MCTPC has developed and will apply the "Environmental Guidelines (April 1999)" These
guidelines were developed in April 1999 and cover various aspects of road maintenance including: general
statement of policy; purpose of the guidelines; procedures for screening, examples of safeguards measures
to be included in technical Specifications. The guidelines provide specific examples of how procedures
were applied in specific cases. The guidelines provide specific guidance on possible effects and mitigation
measures in planning and design, mobilization, and construction (see Table 1 Attached for examples from
Published Guidelines). Section 4 of the guidelines provided safeguards measures to be included in technical
specifications for contractors. These guidelines were reviewed by EASES staff and found to be
appropriate and acceptable.
The guidelines to be adopted will form the basis of contractual obligations to be carried out by road
maintenance crews. Contracts for maintenance will include specific clauses for environmental protection
based on the guidelines. Supervision and monitoring of environmental performance will be carried out in
the field by the project supervising engineer. Periodic audits will also be carried out during regular Bank
supervision missions. The DOR will also prepare periodic (semi-annual) reports on the adherence to
environmental measures under the project.
- 83 -



Institutional Capacity for Environmental Safeguards. The Government of Laos recognizes the
importance of environmental protection and has made basic commitments to addressing enviromental
concerns. However, at present, Laos has a very limited capacity to implement enviromnental safeguards.
Within the implementing agency an Environmental Management Unit (EMU) has been created to assist
with project screening and to evaluate environmental risks of proposed projects. While some training has
taken place this team has limited experience and has not had much opportunity to apply its skills to date.
At the national level, environmental oversight rests with the STENO (Science Technology and Environment
Organization). STENO has a mandate to develop the regulatory framework for environmental assessment.
It is the lead agency responsible for national environmental policy, planning, regulation and for
coordinating environmental matters with the line ministries. Through technical assistance program with
ADB STENO has drafted guidelines including sector specific guidelines for roads. STENO and MCTPC
have prepared a draft "Regulation on Implementing Environmental Assessment of Road Projects".
This draft regulation addresses EA procedures to be followed for roads projects, institutional
responsibilities, requirements for public consultation, formulation and implementation of management
plans. While this is still in draft phase it does represent a government recognition of these issues and an
attempt to move forward to add clarity with respect to overall procedures. No additional capacity building
initiatives are included under this project as it is understood that financial support from the ADB will
address environmental training and capacity building under a separate project. The project expects a close
collaboration between the DOR environment team and the STENO.
Table 11.1: Environmental effects and proposed mitigation measures for road projects in Laos
Activity                  Potential Effects             Mitigation Measures
1. Planning, Design, and Land
Acquisition
1.1 Setting Design Standards    If standards are too high, excessive Set standards appropriate for class of
earthworks can cause other effects. road, traffic, and terrain
(See activities under "3.
Construction".)
1.2 Design - General         Land requirements affect local  Minimize land acquisition and
people.                      resettlement in selecting alignment.
Existing buildings, possibly  Attempt to negotiate a fair design or
illegally constructed within the road compensation solution which does not
reserve, could be affected.   cause undue hardship but also does not
encourage others to build within the
road reserve.
Roads and embankmnents can cause Include appropriate number of bridges
severance and social disruption.   and culverts in the design to minimize
inconvenience to local people.
Road widening can affect existing  Widen one side only to retain trees on
lines of roadside trees.      at least on side.
- 84 -



Roads can have impacts on wildlife, Avoid such areas as much as possible in
virgin forest areas, cultural relics,  the design.
etc.
Roads can cause noise and air   Integrate into the design, where
pollution,                       appropriate, sound barriers, forest belts,
etc.
Roads can cause an increase in   Ensure a safe design including speed
traffic speeds and accidents     restriction and warning signs,
affecting road users, local people,  footpaths, safe crossings, and fences to
and animals.                     control livestock as necessary and
where possible. Discuss possible
designs with local people.
Traffic on roads can increase    Plant or preserve a vegetative buffer
pollution of adjacent surface water  zone between the road and a surface
bodies.                          water body.
Traffic can cause dust pollution on  Incorporate sections of bituminous
gravel roads especially through  surfacing through settlements for gravel
settlements.                     road designs.
1.3 Design - Drainage           Can alter hydrological regimes and Ensure culverts and road drainage are
affect flooding and existing     adequately designed to minimize
irrigation systems.              effects.
Can cause negative impacts of    Ensure design improves the drainage
concentrating water and increasing  system by rectifying any existing
scour and soil erosion.          problems, such as scour of adjacent
lands, which should be checked for
during the monsoons. Include tree/turf
planting in design where possible.
Can affect washing/drinking water  Incorporate washing/drinking water
supplied. Local people sometimes  needs into the design. Discuss with
interfere with drainage systems  local people.
because of this, which can result in
damage to the road.
Drainage from service areas can    Install adequate wastewater treatment
cause water pollution.           facilities at service areas.
1.4 Acquiring Land              Can cause dissatisfaction and    Discuss with those affected at all stages.
opposition from landowners and    Pay reasonable compensation for
users.                           impact on properties and/or disruption
of incomes.
1.5 Relocating People           Can cause dissatisfaction and    Discuss with those affected at all stages
opposition from people relocated.   and provide suitable new resettlement
locations with adequate infrastructure.
In consultation with affected people
design compensation and resettlement
policies (both land and non-land based)
aimed at restoring incomes to levels
existing before resettlement.
- 85 -



2.  Construction Preparation
2.1 Mobilizing Equipment      Air and noise pollution for any  Control contractors' vehicle speeds and
nearby settlements.            noise.
2.2 Mobilizing Workforce      The introduction of an outside  Insist that contractor employ local
workforce can have a negative  people where possible.
impact on the health and social
well-being of local people.
2.3 Establishment and Operation Possible pollution caused by  Insist that the contractor install and
of Labor Camp             domestic sewage and solid waste.   maintain a septic tank system, and a
system for disposing of solid waste.
Possible excessive or uncontrolled  Insist the contractor supply altemative
use of fuelwood in labor camp.    fuel for cooking and heating in the
labor camp.
Possible development of labor camp Insist contractor remove the labor camp
into a permanent settlement.   at the completion of the contract.
Possible poaching of local game by  Prohibit poaching and make contractor
outside.                       responsible for his workers.
2.4 Establishment and Operation Air and noise pollution for any  Locate base camp and workshop away
of Base Camp and Workshop nearby settlements.            from any residential settlements.
Possible ground and water      Collect and recycle lubricants. Avoid
contamination by oil, grease, and   spills and have a ditch around the area
fuel in yards.                 with a settling pond/oil trap at the
outlet.
2.5 Setting Up and Operation of  Air and noise pollution for any  Locate asphalt plant away from any
an Asphalt Plant or Asphalt  nearby settlements.         residential settlements.
Preparation Area
Possible ground and water      Avoid spills but surround areas with a
contamination by bitumen or    ditch with a settling pond/oil trap at the
solvents.                      outlet.
Cutting down trees to use as   Insist that the contractor not use
fuelwood for heating bitumen and  fuelwood for heating during the
stones.                        processing of any materials.
2.6 Setting Up and Operating a  Noise, vibration, and dust from  Locate plant away from any residential
Quarry or Borrow Pit      blasting could affect any nearby    or other environmentally sensitive areas
settlements or other sensitive areas. such as hospitals, intensive livestock
production areas, or wildlife breeding
areas. Also avoid farmlands or forests
as much as possible. Restrict work to
daylight hours and limit the size and
frequency of any blasting.
- 86 -



Accidents from blasting.        Insist that the contractor can ensure the
area is clear of local people before
blasting commences. Use a waming
siren and inform the local population of
what it means.
2.7 Setting Up and Operating a   An abandoned quarry or borrow pit Insist the contractor leave the area in a
Quarry Winning Rock from   can be a dangerous area for children safe, tidy, and drained condition.
River or Stream Beds        and can result in stagnant water
breeding mosquitoes.
Removing material and disturbing  Insist the contractor limit the depth of
the river flow can cause sediment   material removed at any one location
for downstream users and can also  and only works locations where there is
undermine or damage the river    little fine material to be carried
banks.                           downstream.
Changing the river bed could affect Discuss proposed location with local
local fishing areas.             people/fishermen and insist contractor
obtain their approval.
2.8 Setting Up and Operating a   Air and noise pollution for any  Locate plant away from any residential
Rock Crushing Plant        nearby settlements and dust on local areas or other environmentally sensitive
crops and vegetation and in      areas and insist contractor has adequate
watercourses.                    dust control devices fitted to the plant.
3.  Construction
3.1 Earthworks Involved in      Erosion from earthworks can      Limit earthworks to the dry season as
Widening in Flat Terrain    increase sedimentation in drains,   much as possible. Protect exposed
waterways, and irrigation ditches.  earthworks with mulch, fabric, and
plant cover.
3.2 Earthworks Involved in      Can cause slips or landslides, and   Limit earthworks to the dry season as
Widening in Steep Terrain   erosion from earthworks can      much as possible. Construct walls and
Or Through Unstable Land   increase sedimentation in drains,   protect exposed earthworks with mulch,
waterways, and irrigation ditches.  fabric, and plant cover.
Spoil disposal by simple side    Insist contract dispose of spoil to
tipping is unsightly and can     designated stable tipping areas.
concentrate runoff and cause
erosion.
3.3 Earthworks Involved in      Existing property frontages,     Reduce effects of widening through
Widening Through            footpaths, tracks, or public utility   settlements by covering over drains to
Settlements                lines could be disturbed.         enable the area to be used by
pedestrians and/or for parking.
Possible noise and vibration,    Restrict work to daylight hours and
especially if earthworks involve    limit the size and frequency of any
blasting, could affect nearby    blasting near settlements (especially
sefflements or other sensitive areas. hospitals) and near intensive livestock
production and wildlife breeding areas.
- 87 -



Historical remains or cultural items Insist contractor ensure all such finds
could be uncovered.              are reported and discussed with
representatives of the local people.
3.4 Drainage Improvement        Spoil disposal from drain        Insist contractor dispose of spoil to
Works                      excavation by simple side tipping is designated stable tipping areas.
unsightly and can concentrate
runoff and cause erosion.
Works can have temporary affects  Ensure contractor take into account
on irrigation or washing/drinking   local water uses. Temporary drainage
water supplies.                  may have to be constructed.
3.5 Pavement Base Construction  Dust, noise, and vibrations.     Include an allowance for watering in
or Gravel Surfacing                                          the contract and control contractors'
equipment noise and vibrations,
especially close to settlements.
Effect on traffic and pedestrian  Provide an allowance for, and insist the
safety.                          contractor use safe traffic control as
necessary and cause the minimum
possible disruption to all traffic.
3.6 Bituminous Surfacing        Possible pollution of waterways or  Strict control to avoid spills, or clean
ground water by bituminous       up immediately after, and prohibit work
products or solvents.            in rain.
3.7 Transport of Project        Air and noise pollution for any  Control contractors' vehicle speeds,
Materials                  nearby settlements and damage to  noise, and weight of loads, and control
existing roads.                  dust and flying debris by covering loads
or wetting material if necessary.
Construct temporary roads if necessary.
Use locally available construction
material wherever possible to minimize
transport distances.
- 88 -



Additional
Annex 12
Impact on Poverty Reduction
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
In Lao PDR, preserving the national and local networks through the improvement of the maintenance
system could have huge potential in the reduction of poverty. As for any improvement in the road
infrastructure, appropriately maintained roads could provide direct and indirect contributions to poverty
reduction, and this to a greater extent than mere new investment. The specific impact of the RMF would
depend upon the type and location of roads and the present condition of communities to which the
maintained roads provide or improve access. This annex briefly describes the Country background under
the profile of poverty, and discusses the potential impact that the preservation of the national and local road
networks can have in terms of poverty reduction.
Background
Until the Asian Financial Crisis struck Lao PDR, trends in social indicators were generally favorable.
With overall real annual growth of 6 to 7 percent during 1990-97, poverty declined. Analysis based on the
first Lao Expenditure and Consumption Survey (LECS1) of 1992/93 concluded that 46 percent of the Lao
population fell below the national poverty line, with substantial disparity among regional, rural/urban and
other bases. Subsequent analysis based on the second Lao Expenditure and Consumption Survey (LECS2)
of 1997/98 showed that the percentage of the population below the poverty line had fallen to 39 percent
(under the previous 2,100 calorie threshold, 36 percent for the revised 2,000 calorie threshold). This same
drop was confirmed by a Human Development Indicator analysis based on a very different set of
indicators.
This progress can be attributed to a combination of investment, growth, and the Government's emphasis on
poverty reduction through the eight national priority programs. However, since the collection of the LECS2
data and the extemal shock of the Asian Financial Crisis, it is likely to have caused a serious, but
temporary holdup in this trend. Although the percentage of poor in the population is still high, the poverty
gap is fairly low, and, therefore, sustained growth for a relatively short period of time can continue to
achieve sizable reductions in the percentage of poor. The poverty gap was estimated to be 12.3 percent
from the LECS 1 survey and 10.8 percent using more recent LECS2 data. The poverty gap is the mean
standardized distance between the poverty line and the mean consumption of those classified as poor.
Despite the improvements of the last decade, Lao PDR, still ranks low in social indicators compared with
its fellow East Asian countries, with East Asian countries averaging higher combined enrollment (99
percent vs. 55 percent), lower illiteracy rate (17 percent vs. 41 percent) and lower infant mortality (39 per
1000 live births vs. 96). Lao PDR continues striving to achieve indicator levels closer to the average for
East Asian countries.
Geographic and Locational Differences
The fastest declines in poverty between the LECS 1 and LECS2 were recorded in the rural south (57 to 44
percent) and the rural center (44 to 35 percent). Poor households in the center have a relatively low
poverty gap and severity measure. The rural north, on the other hand, has not improved and this area
contributes more than 50 percent of the severity of poverty measure. The poorest provinces are Huaphanh
and Oudomxay, with 60 to 70 percent of the population below the poverty line. Other poor provinces
include Phongsaly, Luang Namtha and Xaysomboon-S.R. with 50 to 60 percent of the population poor.
- 89 -



Over 50 percent of the population in these provinces is classified as very poor, that is, below the food
poverty line. Somewhat less than half the population is poor in the southern provinces of Sekong (the
poorest), Saravane and Attapeu. In Vientiane, municipality and provincial poverty levels are much lower,
with about 6 percent of the population below the poverty line. Nationwide, most poor households are rural.
The differences between the three macro-regions (North, South, Center) are presented in the following table
(Table 12.1).
Table 12.1 - Poverty Rate in Different the Macro-Regions (1992/93-1997/98)
Nor-h   Low Poverty            41.8%             4170/o
North        High Poverty       54.3%            52.1%
Centre       Low Poverty        22.2%            22.4%
Center       High Poverty       36.6%            29.5%
South        Low Poverty       32.8%             32.5%
South       High Poverty       48.8%            41.2%
The LECS2 data also show that the poverty rate is much higher in rural than urban areas (Table 12.2) with
roughly 53 percent of the rural population poor compared with 18 percent of the urban population.
Distribution of income within regions ranges from the most evenly distributed rural south (gini coefficient
0.30) to the least evenly distributed urban south (gini coefficient of 0.41).
Table 12.2 - Poverty Rate in Urban and Rural Areas (1992/93-1997/98)
Urban        Low Poverty        8.4%       r        .
Urban        High Poverty       17.8%            15.0%
Rural        Low Poverty       37.4%             34.4%
Rural       High Poverty       52.9%             43.8%
In the four provinces interested by the Rural Road Component of the project (Luang Namtha, Luang
Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack), over an aggregate total population of about 2 million people,
about 800,000 people, or 40 percent, live below the poverty line. The highest poverty incidence is in the
province of Luang Namtha (55 percent). The poor in the four provinces represent 36 percent of the total
poor in Lao PDR.
Socioeconomic Issues
The LECS2 data show a number of socioeconomic correlations to poverty. One is the size of the
household, with larger households being the poorer. For households of 10 persons or more, 57.3 percent
were poor. Gender of head of household is shown not to be a factor in determining poverty. Less than 5
percent of households are headed by females and they do not tend to be poorer.
LECS2 analysis also shows that poverty is correlated with the absence of complete primary schooling (the
full six grades). Villages that did not have complete primary schools had a 50 percent poverty rate, while
the average for other villages was only 32.7 percent. This strong correlation with poverty is a major reasor
behind the Government's high priority on building schools and improving instruction. Accessibility of poor
villages to teachers and mobility of poor students is another influencing factor. Among the health indicators
- 90 -



that correlated closely with poverty were travel time to a hospital (in excess of one day), an issue strongly
related to mobility and access to the road network.
More generally, the survey shows that in Lao PDR there is a strong correlation between poverty and access
to road infrastructure measured as distance from the main road as shown below (Table 12.3).
Table 12.3 - Access to Infrastructure in Lao PDR -Distance to Main Road (1997-98)
0 km            40.5%             30.9%
1-5 km           24.2%             38.6%
6-10 km            21.4%            36.5%
11+ km            13.9%             56.3%
The strong relationship between accessibility and poverty is also confirmed by other surveys. Data from the
National Statistics Centre (NSC) indicate that the incidence of poverty in rural areas is much higher for
communities without road access. Of the rural population with access to roads 35 percent are poor,
compared with 50 percent of the rural population without road access. Poverty is more prevalent among
households in villages that are never accessible by truck or only accessible in the dry season because of the
poorly maintained network. These data are presented in the following table (Table 12.4).
Table 12.4 - Road Access and Average per Capita Expenditure
North
% of population                 48.9             17.7             33.4
% of villages                   54.9             11.A             33.7
Average per capita        Kip 107,085     Kip 103,536      Kip 139,536
expenditure
Center
% of population                  5.0             33.2             61.8
% of villages                    7.2             38.6             54.2
Average per capita         Kip 96,454     Kip 151,149      Kip 172,081
expenditure
South
% of population                  13.2            35.3             51.5
% of villages                    14.0            35.0            51.1
Average per capita        Kip 130,225     Kip 114,354      Kip 146,142
expenditure
National
% of population                 21.7             28.4             49.9
% of villages                   33.5             29.4             37.2
Average per capita        Kip 109,030     Kip 131,019      Kip 158,947
expenditure
Source: Lao PDR Social Dcvelopment Asorsescnt and Strategy (World Bank 1995)
The data presented above indicates beyond doubt that improved access to the road networks, which in the
case of maintenance is translated in improved and less costly access to transportation, is a crucial issue that
should be taken into account in current and future poverty reduction strategies.
At the macro level, two major factors should be taken into account with respect to the geographic and
distribution of poverty. The first is the degree to which various populations are linked to the economy, and
the second is the distribution of resources going to the poorer locations. Linkage to the economy is essential
- 91 -



if an area is to benefit from the overall national growth. This linkage can be promoted through improved
access to transportation and markets. It is true that the non-linkage to the economy during the high
inflation period after the Asian Crisis might have been a benefit, but it is clear as a general rule that an area
must be linked to a growing economy in order to realize the benefits. In terns of equitable allocation of the
nation's resources to poorer areas, agriculture and infrastructure plans should concentrate on the areas with
the least infrastructure and service delivery.
The following section discusses the linkages between poverty and access to the road network at the micro
level.
Direct and Indirect Contribution to Poverty Reduction: Micro-evidence from the Community
Participation Workshop
To better understand the issues relating to poverty, its determninants, the provision of basic social services
and the access to a functional road network, the study on Community Participation in Rural Road
Maintenance - which culminated with the national workshop held in Vientiane in August 2000 - provided
very useful findings. These findings have been translated in a series of recommendations that have been
endorsed by GoL and by the major stakeholders.
As part of the RMP, the study was conducted to establish the priorities and major needs that rural
communities have in their road transport system and to determiine the role that these commnunities can play
in managing the maintenance of roads at the local level. The study was conducted in 100 villages each in
Luang Namtha and Savannakhet provinces, with data collected through a variety of methods, including
structured interviews with village leaders and households, and participatory discussions with village
groups. The main findings were:
*   Most villages are linked by poor quality, and in some cases, no roads to the outside world. Even
villages linked by national and provincial roads are of bad quality. Only 42 percent of the sample
villages are accessible all year round. 59 percent cannot be reached during the rainy season and 17
percent of the villages have no access. 58 percent of the sample villages are inaccessible for about five
months from June to October.
*   The impact of poor roads can be seen in all aspects of life in the village and results in longer time and
higher costs to access farm lots, schools, markets, clinics, and district administration offices which are
mainly located in towns.
*   Poor roads have adverse consequences on prices of farm products and values of assets. For example,
the price obtained for one kg paddy rice is 400 Kip in villages alongside rural roads compared with
about 600 Kip for villages on the provincial road of Champhone District. One hectare of paddy field
along the National Road No 17 to Long district is valued at about 5 million Kip while similar quality
land costs about I million Kip per hectare when there is poor road access to this area.
*   Poor roads (including paths, tracks and feeder roads) have especially negative effects on women. In
addition to being responsible for household chores such as collecting water and fuel, many rural women
are also more engaged than men in marketing family produce and retail trading which require transport
to the market. Poor rural roads also increase the costs of social interactions for women and act as a
constraint to their greater participation in society and the economy.
*   While 75 percent of the respondents stated that road improvement is likely to bring more benefit to the
most well-to do-groups in the village (those owning motorized vehicles), even poor villagers owning
hand tractors and ox carts felt that they would experience increased economic and social benefits from
improved roads.
- 92 -



*   Poor roads are generally an outcome of initial inadequate investment in a better quality road system
(e.g. badly engineered or poorly constructed earth and gravel roads) and/or damage caused by heavy
traffic, climatic conditions and lack of maintenance. Reasons for the lack of maintenance include the
lack of resources to undertake work, lack of mobilization efforts by the authorities, absence of a sense
of community ownership of rural roads, and lack of technical knowledge about the different forms of
maintenance required to ensure adequate protection to the road system.
*  Non-paid community based system is the most common system for rural road maintenance in the two
provinces. Paid community-based and small companies-based systems are being practiced on the
national and provincial roads of Luang Namtha Province while in Savannakhet Province, the non-paid
community based system can be found on the provincial roads. Only a small number of villages have
ever received training on road maintenance.
*   Most villagers were in favor of a system requiring their participation in rural road maintenance on
condition that tools and materials, and payment for time spent was provided. Only 10 percent of
respondents said that it is possible for them to contribute free labor. The great majority of respondents
also maintained that they are unable to contribute cash or materials to road maintenance in view of
their own inadequate incomes.
*   Most villagers said that clearing and cutting of bushes is a task that they can easily provide with free
labor. Removing of earth from drains and filling potholes are not difficult if the volume of the earth in
the drains is not excessive and gravel is available at the site. The most difficult task mentioned is the
removal of earth from landslides from the road.
*   On their preference for management of a road maintenance system, 63 percent of the respondents said
that road maintenance should be organized and supervised by the village authorities. 31 percent said
that a voluntary village committee for the road maintenance should be set up. A small minority
preferred contracting the work to a private company or to individuals within the villages.
The findings of the study were reviewed in two provincial level and a national workshop organized by the
MCTPC. Among the key recommendations adopted by the workshops to which senior officials of the
Ministry, donor agencies and other key players in the road sector participated, were:
*   need for establishment of a strong institutional framework for rural road maintenance and ensuring
community participation;
* need for adequate financial arrangements for rural road maintenance;
*   importance of building upon existing systems of community participation in rural road maintenance;
and
*  need for training and capacity building of villagers in routine road maintenance.
The national workshop also adopted the following resolutions:
*   it concurred on the vital importance of the rural road network to the improvement of the living
conditions of the rural population;
*   it recognized the necessity to upgrade and adequately maintain the rural road network;
* it called upon the Government and provincial authorities to improve the policy and institutional set-up
and coordination for road maintenance and to ensure that the major stakeholders - the villagers - play
an active role in road maintenance;
*   it called on the Government, donor agencies and other development partners to channel greater
- 93 -



resources and support towards establishment of a sustainable rural road maintenance system; and
* it called on contract procurement systems to be set up to encourage labor based or labor intensive work
methods utilizing greater community inputs.
A Functional Road Network as an Effective Component to a Poverty Reduction strategy in Lao PDR.
Primary and feeder road links essential to agricultural transformation and priority should be placed on
farm-to-market roads within an integrated rural development strategy. Roads investments are aimed at
alleviating one of the most serious constraints to balanced economic development, access. The
socio-economic benefits of road development are maximized through coordination with investments in
health, education and agriculture. Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning (IRAP) procedures should will
be used as a tool for planning and prioritization of investment decisions of the local road system. A
specific goal should be to improve access to health and education services and connect all provincial and
district centers to the all-weather road network. The competition for funds to improving the road network is
normally between expanding strategic access, reducing transport costs, improving eXisting roads and
developing maintainable access to rural communities. Within the limited funds, priority should be given to
maintenance of the existing primary and local networks and then the given to rehabilitation of
unmaintainable roads in rural areas where integrated socio-economic activities are in place.
Community participation should always be an important part of the road program. Close collaboration with
communities will ensure that stakeholders will participate in the planning of roads and that they will also be
informed of the final plan and construction schedule. Villages will also be involved in construction and
maintenance of roads. Procedures need to be developed to reduce obstacles to small companies getting
contracts for road work, such as assistance with simple contract documentation, identifying tasks
appropriate for village labor, and providing technical help for villages that want to bid on work.
The RMP's likely Impact on Poverty Reduction
The RMP's impact on poverty alleviation is likely to be significant in the rural areas along the national
roads and in the areas where the local road maintenance activities will be developed. In these latter areas
targeting the interventions could be particularly effective because the rural poor are often geographically
isolated and they are a relatively homogenous group. The main contribution to poverty reduction would be
in terms of improved access to basic health and education facilities and other social services in the district
centers and also at the village level when the villages are in the proximity of a national road.
Improved accessibility will reduce the perceptions of remoteness and isolation, thereby encouraging staff
employed in social services to visit and remain in those areas, consequently building the capacity in the
district. This is particular important in areas that suffer from poor service provision due to the inability to
attract/retain proper staff. By improving contact between provincial and district centers, district agencies
and offices can more adequately fulfill their role as the core or node of service provision at district level. By
maintaining regular physical contact and communications with province level agencies, district centers
should be able to provide a minimum level of service that is a marked improvement with respect to the
current situation.
Improved accessibility wills also facilitate contact with expertise and new technologies, thus encouraging a
shift from subsistence to production of agricultural goods for sale. Currently there in incentive to produce a
surplus as an adequate and all weather trade route cannot be established. Whilst, in the areas where
agricultural goods are imported, improved accessibility will help to bring down the prices of supplies.
Moreover, the envisaged maintenance works on the secondary road network would be based on
labor-intensive techniques and would provide the rural poor with income-earming opportunities. In addition,
scarcity of income-earning opportunities in poor rural areas will strengthen the incentive for participation,
- 94 -



which is often the key to the success for interventions. These would reinforce the sustainability of road
maintenance activity.
The localized benefits of labor-based methods would extend beyond the savings in the cost of roadwork and
the creation of jobs. Other benefits include savings on foreign exchange, injection of cash into the local
economy, and transfer of knowledge of road works to local communities.
1/ The poverty gap is the mean standardized distance between the poverty line and the mean consumption of those
classified as poor.
2/ Low (Food) Poverty: Households with a total monthly per capita consumption expenditure below what is needed
to buy food providing 2,100 calories per capita and day. High (National) Poverty: Including some non-food
allowance estimated as the mean amount spent on non-food for households close to the low poverty line.
- 95 -



Additional
Annex 13
Road Maintenance Fund Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Background
Since the mid 1 980s, GoL has invested significantly in the construction and rehabilitation of the road
network, this in order to mainly support the socio-economic development of the country. During the 1990'
s, road sector projects constantly absorbed about a half of the Government's Public Investment Plan (PIP)
and more than 5 percent of GDP. At current prices, the total investment of the past decade has been over
Kip 5,500 billion (US$730 million). This resulted in the upgrading of about 6,000 km of various type of
roads and bridges across the country. The estimated asset value of the roads has been estimated at Kip
9,000 billion (US$1.2 billion). The roads are therefore the largest public infrastructure asset of Lao PDR
and deserve the highest attention from the Government.
However, since the focus was on network expansion, there has not been great concem up to now about the
financial resources and the systems that are required for the maintenance and preservation of this
important and strategic asset. Over time, this has caused an accumulation of roads that are not adequately
maintained. Many of them are already in need of urgent repairs. In addition, recently constructed roads
are already showing symptoms of an accelerated wearing process due to insufficient maintenance and will
need to be strengthened much sooner than anticipated. If adequate resources for maintenance are not made
available urgently, the degradation of the existing network will accelerate, inevitably leading to the
dilapidation of the basic structure and collapse of many roads. According to this scenario, GoL
Government will have to borrow funds very soon to rehabilitate at high cost, and for the second time, the
same roads (a World Bank study indicated that an investment of US$18 billion dollars in the road
maintenance in the world last year could have save US$45 billion in reconstruction). The most likely
consequences will be: (i) a significant reduction of the national road asset value; (ii) bad road conditions
leading to unreasonable costs for the users, waste of economic and natural resources; (iii) utilization of
funds which could have been used in other sectors like health and education; (iv) reduction of donors
assistance in the road sector; and finally (v) hamper the overall socio-economic development of the country.
To avoid these disastrous consequences, minimal maintenance funding requirements will have to be
mobilized urgently. These funding requirements has been estimated at about Kip 116 billion (US$15.5
million). In comparison, the current allocation from the national budget for 1998/1999 is only Kip 13.5
million (US$1.8 million), which is definitely insufficient. Since GoL faces major budget constraints, it is
unlikely that it could generate sufficient additional financial resources from its current limited taxation
system or reallocate funds from another sector. It is therefore necessary to look at alternative mechanisms
that would generate new funds in order to ensure an adequate, stable and sustainable flow of funds for the
maintenance and preservation of the road network. The international trend indicates that the most
appealing and efficient mechanism is the establishment of a road maintenance fund.
Road maintenance funds are being adopted increasingly by several other countries. They treat roads in a
similar manner to other utilities, such as telecommunications, electricity and water where users pay
according to their consumption. This principle can be applied to the road sector where users pay an"
access" charge through an annual license or vehicle registration fee and then pay an "utilization" charge
- 96 -



through a levy on the fuel price. The appropriateness of such a financing system in the context of Lao
PDR has been discussed during the past two years through a series of World Bank supported workshops,
economic studies and a study tour in Ghana and Zambia in February 1999. As a result, GoL recognized
that the establishment of a road fund to preserve the road network is feasible in Lao PDR.
Road Maintenance Fund - Principles
A decree to establish a Road Maintenance Fund, that takes into account the existing administrative system
of GoL, was drafted at a policy workshop held in Vientiane in June 1999. After a year of debates and
adjustrnents, the decree No. 146/PM was enacted by the Prime Minister on October 12, 2000.
Unfortunately, a last minute change replace the proposed fuel levy by a share of the existing excise tax.
This is earmarking and IDA and Sida indicated that they could not support such concept. GoL indicated
that it would issue an amendment to the decree to re-introduce the fuel levy concept. The final decree is
based on the following key aspects:
Principle offunding
The funding of road maintenance shall be based on the principle that road users contribute the full costs of
maintaining the national road network and progressively contribute to the full cost of maintaining all roads.
Objectives of the fund
A Road Maintenance Fund is set up to:
(a) provide an adequate, stable, secure and sustainable source of maintenance
funds for the network;
(b) ensure transparency and accountability in the road maintenance funding
process;
(c) ensure that revenues obtained from road users under road user charges shall
be regarded as dedicated for the maintenance and operation of roads;
(d) ensure that all road users contribute the full costs of maintaining the national
road network and progressively contribute to the full costs of maintaining all
roads, while
-     eensuring that roads are priced so as to improve economic efficiency in
road transport,
-     promoting equity between different categories of road users,
*     promoting the principle of non-discrimination in implementing road user charging
instruments;
(e) be easily recognizable and separate from indirect taxes and other service
charges or fees;
(f) be simple to administer, and not subject to widespread evasion, avoidance
and leakage; and
(g) provide a revenue stream that enables road administrations at national and
local level to commercialize, so as to increase effectiveness and efficiency.
Road Maintenance Fund revenues
The revenues for the Fund shall be derived from:
a) surcharges on the price of gasoline diesel fuel, which together will be known
as the fuel levy; the fuel levy shall be over and above ordinary import duties,
general sales taxes, and other charges on fuels; the levy shall be used
exclusively as a source of revenue for the Fund; and the Ministry of Finance
shall convert existing allocations for road maintenance into a portion of the
- 97 -



fuel levy;
b) a heavy vehicle surcharge to be paid annually;
c) tolls on roads that are wholly publicly financed;
d) international transit charges which might be introduced to charge foreign
vehicles entering Lao from adjoining countries;
e) any other road user charges which may from time to time be assigned by the
National Assembly;
f) funding from donors that may from time to time be allocated to the Fund;
and
g) any capital gains made and interest or dividends earned on investments.
Application of the Fund
The Fund shall be applied to:
(a) emergency, routine and periodic maintenance works, and administration;
(b) rehabilitation works, provided that money shall not be allocated for
rehabilitation works before all maintenance works have been adequately
provided for;
(c) road safety projects and activities;
(d) meeting any other expenses incurred in administering the Fund; and
(e) such other activities as the Minister of Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction may approve.
Road Maintenance Advisory Board
A Road Maintenance Advisory Board shall be formed and its role will be to:
(a) advise on all matters relating to the management and financing of roads;
(b) recommend changes to the level of road user charges periodically to reflect
the requirements of road maintenance for the network;
(c) establish rules and procedures for reimbursement by non-road users of fuel
(d) monitor the implementation of road maintenance works by road
administrations ±eceiving money from the Fund;
(e) mobilize a publicity program to inform the public about road maintenance
needs and the role of the Fund; and
(f) prepare an annual report for submission to the Prime Minister and for
publication.
Dedicating the revenues
The Fund will be set up as a separate account operated by the Board.
Management of the Fund
The Board, under the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, shall manage the
Fund:
Road user participation in Road Fund management
(1) The composition of the Board will aim to encourage the participation of road users in the
management of the Fund. The Board will consist of six members, who will be persons of high
integrity.
(2) Public sector members will be appointed by the Prime Minister from nominations from:
(a)    Minister of Finance;
(b)    Minister of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction; and
- 98 -



(c)    Minister of Commerce.
(3) Private sector members will be appointed by the Prime Minister from nominations from the:
(a)    Lao Chamber of Commerce and Industry;
(b)   road transport operators;
(c)   road passenger transport industry; and
(d)   fuel importers group.
(4) The names of the Board members shall be published.
Chairperson of the Board
The Chairperson of the Board will be elected among and by its members. A Vice Chairperson shall be
elected from among all members of the Board.
Administration of the Fund
A Secretariat will be formed within the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction to
administer the Fund on a day-to-day basis. The Head of the Secretariat will be the secretary of the Board.
The staff will include a Secretary, an Technical-Audit-Review manager, a Finance Manager and an
Accountant. Staff will be recruited locally and paid private sector salaries.
Financial management
The Fund will be managed according to the legislation of the Government of Lao PDR
Collection and deposit arrangements
Road Maintenance Fund revenues will be deposited directly in the account of the Fund at the Central Bank.
Allocations from the Fund
Allocation of funds to the road network shall be based on need and functional classification, and will be
designed to encourage accountability and the use of cost-effective methods of expenditure. The allocation
will aim to be simple and consistent, and be based upon factors such as the following:
a) the resources available to the Fund;
b) basic percentage split of the total funds available between roads of different
functional class, and urban and rural roads, based on an overall assessment of
economic and social need that is reviewed periodically;
c) allocations for cyclic and reactive routine maintenance, and for
administration, based on a formula in terms of road class, length, width,
surface type, traffic level of roads in each road administration;
d) allocations for emergencies based on bids from administrations immediately
after the need is identified;
e) allocations for periodic and renewal works on the basis of annual bids based
on measured need determined in a standard manner.
f) the need to maximize effective utilization of resources from the Fund; and
g) past performance by road administrations in use of the money from the
Fund.
Detailed formulae and criteria will be determined by the Board in consultation with the stakeholders and
reviewed when necessary.
Disbursement from the Fund
As with allocation, one of the aims of disbursement is to encourage accountability and cost-effectiveness.
Funds for routine maintenance and administration shall be disbursed on a conditional basis in advance;
funds for all other works will be disbursed on the basis of completed works certified by an independent
- 99-



professional engineer. The money will be paid from the Fund directly to the contractor or organization
carrying out the works.
Withdrawal procedures
Funds will be withdrawn from the Fund on presentation of a check signed by authorized signatories
appointed by the Minister.
Retention of money by the Fund
At the end of each financial year, money in the Fund which is un-spent will be canied forward to the
following financial year.
Adjustment of Levels of Road User Charges
The Minister, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, and on the advice of the Board, may by
statutory instrument:
(a) change the rate or incidence of any road user levy, charge or tax;
(b) withdraw any road user levy, charge or tax; or
(c) suspend any road user levy, charge or tax in whole or in part.
Audit of accounts
The accounts of the Fund shall be subject to audit under the Govenmment Audit Regulations. The results of
audits will be published.
Annual report
The Board shall submit an annual report to the Prime Minister, and this shall be published.
Policy development
The policy will be subject to regular review to seek ways of improving the way that the Fund operates, so
that the quality and quantity of road maintenance continues to improve to the benefit of the road network
and all sectors of the country.
Road Maintenance Fund - Operational Procedures.
To help the Road Maintenance Advisory Board and its Secretariat in carrying out their duties, a specialized
consultant assist GoL in establishing operational procedures, drafting terms of reference for each position,
and identifying training requirements and future technical assistance needs (report available on project
files). The operational procedures include:
*  Engineering procedures such as program preparation and approval, revenues allocation
mechanism.
*   Procurement procedures including bidding documents, methodology, scheduling, certification,
contract management, reporting
*   Financial procedures including budgeting, establishment of level of charges, collecting and deposit
arrangements, disbursement arrangements, cash management, accounting, reporting,
*   Technical and financial audit requirements
*   Management arrangements including duties, appointment, code of ethic, meeting requirements,
administrative requirements, remuneration, job descriptions, etc.
Training requirements and technical assistance identified will be provided under RMP-1.
- 100 -



Additional
Annex 14
Letter of Development Program
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Introduction
1.    The Government of Lao PDR (GOL) vision for the transport sector is to provide river and air
transport and make the road network trafficable all year round from the center to the province and between
districts in order to support production, distribution, national integration and security. Carrying the vast
majority of freight and passenger traffic, roads also support regional and international trade and play a
critical role in rural areas, where they support agriculture and tourism and enable the rural population to
gain access to essential social services.
2.    To accomplish this vision, the Ministry of Communication Transport Post and Construction
(MCTPC) has developed in full consultation with the main stakeholders a strategy for the road sector,
which is outlined in the document Strategic Directionsfor the Development of the Road Sector of June
2000. The strategy is based on the following nine measures:
a) Develop road sector institutions and an integrated management system;
b) Provide balance in funding allocation across the road system and give funding priority to
preserving the capital value of road sector assets;
c) Enforce measures to protect road sector assets from overweight vehicles;
d) Establish a sustainable domestic funding base;
e) Provide an environment suitable for a sustainable domestic contracting industry;
f) Provide "focal sites" with access to agriculture support and health and education services, and
connect all provincial and districts centers to all-weather network;
g) Minimize environmental and social impacts;
h) Improve traffic safety; and
i) Encourage community participation in the planing and execution of road sector activities.
3.    To pursue the above strategy, taking into account that the activities in the road sector have grown
and become more sophisticated, GOL intends to develop a modem and sustainable road financing and
management system. This system will ensure adequate funding for the maintenance of the road network
and guarantee that funds are being used effectively. Such a system shall also provide for the active
participation and contribution of road users and beneficiaries in the management and funding of road
maintenance activities and shall consent to all the institutions and organizations involved to deliver quality
works and services at the most reasonable cost. The proposed Road Maintenance Project (RMP), assisted
by the International Development Association (IDA), the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and the
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), will help GOL pursue its strategy and a
portion of its long-term sectoral goal by focusing on the development and implementation of a financing
and management system for the maintenance of the road network.
4.     RMP will support the establishment of a financing mechanism for the preservation of the road
assets through the mobilization of additional resources for the maintenance of the network and their
efficient utilization. This mechanism is based on a dedicated fund, whose revenues are collected from road
user charges that are related to the utilization of the road network - mainly a fuel levy and a heavy vehicles
- 101 -



charge - and to the needs for its sustainable maintenance. The major stakeholders, including road users and
beneficiaries will be involved in the process of managing and allocating these resources on the basis of
sound, economic, environmental and social principles. RMP will also support the strengthening of the
institutions dealing with road maintenance activities at the central, provincial and local level. This will
include government organizations as well as the contracting/consulting industry and local organizations.
Moreover, the program will support the implementation of a system to reduce the damage to the road
network caused by truck overloading.
5.    RMP would run over a period of nine years from 2001 to 2009 and will cover two phases to
accompany the substantial policy and institutional reforms sought.
6.    RMP indicative costs, estimated at about US$ 116 mnillion, would be financed at about 52 percent
by IDA. The remaining costs will be financed by GOL and by other bilateral donors (including NDF and
Sida for first phase of RMP).
The Program
Goal
7.    The purpose of the RMP is the sustainable preservation of road assets through the development
and implementation of financing and management maintenance systems.
8.    To achieve this goal, GOL will pursue the following agenda:
a) Additional financial resources for road maintenance are mobilized and efficiently used;
b) Capacities of institutions dealing with road maintenance activities at central, provincial and local
level is strengthened, including strengthening of government organizations, contracting/consulting
and involvement of road users/beneficiaries; and
c) Overloading is reduced.
Phasing
9.    RMP will include two phases: development and initiation (RMP-1) and operation and expansion
(RMP-2). During RMP- 1, the maintenance systems for the national road network (NRN) will be completed
and implemented countrywide, and the maintenance systems for the maintenance of the provincial, district
and rural roads, designated henceforth as local road network (LRN) will be developed and tested in four
selected provinces comprising Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack. During
RMP-2, the maintenance systems for the NRN and LRN will be refined, taking into account the lessons
learned during the first phase, and will be gradually implemented throughout all the provinces.
Key Policy and Institutional Reforms
10.   The RMP, through its various components, will introduce and support the changes and institutional
reforms which are outlined below.
a) Securingfinancing and an efficientpricingpolicy- A cost recovery policy - where users pay for
the services they receive - will be one of the key RMP objectives. To achieve this objective, GoL
has established a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) that will guarantee a regular and eventually
- 102-



adequate flow of funds to maintain the entire road network. Simultaneously, the Road
Maintenance Fund will introduce an efficient pricing policy by directly charging road users through
the fuel levy in a measure proportional to the marginal cost of their journey (para. 11 - 14 provides
more details).
b) Giving maintenance priority - The paradigm shift in GOL policy means that the unbalanced
allocation of resources between new investment/rehabilitation and maintenance will be corrected on
the basis of optimal socio-economic and affordability criteria. The preservation of the existing
network will receive priority over its expansion.
c) Adopting sound business practices- The capacity strengthening and institutional restructuring
actions will allow for clarifying managerial responsibilities and objectives among the various
departments and between the center and the provinces. The introduction of an effective road
management system, financial management procedures, accounting and auditing processes will
result in a more efficient expenditure of the funds.
d) Involving stakeholders- Stakeholders will be involved at all levels. Road user and private sector
interests will be represented on the RMAB. Moreover, through an awareness campaign, road users
at-large will be informed on their rights, their duties and the way user charges are spent. Local
communities will actively participate in establishing the priorities for maintenance and will actively
contribute to it. Additionally, GOL will initiate a more effective donor coordination process, thus
avoiding overlapping of activities and leveraging the effect of resources.
e) Axle Load Control - A reduction of overloading through the implementation of a national strategy
will require the Government to review its existing regulations on licensing fees and overloading
fines.
Road Maintenance Fund
11.    Since the mid 1980s, GoL has invested significantly in the construction and rehabilitation of the
road network, this in order to mainly support the socio-economic development of the country. During the
1990's, road sector projects constantly absorbed about a half of the Government's Public Investment Plan
(PIP) and more than 5 percent of GDP. At current prices, the total investment of the past decade has been
over Kips 5,500 billion ($730 million). This resulted in the upgrading of about 6,000 Km of various type
of roads and bridges across the country. The estimated asset value of the roads has been estimated at Kips
9,000 billion ($1.2 billion). The roads are therefore the largest public infrastructure asset of Lao PDR and
deserve the highest attention from the Government.
12.   However, since the focus was on network expansion, there has not been great concern up to now
about the financial resources and the systems that are required for the maintenance and preservation of this
important and strategic asset. Over time, this has caused an accumulation of roads that are not adequately
maintained. GoL has recognized that this lack of maintenance likely will have the following consequences:
(i) a significant reduction of the national road asset value; (ii) bad road conditions leading to unreasonable
costs for the users, waste of economic and natural resources; (iii) utilization of funds which could have
been used in other sectors like health and education; (iv) reduction of donors assistance in the road sector;
and finally (v) hamper the overall socio-economic development of the country.
13.    To avoid these disastrous consequences, minimal maintenance funding requirements will have to be
mobilized urgently. These funding requirements have been estimated at about Kips 116 billion ($15.5
million). Since GoL faces major budget constraints, it is unlikely that it could generate sufficient additional
financial resources from its current limited taxation system or reallocate funds from another sector. GoL
has therefore decided to create a Road Maintenance Fund.
- 103 -



14.   The Road Maintenance Fund decree was initially enacted by the Prime Minister on October 12,
2000, under Decree No. 146/PM and was later replaced by Decree No. 09/PM of January 15, 2001, in
order to introduce a fuel levy as an additional source of revenue for the RMF in replacement of a portion of
the existing excise tax. This amendment was allowed by a Presidential Decree that amended the tax law.
The Road Maintenance Fund will work under the following principles:
a) Funding: The road users would contribute through the RMF to the costs of maintaining the
national road network and progressively contribute to the full cost of maintaining all roads.
b) Revenues: The revenues of the RMF will be derived from users charges including among other
sources to be established; a heavy vehicle surcharge, tolls, international transit charges, funds from
donors, and mainly a surcharge, known as levy, on the price of gasoline and diesel fuel; the said
fuel levy shall be over and above ordinary import duties, general sales taxes and other charges; the
fuel levy shall be used exclusively as a source of revenue for the fund; the level of the fuel levy and
of the other charges will be set and annually adjusted by the Ministry of Finance in consultation
with the Ministry of Communication Transport Post and Construction and on the advice of the
Road Maintenance Advisory Board. The revenues shall be deposited directly into the Road
Maintenance Fund bank account.
c) Application: The RMF proceeds will be applied in order of priority to: (a) emergency, routine and
periodic maintenance works, and administration; (b) rehabilitation works, provided that money
shall not be allocated for rehabilitation works before all maintenance works have been adequately
provided for; and (c) road safety projects and activities, when resources permit.
d) Administration: The RMF will be set up as a separate account operated and managed by a Road
Maintenance Advisory Board (RMAB) with representatives of the private sector. A small
Secretariat will be instituted within MCTPC for the daily administration of the Road Maintenance
Fund. The RMAB will supervise, direct, and recommend on matters related to the overall
management and financing of road maintenance. The members of this board will be appointed by
the Prime Minister and will include nominees from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Communication Transport Post and Construction, Ministry of Commerce, Lao Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, Fuel Importer Group, Operators of Land Transport and Operators of
Land Transport for Passengers. The Chairperson will be elected by its members. The board will
report to the Minister of MCTPC. The Board will recommend adjustment to the various charges
and levies.
e) Allocation: Allocation of funds for maintenance works along the road network shall be based on
need, functional classification and on socio-economic considerations, with the ultimate objective
being the sustainable preservation of the road network asset.
]) Audit and Reporting: The accounts of the Road Maintenance Fund shall be subject to annual
audits to be carried out by an independent auditor and in compliance with Government audit
regulations. The board will also submit an annual report to the Prime Minister. Both reports will
be made available to the public.
g) Fuel Levy. GoL has set the initial fuel levy at 40 Kip per liter. Notwithstanding the
recommendation of the Road Maintenance Advisory Board, the fuel levy will be increased by a
minimum of 50 percent per year plus annual inflation during the first three years of existence of the
Fund.
h) Heavy Vehicle Surcharge. The initial rates are delineated in the following table. Notwithstanding
the recommendation of Road Maintenance Advisory Board, the rates will be increased by a
minimum of 25 percent per year plus inflation rate during the first three years of existence of the
Fund.
- 104 -



Type of Vehicle               Class            Heavy vehicle Surcharge
l _______________                                      (KiDs   1.000)
Trucks              Weight (tons)
Light                  >2 to 4                      200
Medium                  >4 to 7                      280
Heavy                    >7                         440
Buses                   Seats
>12 to 24                     120
>24 to 42                     200
_______________     _    -.      >42                         320
Tri2eers and Performance Indicators
Triggers
15.     The appraisal of the second phase of RMP-2 will be initiated when GOL will have achieved the
following objectives:
a)  Financial resources, including revenues recovered directly from road users, allocated for the
maintenance of the maintainable NRN and LRN meet 35 percent of the requirements as estimated
by the Road Management System (RMS) which will be made operational within MCTPC during
the first year of RMP implementation in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
b)  GOL FY 2003/2004 maintenance and investment program on NRN is prioritized using the RMS.
c)  60 percent of RMP Credit disbursed in accordance with the loan requirements.
Key Performance Indicators
16.     To monitor the performance of the program the following indicators will be used:
Base value     End of        End of
RMP-I        RMP-2
Management Effectiveness
Percentage of vehicles overloaded on the NRN  70%           40%          15%
Financial Sustainability
Domestic revenues, including those recovered
directly from  road users, allocated for the   7%           40%          90%
maintenance of the maintainable NRN and LRN
meets the needs at:
Physical Conditions - Road Users
Satisfaction
Average International Roughness Index (IRI) o  BLV*         10%          20%
the currently maintainable NRN (3,700 km) does
not increase by more than:                       .
* Base line value will be established by Road Condition Survey that will be carried out between February-July
2001 under the IDA-financed Third Highway Improvement Project.
- 105 -



Components. Costs and Financing Plan
Components
17.   RMP would include the following Components:
Preservation of the Road Network through Civil Works
Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works - RMP will finance periodic maintenance works
and rehabilitation works on various maintainable sections of the NRN and LRN. Under RMP- 1,
periodic maintenance works will be undertaken on selected sections of the NRN, about 1,000 km
countrywide, and on portions of the LRN for a total of 300 km in the four selected Provinces of
Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang Savannakhet and Champassack. Under RMP-2, periodic and
rehabilitation works will be financed on various sections of the NRN and LRN.
Routine Maintenance Works - RMP will finance emergency and routine maintenance works on the
maintainable sections of the NRN and LRN. Since these expenditures are recurrent in nature, GOL
will finance this component entirely through both the road maintenance fund and the consolidated
budget. Under RMP-I, routine maintenance works will be carried out on the maintainable portions of
the NRN (3,700-4,700 km) countrywide and on maintainable portions of the LRN (700-1,100 km)
in the four selected provinces. Under RMP-2, routine maintenance works will be carried out on the
maintainable sections of the NRN and of the LRN in all provinces. Quantitative targets and related
costs for RMP-2 will be defined during its preparation.
Control Heavy Veh'cle Axle Load - RMP will support the implementation of a system to reduce
overloading on the road network. Under RMP-1, seven (7) permanent axle load weight stations -
including electronic scales - will be constructed along strategic point on the NRN. In addition,
seventeen (17) laybys will be constructed along strategic points of the NRN where trucks would be
weighed by mobile scales. Permanent and mobile weight-scales will be provided as well as training
and vehicles to the axle-load control patrols. Technical assistance will also be provided in order to:
(i) create a partnership between the transport industry and the Government; (ii) amend the related
regulations relative to axle load limits; (iii) encourage the replacement of single-axle by multi-axle
trucks over time; and (iv) to increase fines for overloading. An analysis of the effectiveness of the
strategy will be carried out before the end of RMP-1 to identify remaining issues to be tackled under
RMP-2.
Building Institutional Capacity
Complete Establishment of Road Management System - RMP will complete the development and
establishment of an integrated road management system (RMS), which would cover all aspects of the
road planning process for the NRN and LRN. Under RMP- I, consultancy services would be
provided to the Technical and Planning Division (PTD), the Road Administration Division (RAD)
and Local Roads Division (LRD) of MCTPC Department of Roads and the four selected provincial
DCTPCs to make the RMS fully operational for the NRN and to develop and test the RMS for the
LRN. In addition, RMP- 1 will finance the introduction of the Integrated Rural Accessibility
Planning (IRAP) road prioritization procedure of the Intemational Labour Organization (ILO) in
Champassack Province. Under RMP-2, the capacity to use the RMS for the NRN and LRN will be
developed in all remaining DCTPCs.
Assist Implementation of Road Maintenance Fund - RMP will help establish a sustainable financing
- 106 -



mechanism for the maintenance of the NRN and LRN. Under RMP-l, consultant services will be
provided to assist the efficient operation of the Road Maintenance Fund and the Road Maintenance
Advisory Board and its Secretariat. Additional assistance will be provided under RMP-2 if during its
appraisal it is deemed necessary.
Improve Project Preparation, Execution and Monitoring - RMP will help develop institutional
capacity to manage projects. Under RMP-1, consultant services will be provided to the Project
Monitoring and Disbursement Divisions of the MCTPC-Department of Roads and the DCTPCs of
the four selected provinces to assist and develop internal capacity in managing technical and financial
aspects of the projects. In addition, specific capacity building activities will be undertaken (English
language training, study tours, workshops, seminars, fellowships, and support to the newly
established Information Archive and Conference Center). Under RMP-2, similar assistance will be
provided to all other DCPTCs.
Develop Strategy to Improve Performance of Local Contracting and Consulting Industry - RMP
will support the development of the local contracting and consulting industry. Under RMP-l, a
strategy will first be defined and implemented jointly by MCTPC, the Road Maintenance Advisory
Board and the local contracting and consulting industry. If needed, its implementation will also be
supported under RMP-2.
Involve Road Users-Beneficiaries in Road Maintenance Activities - RMP will foster the
involvement of the road users and beneficiaries in the delivery and management of road maintenance
activities. Under RMP- 1, consultant services will be provided to help establish a road users
associations and establish and implement a strategy to involve villages of the four selected Provinces
in the maintenance of their roads. Among other initiatives, the development of small-scale community
contractors will also be pursued. Similar initiatives will be supported under RMP-2.
18.    The estimated costs in US$ million for the above components are presented in the table below.
RMP-1  RMP-2  Program
________________________________________________ _____ Total-
Preservation of the Road Network through Civil Works
-  Periodic Mainienance and Rehabilitation Works     27.90
-  Routine Maintenance Works                        13.41
-  Control Heavy Vehicle Axle Load                   3.08
Building Institutional Capacity
-  Complete Establishment of Road Management System  0.63
-  Assist Establishment of Road Maintenance Fund     0.54
-  Improve Project Monitoring                        0.75
-  Improve the Performance of Contracting/Consulting Industry   0.02
-  Involve Road Users/Beneficiaries in Maintenance Activities    0.05
Total                                                46_4
- 107-



Financing Plan (in US Million)
GOL       IDA     NDF/SIDA    TOTAL
RMP-I         15.0     25.0      5.9         45.9
RiMP-2*       35.0     35.0      ??          70.00
TOTAL         40.7     60.0      6.0         115.9
* Estimates. To be detcrmined during appraisal of Phase two of RMP
Implementation Arrangements
19.   The program will involve the following institutions and organizations:
MCTPC - The MCTPC will implement the Program. It will be achieved in a manner to maximize
capacity-building through the use of existing internal resources and administrative structures. No special
unit will be created to manage the project. The Department of Roads (DOR), the Department of Transport
(DOT), the Department of Personnel (DP) and all MCTPC provincial branches (DCTPCs) will be
involved.
DOR-PMD. In order to improve donor cooperation and project effectiveness, MCTPC recently created the
Project Monitoring Division (PMD) to monitor the implementation of all foreign-assisted projects.
Therefore, this unit will have the overall project monitoring function for the project. It will be the first
contact point and will be responsible to report on project activities. In addition, the PMD will have the
overall responsibility to manage the procurement of all equipment and consultant services financed under
RMP-1.
DOR-RAD. The Road Administration Division (RAD) will; (i) plan routine maintenance works of the
NRN using Routine Maintenance Management System; (ii) operate and maintain the Bridge Management
System for the NRN; (iii) prepare detailed designs and bidding documents for periodic maintenance works
on the NRN; (iv) provide technical guidance and training to the DCTPCs for the procurement and
day-to-day management of maintenance works on the NRN, including monitoring, using the MES; and (iv)
provide training to local contracting industry.
DOR-PTD. The Planning and Technical Division will be responsible for developing, operating and
maintaining the Road Management System for the NRN and LRN including the location referencing and
inventory surveys, periodic road condition surveys, traffic surveys, traffic management system, road
database, and pavement management system. It will liaise with the Sida-supported PCU and LRD for the
development aspects of the Road Management System for the LRN.
DOR-DD. The Disbursement Division (DD) will be responsible for the administrative and financial
management of the project activities.
DOR-LRD. The Local Roads Division (LRD) will be responsible to implement the Integrated Rural
Accessibility Planning (IRAP) initiative in Champassack province. It will be assisted jointly by the ILO
Advisory Support Information Services and Training (ILO-ASIST) and Sida-PCU.
DOR-Environmental and Social Unit. The Environmental and Social Unit will be responsible to ensure
that: (i) those affected by any sub-projects are compensated, resettled and/or rehabilitated in accordance
with the Resettlement Policy and provide an annual report on the environmental and social impacts of the
- 108 -



works carried out under the program; and (ii) all road maintenance works are at all times carried out in
confornity with the Environmental Guidelines and otherwise in a manner which ensures that any adverse
environmental impact is effectively mitigated in a timely and satisfactory manner.
DOT-TCD. The Transport Control Division (TCD) and its provincials arms, the Transport Control Units
(TCU) within the DCTPCs, will be responsible for the implementation of the Heavy Transport
Management Program component of the project.
DCTPCs and Districts - The DCTPCs and their districts will: (i) program and plan the maintenance works
on the LRN in the selected provinces; (ii) procure and supervise the maintenance programs on the NRN and
LRN in selected provinces; (iii) report to DOR-RAD on the financial status of the project activities that
they will implement; and (iv) provide technical assistance to local communities involved in the planning and
delivery of maintenance programs on the LRN.
PD-MDD. The Manpower Development Division of the Personnel Department (PD) will be responsible for
the preparation, implementation and monitoring of human resources development activities financed by the
project.
RMAB and Secretariat -The Road Maintenance Fund will be managed by a Board and Secretariat which
initially will report to the MCTPC Minister. The Secretariat will comprise a small team comprising a
Secretary, an Audit-Review Manager, a Finance Manager and an Assistant Accountant that will manage
the day-to-day operations of the RMF. These staff will be hired locally under local market conditions. For
a limited period they will be assisted and trained by a highly experienced consultant.
Sida-PCU. Development and introduction of financing and management system for the LRN will be
implemented under the overall management of the Sida-assisted Project Coordination Unit. Consultants
services will be provided to assist the DCTPCs, districts and villages in this regard. The Sida-fmanced
consultants will also help the DCTPCs and the districts prepare, procure and supervise maintenance works
on the LRN financed by IDA under RMP.
Coordination-Committee. To ensure the smooth implementation and foster coordination between activities
financed by Sida and IDA, a Coordination Committee (CC) will be created. The CC will comprise the
following members: DOR Director General, PTD Director, RAD Director, TCD Director, LRD Director,
PMD Director and Sida-PCU.
Endotsed by:
a      hng Voradit                  Date
Pne Minsiter and Minister of Finance
_______            o 8~~ JAN 2001
M. Phao Boutnaphol                     Date
ilonorabie MMmister of MCITC
- 109 -



Additional
Annex 15
Memorandum of Agreement between MCTPC and DCPTCs
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
To ensure that the execution of project procurement activities are in full compliance with World Bank
procurement procedures, the following agreement was signed between the Minister of MCTPC and the
Governor of each Province.
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (RMP)
Agreement between the Ministry of Communication Transport Post and Construction and
(Insert) Province
This document represents the agreement between the Ministry of Communication Transport Post and
Construction (MCTPC) and (Insert) Province for the procurement of works canied out under the RMP
program. Failure to comply with following will lead to the cancellation of the funding for the program in
the province.
1.  Pre-Registration
An advertisement will be placed in the National Newspapers by MCTPC informing contractors of the
proposed program and the mode for pre- registration.
The Provinces will also advertise in their respective Provinces by MCTPC on radio and television, if
available.
The Provinces will follow the pre-registration and evaluation documents prepared by MCTPC
The respective Province will be responsible for the receipt and evaluation of all pre - registration
documents from the Contractors.
The Provinces will submit to MCTPC, by a pre-determined date, the contractors submission and the
evaluation by the Provinces on the category that they consider the contractor should be placed.
The MCTPC will have the power to re-categorize these contractors, based on information provided and
subsequent investigations of the contractors by MCTPC staff.
A full list of pre-registration contractors will be sent to all Provinces with reasons for any modifications
undertaken (if any).
The Provinces, within 7 calendar days, must respond to information contained in the pre-registration list.
Failure to do so will be taken as a sign of approval of the pre-registration list
2. Economic Analysis of the Project
- 110 -



Condition data as requested by MCTPC will be collected by the Provinces in conjunction with MCTPC,
and sent to MCTPC for evaluation of the project.
MCTPC will train the Provinces in data collection and evaluation.
This data will be collected in line with the MCTPC guidelines.
3. Scheduling of Procurement
a)  The MCTPC shall review the procurement arrangements proposed by the Provinces, including
contract packaging, and the scheduling of the procurement process, for its conformity with the procurement
process.
b) The Provinces shall promptly inform the MCTPC of any delays, or other changes in the scheduling of
the procurement process, which could significantly affect the timely and successful implementation of the
project contracts, and agree with the MCTPC in corrective measures.
4. Periodic Maintenance Works
Prior Review of all Projects
With respect to all contracts under RMP agreement:
(a) Before bids are invited, the MCTPC shall furnish to the Provinces, bidding documents, including the
invitation to bid; instructions to bidders, the basis of bid evaluation and contract award; and the conditions
of contract and specifications for the civil works.
(b) The Engineer's Estimates and bill of quantities will be prepared by the Provinces, under the guidelines
produced by MCTPC, These shall be submitted to MCTPC for approval.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, the Provinces shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
furnish to the MCTPC, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award and such other information as the
MCTPC shall reasonably request. The MCTPC shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Loan Agreement, promptly inform the Provinces and state the reasons for its
deternination. The format for such an evaluation will be made on the MCTPC guidelines
(d) If the Provinces requires an extension of bid validity to complete the process of evaluation, obtain
necessary approvals and clearances, and to make the award, it should seek the MCTPC prior concurrence
for the first request for extension, if it longer than eight weeks, and for all subsequent requests for
extension, irrespective of the period.
(e) The terms and conditions of a contract shall not, without the MCTPC's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or pre-qualification of Contractors, was invited.
- 111 -



Modifications
Before granting a material extension of the stipulated time for performance of a contract, agreeing to any
modification or waiver of the conditions of such contract, including issuing any change order or orders
under such contract (except in case of extreme urgency) which would in aggregate increase the original
amount of the contract, the Provinces shall inform the MCTPC of the proposed extension, modification, or
change order and the reason, therefore. If the MCTPC determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provision of the Loan Agreement, it shall promptly inform the Provinces and state the reason for
its determination. A copy of all amendments to the contract shall be furnished to the MCTPC for its
records.
Signing of Contract
The Provinces will submit the results of the bid evaluation to MCTPC following the MCTPC guidelines
and MCTPC will inform the Provinces on the approval of the award of the contract.
Three conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the MCTPC promptly after signature of the
contract.
The MCTPC will check and then will send a copy of the contract to the World Bank with the bid
evaluation before the first payment.
Translations
The Provinces shall be furnished to the MCTPC together with the conformed copies of the contract a copy
of the pre - qualification, bid evaluation and other related documents in English
Technical Audit of Works
The MCTPC reserves the right to carry out full technical audit of each contract These audits will be based
on the proposed program and the physical works completed.
Failure of an acceptable audit may result in project termination.
Check List Procurement of Work
Responsibly         Yes   No    Date
Pre-reQistration
Advertisement Placed           MCTPC & Provinces
Pre-registration documents received   Provinces
Document evaluated                    Provinces
Evaluation completed                  Provinces
Document sent to MCTPC                Provinces
Pre-registration approved             MCTPC
Inforrnation sent to Province         MCTPC
Responsive from Province received 7 days   Provinces
Economic Analysis
Condition data sent to MCTPC          Provinces
Condition data evaluation             MCTPC
Additional data requested fromn Provinces    MCTPC
Procurement Process
- 112 -



Documents completed                    MCTPC
Bills of Quantities Produced           Provinces
Engineer Estimates reviewed            MCTPC
Bill of Quantities reviewed            MCTPC
Documents sent to Provinces            MCTPC
Bid Received                    Provinces
Advertisement Placed National newspapers  MCTPC
Advertisement Placed by Provinces      Provinces
( radio and television )
Engineer Estimates Produced            Provinces
Bids responsive                        Provinces
Bids evaluated                         Provinces
Evaluation report sent to Provinces    Provinces
Approval received to award contract    MCTPC
Signed document sent to Provinces      Provinces
5. Routine Maintenance
With respect to routine maintenance the following will apply.
(a) The data on the condition of the roads will be sent to MCTPC.
(b) MCTPC will produce on overall budget for presentation for funding.
(c) MCTPC will inform the Provinces of funding levels.
(d) The Provinces will compile contract documents, on a format approved by MCTPC, based on Bills of
Quantities and unit rates, for tender
(e) The tender will be competitive bidding or direct negotiation, depending of the capacity and number of
contractors capable of undertaking the works in the respective Province
(f) The documents will be reviewed by MCTPC for approval
(g) MCTPC will inform Provinces' of the approval or procedures needed for approval
(h) MCTPC will place a general advertisement in the National Papers informing of the pending requests
for interested contractors is for these works.
(i) Provinces will place local advertisements for these works.
(j) Details of the advertisement method of procurement responsive will be sent to MCTPC. Copies of the
evaluation process will be sent to MCTPC.
(k) MCTPC will inform Provinces of the funding levels and approve the award of the contract.
(1) Provinces will award the contracts and send signed copies of the bids to MCTPC.
- 113-



(m) All labor engaged on the projects, either directly or indirectly, will be guaranteed a minimum hourly
basic wage. This wage will be fixed in consultations with the provinces concerned and reflect the true
value of labor in the province
(n) The progress report for these works will be sent to the MCTPC at the end of each and every month.
(o) MCTPC will report to the World Bank on a quarterly basis of both the physical and financial progress
of the works.
Check List Routine Maintenance
Responsibly         Yes           No    Date
Data Collection                        Provinces
Data sent to MCTPC              Provinces
Budget approved (received from GOL)    MCTPC
Details sent to Provinces              MCTPC
Contract Document Produced      Provinces
General Advertisement Placed           MCTPC
Local Advertisement Placed             Provinces
Details of advertiseirmnt and
evaluation sent to MCTPC               Provinces
Funding levels confirm and
approval for award of contracts given  MCTPC
Copies of signed contract sent to MCTPC    Provinces
At .,date                 /               At ................... ,date  /    /
Signed by:                                             Signed by:
Governor of             Province                Minister of MCTPC
- 114-



(The following are copies of the signed authorizations between the MCTPC and the Provincial Governors.)
.4.t I.ouzarrgprabantp. date   b  Q U,f (, .2N  ........At Vientiane,. date  _) DE 2 0W
Signed by                                            Siled bv.
(Xc,vcr'rrcr e> 1 tt*a angj,, alarrg Pr ovi nece      M .II
1 DEC "
At Champaszack. date           ..... i    . /.. .  At Vierttian.. date  /  /
Signed by.                                           StignTed by:
23 N-t I  AJl                     9Ceimr5ts  sDriAfwl
At Louantgutnaritha, date  /    /__    At Vieniiane, datte   I 1, DEC
Signied by:                                        Signed by:
tiA.        ouanignamtha Province                             MC"IPC
~~~O                 , .                   -@       E m1at:srAoD
DEC
At Savanitnaklhet. (iate i    4 IDEC 'MOD    At Vientiane. date  _ I l 709°
SignedI b[:                                         Signed by:
Savinriakhet Provitet .z_
- 115-



Additional
Annex 16
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Memorandum of Understanding
between
Swedish International Development Cooperation Association
and the
International Development Association
Transport Sector in Lao PDR
1.    This Memorandum of Understanding between the Swedish International Development
Cooperation Association (Sida) and the International Development Association (IDA) confirms the
commitment of both institutions to cooperate actively towards the sustainable development of the road
sector in Lao PDR.
2.    Over a four year period (2001-2004), the Government of Lao PDR will implement through the
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), the Sida-fmanced
Lao-Swedish Road Sector Program 2 (LSRSP2) and the first phase of the IDA-financed Road
Maintenance Program (RMP). Both operations support Government's overarching goal to alleviate
poverty by increasing production efficiency fostered by a reduction of transport costs and by increasing
population access to employment, economic and social services and markets. Both projects share similar
and complimentary development objectives.
3.     LSRSP-2 objectives are to: (i) improve the local road network through rehabilitation and
maintenance works; (ii) build management and planning capacity of the institutions dealing with the local
road network; and (iii) encourage the participation of district and villages in the management of their
road network. Originally, the project was to focus on four pilot Provinces: Oudomxay, Luang Prabang
Kammuane and Borikhamxay. RMP's objective is the sustainable preservation of the national and local
road networks through the development and implementation of financing and maintenance management
systems. This would be achieved by: (i) mobilizing and managing efficiently additional revenues
generated by a Road Maintenance Fund; (ii) maintaining the national and local roads; (iii) building the
capacity of the institutions dealing with road maintenance activities at central and local level; (iv)
reducing vehicles overloading countrywide. The first phase of the program, RMP-1, includes four
Provinces were a management system for local roads would be designed and tested. These provinces
comprise Luang Namtha, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack.
4.    In support of MCTPC's policy of "One Country - One System", and since planned capacity
building activities for the local roads undertaken under both projects are similar, the following
agreements were reached:
(a)    Road Maintenance Fund. Both organizations will support the establishment of a Road
Maintenance Fund based on the following key elements: (i)f/unding - the road users would progressively
contribute through the RMF to the costs of maintaining all roads within a 10 year period; (ii) users'
representation - road users will be represented on an advisory board that will supervise, direct and
recommend on matters related to the overall management and financing of road maintenance; (iii)
revenues - the revenues will be derived from road users charges including mainly a fuel levy, heavy
- 116-



vehicle surcharges, tolls, international transit charges and overloading fines; (iv) application - the RMF
funds will be applied in priority to emergency, routine, and periodic maintenance works; (v)
administration - the RMF will be set up as a separate account operated and managed by the advisory
board; and (vi) auditing and reporting - the accounts of the RMF shall be subject to annual technical
and financial audits to be carried out by independent auditors - reports shall be available to the public.
(b)    Capacity Buildingfor Local Roads. To avoid overlap and duplication, Sida would finance and
lead the capacity building efforts at the local road network level. Therefore, LSRSP-2 will also include
the additional Provinces under RMP-1: Luang Namtha, Savannakhet and Champassack. This will
include the preparation of an implementation plan for the local road planning and maintenance systems to
be carried out nation wide under the second phase of RMP. Sida confirmed that consultants provided
under LSRSP-2 will help DCTPCs prepare, procure and supervise periodic maintenance works carried
out in Provinces and financed under RMP.
(c)    National Roads. The Sida-fmanced consultants will not be available to support road
maintenance activities on the nationals roads.
(d)    Financial Management System. Sida will assist the development of financial management
capacity for project activities of each Province, the Disbursement Division of MCTPC Department of
Roads and the Secretariat of the Road Maintenance Fund.
(e)    Road Management System Ownership. The development of the road management system will be
carried out under the monitoring of the MCTPC-DOR Planning and Technical Division. Close
cooperation will also be fostered with MCTPC-DOR Road Administration Division.
(f)    Exchange of Documents. Terms of Reference of all consultancy service activities initiated under
both projects shall be exchanged for information and comments. Aide Memoires, supervision reports,
quarterly project progress reports and other project related information shall also be exchanged.
(g)   Joint Supervision. Upcoming mission schedules shall be exchanged to allow for possible
coordination ofjoint field supervision for both the LSRSP-2 and RMP implementation.
(h)    Strategy and Coordination Meetings. At least, two biannual meeting shall be carried out to
review projects implementation progress with the objective to foster efficient cooperation for the sole
benefit of the Government.
Christer Holtsberg, Chaig6 d'Affaires    Date
Embassy of Sweden in the Lao PDR
N                              LioPDR
L,Cutf1E         ,ao PDR   Date
1ntcratkiha1 Development Association
- 117-



H                                             -i 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Ii   |                                   e1                 1'                               g    f 
H~~~~~~~~~~~
F~
g5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \"< 
Iifi      I                                  |j      [jrrr1W 
u.I~~~~~~~~~............................................ ........... ...........  ..... .. ..... ..  ..... ............................ .... ..



IBRD 31241
[   loo                                 102'                                    104'               '                      100°            105°            11'0° 
.3  ~ ~           ~~-'~'-.-    CHINA
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CHINA                                                                                      <                                K
,<   LAO'---
L.PECOPLES          Gos
//DEM. REP..                   Of
Vientiane        \     T_kk
THAILAND   \ A
VIETNAM
MY'ANMA                                                                                         k. CA~~~~~~~~~('MEBODIA
Sa                            Sam
0  50  100  150 Kilometers                                              '    m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                  10
20 Kong       ,y
FE8RUARY 2001



