Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11747-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
HOUSING PROJECT
JUNE 9, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Leks per US$)
Years Jan.-  Sep.- Jan.-  Jun.-  Jan.-
1987- Aug.  Dec.  May  Dec.  March
1990  1991  1991  1992  1992  1993
US$1.00=   Leks   8         10     25    50    90    100
WEIGHTS AND MEASTRES
Metric System
ALBANIA: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DU            =      Dwelling Units
FY            =      Fiscal Year
GOA           =      Government of Albania
IDA           =      International Development Association
MOC           =      Ministry of Construction, Housing and
Territorial Planning
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance and Economy
NHA           =      National Housing Agency
NCB           =      National Commercial Bank
SBA           =      Savings Bank of Albania
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission carried out in February 1993
comprising Gian Carlo Guarda (Task Manager, EC2IN), Ira Lowry, Carol Rabenhorst and
Everett Post (Consultants, USAID) and Antonio Milia (Consultant, Italian Trust Fund).
Maris Mikelsons and Michael Heller (Consultants) took part in prior missions. Njeri Muhoho
helped with data processing. Yukari Tsuchiya assembled the report. EC2IN is the responsible
World Bank Division (Hans J. Apitz, Chief) in the Central Europe Department (Kenmal Dervig,
Director). Bertrand Renaud (FSD) and Robert Buckley (TWURD) acted as Peer Reviewers.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                      FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
HOUSING PROJECT
CONTENIS
Page
Credit and Project Summary                                                                 i-iii
1. 1HE HOUSING SECIOR   ................................... 1
A. Overview .1................................
B. The Housing Stock  ................................. 1
C. Trends in Housing Supply ................................  3
D. Organization of the Sector ................................  6
E. Supply Agents ................................. 8
F. Decentalization Issues  ................................    9
G. Fiscal Issues ................................                                      10
H. Financial Issues ................................                                   10
.. Real Side Issues .11
J. Legal Issues ...........................                                            11
2. SECTOR STRATEGY                       ....................... 13
A. The Challenge ................................                                      13
B. A Strategy for the Housing Sector ........................... 15
C. Elements of a Strategy ................................    16
3. THE PROJECT                           ................... 24
A. Overview ................................                                          24
B. Project Objectives and Description ........................... 24
C. Selection of Subprojects ................................  27
D. Project Costs and Financing ............................... 28
E. Project Implementation ................................    30
F. Procurement ................................                                        33
G. Disbursement ................................                                      35
H. Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring ........................ 36
I.  Accounting and Auditing ................................  36
4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS ................................                                         37
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                      ................... 43
A. Benefits ................................                                          43
B. Risks .................................44
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED ................................  45
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex A.   Legislative Achievements and Outstanding Issues
Annex B.   Unfinished Dwellings Inventory
B. 1   Overall Investment Program
B.2   Urban Households, Dwellings and Dwelling Size
B.3   Combined State and Economic Enterprise Housing
B.4  State Enterprise Housing
B.5   Economic Enterprise Housing
Annex C.   Technical Assistance Program
Annex D.   Construction Industry
D. 1  Public Construction Enterprises in 1993
D.2  Private Building Contractors in Tirana
D.3  Enterprises Offered for Privatization on January 23, 1993
Annex E.   Construction Costs Update
E. 1   State Construction Enterprise Prices (March 1993)
E.2  Private Construction Enterprises Prices (March 1993)
E.3   Construction Costs by Category of Works and
Direct Foreign Exchange Component
Annex F.    Procurement
F. 1   Indicative Procurement Packages: State Housing
F.2  Indicative Procurement Packages: Enterprise Housing
Annex G.   New NHA Charter (Decree No. 198 of May 4, 1993)
Annex H.   The National Housing Agency
H.1   NHA: Proposed Organizational Chart
H.2   NHA: Departmental Tasks Matrix
Annex I.    Affordability Analysis
1.1   Sample Household Incomes
1.2   Housing Purchase They Can Afford
Annex J.    Flnancial Model
J. 1   Assumptions for the Financial Model
J.2   Sources and Uses of Funds Tables
J.3   Notes to the Sources and Uses Tables
Annex K.   Disbursement Schedule
Annex L.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Flle



Figures 1. Albania Housing Project
2. Unfinished Building in Tirana
3. Unfinished Brick Building in Tirana
4. Unfinished Brick Building in Shkoder
5. Unfinished Brick Building in Tirana
6. Typical Floor Plan
Map:       IBRD No. 24828






Albania
Housing Project
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Albania
Executing         Ministry of Construction and Territorial Planning
Agencies:         National Housing Agency
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 4,500 individual households which will be able to
purchase flats as private property under mortgage and condominium
arrangements. Local private contractors and building material
suppliers.
Credit Amount:   SDR 10.6 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Relending Terms:  Twenty-five year mortgages at 3 percent interest rate. Principal
amount denominated in dollars with repayments in leks based on the
current rate of exchange.
Project           (i) completing and putting on the market a substantial share of the
Objectives:       unfinished rental housing;
(ii) establishing the National Housing Agency as an effective factor of
change during the transition period; and
(iii) broadening the role of private sector operators in housing supply
(investors, brokers, bankers, contractors and suppliers).
Project           (a) Completion of Unfinished Housing: The whole IDA credit
Description:      ($15 million) would be used to complete public housing projects for
which construction was interrupted due to lack of funds. Financing
would be limited to buildings which: (i) are not occupied; (ii) have
clear title which can be conveyed to purchasers; and (iii) can be sold
upon completion to individual households under condominium plans.
(b) Technical Assistance: USAID is considering a US$1.5 million
grant to finance consultants, studies and training for MOC and the
NHA. Technical assistance to MOC would help reform sector policies,
remove regulatory constraints, manage and develop new instruments
and institutions. Technical assistance to the NRA would consist of
hands-on advice for preparing and appraising subprojects, costing land
and new construction, tendering and reviewing bids for construction, as



well as for writing contracts, definig terms of sale for new units,
invoicing and collecting payments, developing banking and accounting
techniques.
Benefits          Project Benefits: By keeping sufficient cash flow in the system, the
and Risks:        IDA credit would accelerate recovery and restructuring of the housing
sector. A principal benefit of the project would be the improved
utilization of the housing stock following privatization. If privatization
is successful, a real estate market would develop, especially since rents
are liberalized on the privatized units. This should facilitate some
degree of house-trading, removing one hindrance to the mobility of
labor. Emergence of a housing market should also help mobilize
household savings, encourage private investment and provide additional
employment in construction.
Risks: One critical factor in the project's success could be the speed at
which the government, the parliament, the investors and the general
public will be able to endorse new policies, instruments and procedures
and the degree to which such innovations are accepted in practice.
Some degree of macro-economic stability and real income growth is
essential for a housing market to develop. A rational balance must be
struck between the desire of decentralization and the need of central
guidance. By the same token, any central government subsidy which
may be required to make the purchase of a home affordable needs to be
made explicit, controllable and equitable.
..



Project Costs:                                                                   US$ Million
Lod FomiE    I    e
LAnd Sites and Infrastructure      3.5      -       3.5      9
Construction (sunk costs)         14.5      -      14.5     39
Construction (incremental costs)  13.0    4.0    17.0       46
Design, Supervision, Administration  0.5   0.2      0.7      2
Technical Assistance                -       1.3     1.3      4
Base Costs (before '93prices)     31.5     5.5    37.0    100
Physical Contingencies             0.7     0.5      1.2      3
Price Contingencies                1.3     0.5      1.8      5
Total Contingencies                2.0      1.0     3.0       8
Total Costs                       33.5     6.5    40.0    108
Finndwg Pi":                                  Source                   L&o     Forcoin  ITt    Pbrct
State                              3.5      -       3.5      9
(land and infrastructure)
Ministry of Construction           15.0     -      15.0      37
(sunk investment costs)           14.5      -      14.5     36
(design, supervision, administration)    0.5  -     0.5       1
IDA (incremental investment cost)    10.0    5.0    15.0     38
NHA (incremental investment cost)    5.0    -       5.0      12
Donor Institutions                  -       1.5     1.5      4
(technical assistance)
Total Financing                   33.5    6.5    40.0    100
Estmted Dbbursement:
9A 21       2k       22
Annual                              3.0    4.75      5.50     1.75
Cumulative                          3.0    7.75    13.25    15.00
Economic Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Map:                                IBRD  No. 24828
. . 



I



Chapter 1. THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Overview
1.01 The Legacy of 'Social" Housing: Over nearly five decades, those Albanians who
live in cities grew accustomed to regard the provision of housing as a responsibility of the
State. Virtually all urban workers expected their employer (in most cases a state enterprise
or the government) to give them a flat in perpetual use against the payment of a monthly rent
equivalent to the wage earned in one or two days' work. This fringe benefit was not enjoyed
by the majority of rural workers who would instead obtain free access to farmland. In fact,
except for a small number of state-financed housing of the farm-cooperatives, the villagers
themselves built and owned their own dwellings which are in general a bit larger than those
available in the cities. The latter are small, overcrowded multistory flats with little amenities
and very poor finishes. Consistent underpricing of urban housing had the obvious
consequence of generating excess demand. Rapid demographic increase and urban growth
were concomitant factors in frustrating the public sector's sustained effort to provide rental
housing for all applicants. The results were ever growing waiting lists, enduring shortages
and very low turnover rates. These problems were aggravated by rigid rent control,
administrative allocation of living space and very poor maintenance of the buildings.
B. The Housing Stock
1.02 Albania's Housing Stock is estimated currently at 675,000 dwelling, virtually
matching the number of households recorded in the 1989 Population Census. About
290,000 dwelling are located in cities and some 385,000 in the countryside. Although this
would suggest that there are very few homeless families in Albania (Annex B, Table 2), the
census uncovers housing characteristics which are probably the worst in Central Europe.'
The average urban household lives crammed into a 30 square meters flat where four and
even six people of multiple generations are crowding into two or three rooms. One dwelling
out of three has no piped water connection and barely half of the flats have an internal W.C.
with flush-discharge. Despite the harsh winters, central heating is virtually unknown and
homes are only intermittently warmed-up by burning coal or wood in cooking stoves. Poor
insulation, lack of finishes, shoddy workmanship and a total neglect of needed repairs result
in substandard conditions and rapid obsolescence.
1/    Albania has an average 7.5 square meter of living space per capita and very poor sanitation
levels, against 15 e2 for Romania, 17 for Bulgaria, 20 for Poland and 26 for Hungary.
Dwellings with piped water are 84% in Hungary, 85% in Poland, 59% in Romania. In
Albanian cities they are 63% but only 5% in the country.



1.03 Public Housing: Seventy percent of the urban housing (202,000 DU's) are rent-
controlled dwellings owned by the State but managed at the local level by District Housing
Agencies (Banesa). Over 80 percent of this public stock (166,000 DU's) is relatively recent,
having been built in form of five/six-story walk-up apartment buildings during the last
twenty-five years. Yet, many of these dwelling are not endowed with modem amenities and
their general conditions are very poor. Nearly half of the flats (78,000) were built with the
voluntary, part-time labor of enterprise workers, who are not necessarily skilled in
construction works. This approach was favored by the past regime in the presumption that it
would reduce overall costs (nobody accounted for poor performance or interest foregone
during the protracted construction period). Economic considerations were lacking also in the
allocation of the dwellings with the result that little correlation exists today between the
actual income of the households and the characteristics of the flat they have received.2 Flats
were given out on annual leases which were renewed automatically and 'de-facto' granted
perpetual tenure, since eviction is only possible when the renter fails to pay or abuses the
dwelling. The rents are still established by central authorities according to a complex set of
rules.3 In spite of recent adjustments, the yield of housing rents falls way behind the
expenditures which would be needed for proper operation and maintenance of the stock.4 In
practice, repairs are virtually not carried out and there are no signs of maintenance on those
parts of the buildings which are held in common use (stairs, entrances, yards, roofs, facades,
etc).
1.04 Private Housing: Most of the private housing stock consists of farm-houses and is
found in rural or semi-rural settings. In term of relative endowment with amenities, rural
dwellings score poorly but they tend to be roomier and better maintained than the urban
dwellings (the average floor area is 40 rn2 instead of 30 m2). Basically they consist of small
single family detached units or one/two story row-houses which were built with traditional
techniques and local materials. In the cities, nearly one half of the 86,000 dwellings that are
privately owned dates back to the pre-socialist era. Several thousand other units were
Z/    Public housing used to be allocated to beneficiaries by local committees following 3 basic
criteria: i) loss of dwelling (e.g. because of emergencies, requisition or demolition by public
authority), ii) unsanitary living conditions; and iii) disproportionate household size (over 90%
of the applications for alternative housing fall in this category).
I/    Rent is calculated on the basis of 1 percent of the recorded (subsidized) cost of construction
plus insurance modified by several coefficients relating to the amenities, location and floor
space of the dwelling and to the building type. Rents varied very little in the past 45 years.
They were doubled in August, 1992, bringing the base rate from 0.36 to 0.72 leks per square
meter. Current estimates put the average rent in the order of 1.5 to 3.0 percent of household
income and the cost of utilities (electricity, water and telephone) in the same order of
magnitude.
4/    Originally the operating costs of the maintenance enterprises accounted for about 25% of the
rents they collected. However, the recent escalation of their current expenditures relative to
the poor yield of rents leaves less and less room for maintenance activities.
2



nationalized in 1945 and might eventually revert to their former owners in virtue of the
restitution policy currently under consideration. The past regime did not encourage the
construction of private dwellings in urban areas: less than 15,000 of those were produced
over forty-five years (1945-1990). The households which intended to erect their own
dwelling had first to obtain a location permit from the Executive Committee governing their
District, which would grant it for a specified site, only after payment of the full cost of
construction to the State Bank (or one-half when credit was given for the other-half).
Investors were issued vouchers to pay for the execution of the works by a state enterprise or
for the purchase of the necessary materials from suppliers, if constructing themselves.
Lately, households were also expected to team-up in pairs for the application because of a
government drive to build at least two flats on each parcel in order to offset the perceived
shortage of developable sites. Additional disincentives were the facts that land would remain
in public ownership and that the compensation that would be paid in case of expropriation of
a building bore little relation to its actual value.
C. Trends in Housing Supply
1.05 State Investments: For over four decades, the GOA has devoted about 1.3 percent
of GDP to subsidizing the supply of rental dwellings in the cities. This type of expenditure
accounted for more than 4 percent of gross fixed capital formation each year. Returns on
such investments were nil because the rents being charged would not even cover the
operating costs of the District Housing Agencies responsible for administration and
maintenance. Yet, providing a home to at least some of the workers on the waiting list was
viewed as a 'social' commitment which was warranted by the generalized low-wage policy.
Also, the State investment in rental housing was - and continues to be - seen as an important
source of urban employment, which has significant multiplier effects on the rest of the
economy. In fact, the complementary activities of producing building materials accounted
for more than ten percent of the total industrial output, albeit the quality of the products was
poor because of obsolete technologies and lack of competition. Housing supply peaked in
1989, a year in which both the state-owned enterprises and the private home-builders (mostly
self-help operators in rural areas) produced some 8,000 dwellings each.5 During 1990, the
output of the construction sector started to decline and fell dramatically during 1991 (only
548 public flats and 500 private dwellings were produced) coming to a virtual halt in 1992.
1.06 Unfuiished Housing: Due to the lack of funds, works had to be interrupted on an
estimated 13,300 dwellings which were under construction in urban areas (Annex B). Half
E/    Ihe average annual production in the 1981-1990 decade was about 14,700 DU's of which
7,900 were financed by the state (3,300 for enterprise workers) and 6,800 by the private
sector. During the whole decade only 2,470 privately financed dwellings where built in cities
or towns (an average of 250 per year).
3



of these unfinished units are located in the country's six largest citiese and show various
degrees of completion (the average is 46%). About 7,450 of the unfinished dwellings were
being built by economic enterprises and are promised to their own workers who are
continuing a trickle of voluntary work on the sites. The other 5,850 units were built instead
by the State and have no pre-assigned occupants.7 The average stage of completion on this
part of the unfinished stock is higher (57%) and the quality of workmanship somewhat
better. However, some flats in the more advanced buildings have been invaded by squatters
or have been occupied by people who ranked high in the waiting lists. Before construction
work can be resumed on those buildings one would have to relocate the present occupants.
1.07 Council of Ministers' Decree No. 46: Of the 13,300 unfinished dwellings, 1,000
have been requisitioned by the Army for its own dependents. This left 12,300 units, which
the Council of Ministers divided into three categories with its decree of January 29, 1993: i)
constructions nearly completed (an undefined number of dwellings, possibly 500, which
were not severed out from the following group); ii) constructions relatively advanced (8630
DU's); and iii) constructions barely started (3,670 DU's). The decree ruled that budgetary
funds should be used to complete those dwellings that are nearly finished and mostly
occupied by squatters or have been pre-assigned to enterprise workers or other beneficiaries.
The relatively advanced buildings initiated by economic enterprises (comprising 4,900 DU's)
would be offered to those enterprises or to their workers who should complete them with
their own resources. If they are not accepted by May 29, 1993 (about half entail
considerable investments), those buildings should be handed over to the respective
Municipalities. The remainder (7,400 DU's) is to be completed by the newly established
National Housing Agency (NHA) with credits obtained from the banking system, external
borrowing and with the proceeds of the privatization process (Annex B, Table 1).
1.08 Building Types: Public housing in the cities has generally taken the shape of
multistory apartment blocks (up to 6 stories and exceptionally even 8) which generally
consist of 20 to 50 flats grouped by two, three or four flats around each staircase landing.
The layout of apartments corresponds to prototype designs prepared by the National Institute
of Studies and Projects (para. 1.15 and Figure 6) with the purported aim of producing the
The geographical distribution of the unfinished flats by district is shown in Annex B (Tables
2,3,4 and 5). Almost all districts have some unfinished State housing. However, enterprise
housing are found in only 26 of the 36 districts.
2/    Old waiting lists exist with each district housing agencies also for this category of dwellings
but their validity is arguable once it is decided that the State can no longer afford to invest in
housing unless the beneficiaries are willing and able to pay for its cost.
4



greatest number of dwellings within a given budget.! It has been pointed out that the
structure of the Albanian household is not adequately accommodated in the existing urban
stock because of the preponderance of very small units (7 percent have no separate bedroom,
58 percent one bedroom, 30 percent two bedrooms and only 5 percent three bedrooms).
This may explain the generalized demand for larger dwellings and the recent (1989) increase
in the official floor area standard for all apartments types.' The flats have usually very
elementary equipment with bathrooms offering one lavabo, one shower space and a slab-type
W.C, while kitchens are only furnished with a sink. Electrical installations consists of one
lamp socket and one outlet per room. Heating is limited to the provision of the flue for a
living-room stove, around which the family huddles up in the winter months.
Table 1: Government Housing Standards, 1977 - 1988
Household Size         2-3 People          4-5 People          6-8 People
APTMNT SIZE         LVGRM + 1 BDRM    LVGRM + 2 BDRM    LVGRM + 3 BDRM
M2         %        M2       %         M2         %
Uable Floor Area (Net)    46.7       72.7     61.7     75.5       71.7      76.9
Stain, Walls etc.         17.5       27.3     19.5     24.5       21.5      23I
Built Up Area (Gross)     64.2      100.0     81.7    100.0       93.2     100.0
Design Efficiency Ratio               1.37              1.32                 1.29
Living Room: 18-19 ml2;  Cooking Area: 5 - 6 m2;  Bath: 2.8 - 3.4 m 2;  Bedrooms: 12 - 13 n2 each;
Corridor/Entry Hall: 5.0 - 7.0 m2;  Storage: 1.5 - 2.5 m2;  Laundry: 3.6 - 4.2 m2;  Balcony: 1.0 ai2.
A mnximum variation of + S e2 for each flat was tolerated. These standards were upgraded by about 10% in 1989.
1.09 Building Techniques: The vast majority of dwellings in urban areas are built with
bricks (6 x 12 x 25cm) which is the most economical method in Albania. External walls,
carrying the floor slabs, are 25 to 50 cm thick, depending on the number of stories.
Partition walls are 8 to 12 cm thick. Floor slabs are in pre-cast reinforced concrete 11 to 16
cm thick and 4 to 6 m long. A boundary beam, cast in site, provides stiffness to the floor.
In earthquake areas, bearing brick walls are strengthened by reinforced concrete columns at
the corners which join together the vertical and the horizontal components. Staircases are
made of pre-cast components in reinforced concrete. Roofing is normally achieved with clay
or terrace tiles. Windows and doors are usually made of wood but elementary metal sashes
E/    In reality, the design efficiency of these layouts is sometimes questionable because a lot of
floor area is unnecessarily wasted in form of entrance halls, corridors and other residual
spaces.
2/    The 1989 Census shows that 67 percent of the urban dwellings have less than 35 m2, only 26
percent are large enough to have a separate bedroom (35 - 50 m2) and no more than 7 percent
are larger than 50 m2. By contrast, 31 percent of the urban households have 5 or more
members, and 10 percent comprise 3 or more generations.
5



are also found. Floors are generally finished in cement tiles or vinyl and internal walls in
plaster. Exterior plastering is often deferred indefinitely with poor insulation results. A
small share of the housing stock (5 percent) was built since 1979 using prefabricated
concrete panels from a plant in Tirana. This plant, a gift of the Government of China, has
the capacity to produce 1,000 to 1,500 dwelling units per year and serves the capital city and
other towns along the railroad line. Albanian architects argue that this relatively rigid system
is ill-adapted to the needs of the extended family structure because of the limited range of flat
sizes that can be produced with it. In rural areas, traditional building techniques and local
materials have been used and still are being used. Most houses are relatively small
structures with hip-roofs and walls made of stones, bricks, cinder-blocks or adobe. Roofing
is made with slate or wood shingles in the mountain areas and with clay-tiles elsewhere.
D. Organization of the Sector
1.10 The Ministry of Construction and Territorial Planning (MOC) is the institution
which is responsible for overseeing: (i) all budget-financed construction activities (including
housing), (ii) the provision of public services (water supply, sewerage, garbage collection,
and other community facilities) and iii) the control of land development over the national
territory. MOC supervises the activities of 49 enterprises which implement construction
projects across the country, 35 others which produce construction materials (paras. 1.16 and
1.17 below) and 26 District Housing Agencies (para. 1.03) which manage locally the rental
housing stock. Besides, the Ministry controls a Studies and Projects Institute, which used to
dictate technical standards and prepare projects for the specialized construction enterprises
operating in various sectors and a Town and Regional Planning Institute which prepares
district and city plans, zoning regulations and norms for ecological conservation.'0
1.11 The Structure of MOC: Presently, the Ministry is being re-organized in order to
adapt its structure to the changing demands of an economy in rapid transition. MOC
employs recently about 120 people, 96 of which hold a professional degree. This staff is
grouped into 6 Directorates, and 4 specialized Sections:
IQ/   There are a few exceptions, such as irrigation and drainage works which are under the control
of the Ministry of Agriculture, mineral extraction works which depend on the Ministry of
Mining and road pavement works, which have been recently placed under the control of the
Ministry of Transportation.
6



Construction Directorate  ........ .  .   . 17   Employees
Territorial Planning Directorate ..... ..... 7   Employees
Housing Directorate .......     .......... 6   Employees
Public Services Directorate .....  ....... 15   Employees
Economy and Procurement Directorate ..... 18   Employees
Finance and Privatization Directorate ...... 11   Employees
Foreign Relations Section ......   ........ 6   Employees
Legal Section  ..................... 5   Employees
Design Section .................... 5   Employees
Personnel and Administration Section  ..... 30   Employees
1.12 The Housing Directorate has managed the budget funds for housing construction up
to very recently, supervising the building enterprises specialized in housing projects and the
district agencies responsible for management of the public stock. The role of this Directorate
is bound to change following the privatization of home ownership and home construction. In
collaboration with other project institutions, it will draw up a strategy for the housing sector,
compile new housing norms, and draft new laws on real estate tenure.
1.13 The National Housing Agency has been created by MOC in the assumption that
house-building will no longer be financed from the public investment budget. In order to
start new projects, the NHA would have to find the necessary financial resources (some from
domestic credit institutions, some from external agencies and some from local governments).
According to its existing charter, the NHA would carry-out feasibility studies, prepare plans
to meet effective demand, obtain building sites (taldng into account the relevant town
planning restrictions), put up projects to tender, supervise their execution, sell the units, and
use the proceeds to finance more houses. The agency has enterprise status and reports to
the Ministry (para. 4.03). Currently, it employs about 60 people, but most of them are in
the field. No more than half of a dozen professionals are working in the central office.
1.14 The Construction Directorate oversees all construction and building material
enterprises, which may be contracted by other ministries or public authorities for investment
projects under their own jurisdiction. For instance, in the case of a national road, the
investor would be the Ministry of Transport, and for a local road, the local government.
Similarly the investor for a hydroelectric dam is likely to be the Ministry of Industry, Mines
and Energy who would contract the implementation directly to the specialist enterprise of the
Ministry of Construction. Norms, design and technical supervision would be carried out by
the relevant Directorate of the Studies and Projects Institute, which is also under MOC
control.
1.15 The Studies and Projects Institute includes at present several branches: i) Social
Projects (housing, schools and hospitals); ii) Roads, Bridges, and Railways Projects; iii)
Hydroelectric and Water Projects; iv) Industrial Projects (design of plants for ore processing,
coal treatment, chemical and fertilizer production); v) Research and Construction Technology
7



Projects; and vi) Town Planning. The Ministry intends to privatize the Studies and Projects
Institutes. The Institute Managers are actively pursuing contracts and commissions from
other entities and from the private sector, but the circumstances of the economy leave little
hope that the sizable staff of the Institutes can be fully retained in the future.
E. Supply Agents
1.16 Building Materials Enterprises: There exist 35 enterprises which produce building
materials under the supervision of the Ministry of Construction. These include 4 cement
plants, 19 brick enterprises, 1 ceramic plant and the already mentioned factory of precast
concrete panels. In general, these plants were built two or three decades ago and their
machinery and equipment are outmoded. For example, the four cement plants are 30 years
old and would need updated technology to increase productivity. Five years ago, Albania
used to export more cement and to import less construction inputs than it needs to now.
Given the current decline in domestic output, any resumption of construction activities at a
significant scale will entail imports (especially steel, pipes, glass, ceramics, fixtures and
machinery). Twenty-five of these state-owned enterprises have been offered for privatization
on January 23, 1993 (Annex D, Table 3).
1.17 Public Construction Enterprises: Each of the 26 traditional administrative districts
of Albania had its own construction enterprise." There are also enterprises which operate
in more than one district and others which operate country-wide because they are specialized
in particular technologies (e.g. the prefabricated panels plant) or construction subsectors
(railroads, ports, dams, and bridges). During the 1980's, the public construction enterprises
supervised by MOC averaged an annual output of the order of $100 million. Because of the
sharp decline of state investments, the increasing shortage of domestic inputs and the lack of
foreign exchange for imports, these enterprises are now experiencing serious difficulties and
their losses must be covered by the State budget. During the 1980-1990 decade, the pressure
to retain a redundant labor force caused a progressive loss of productive efficiency of
enterprises. The average effective wage per unit of output rose by 25 percent in spite of the
relatively moderate growth of nominal wages (construction wages are only slightly above
those of manufacturing). Employment in the State construction enterprises totalled 52,000
workers in 1991 (about 6% of State employment), including 23,000 directly involved in
construction, 21,000 providing construction inputs and 8,000 performing other construction
related tasks (Annex D, Table 1). The MOC has been trying to privatize two dozens of
these construction enterprises since January 1993.
.X/ The number of administrative districts has been increased recently to 36 basically by severing
out portions of existing ones. See Map IBRD No. 24828 after page 46.
8



1.18 Private Construction Firms: Presently about 70 construction firms have been
registered as private enterprises. Apart from the joint ventures with foreign contractors
(which are mainly engaged in commercial building) several independent domestic contractors
have emerged since the bureaucratic control on the allocation of building inputs was
eliminated. While most of these firms are very new and quite small, about a dozen have
already significant size (Annex D, Table 2). The cost advantage of private contractors rests
mainly in the lower overhead and greater adaptability of their enterprises. Should
construction and mortgage finance become available, these new firms should be able to
compete successfully with the state enterprises, if they are given a chance to bid for housing
jobs, and if the contracts are sliced and packaged at a scale suitable for small operators. If
this is done, private contractors could absorb some of the labor released by state enterprises.
F. Decentralization Issues
1.19 New Municipal Powers and Responsibilities: The law on the organization and
functioning of local governments was adopted by the Albanian Parliament on June 10, 1992.
This act transferred a variety of activities from central state control to decentralized local
government control. MOC remains the ministry responsible for establishing the legal
parameters and general policies for housing and land development and local infrastructure
service, but its budgetary support is likely to be reduced even further. The new local
Councils will be responsible for administering municipal property, collecting taxes and user
charges, approving a budget, adopting local development programs, regulating housing,
implementing town planning, and encouraging privatization and free-market competition.
However, most municipalities still lack sufficient budget revenues and investment capital to
extend the existing networks of infrastructure and public services over new and old housing
estates. The low level of urbanization (only six municipalities contain urban agglomerations
of more than 50,000 people,12 is not conducive to significant yields of the typical local taxes
(real estate, motor vehicles or urban services). As a result the new municipalities would
need to become more self-reliant and more efficient in their use of limited resources,
developing realistic action plans and investment strategies that place increasing emphasis on
the participation of private capital and the recovery of social costs.
1.20    Public Service Enterprises in the Albanian context include the activities of
storekeepers, craftsmen, personal service workers, caterers, repairmen etc, which come
under the supervision of the Public Service Directorate of MOC. The Directorate is now
actively engaged in their privatization. So far the Directorate has been able to privatize
about 75 percent of the enterprises, most of them the smaller units. However, the newly-
privatized enterprise often experience difficulties because they can no longer rely on the
Ministry for the supply of equipment and raw materials which they cannot always obtain on
the open market, which is not operating effectively. Besides, service enterprises were
22/   The six largest cities are Tirana (250,000), Durres (85,000), Elbasan (82,000), Shkoder
(80,000) Vlore (72,000) and Korce (65,000).
9



usually sold to their own workers, who were prohibited from changing activities for two
years. Now the Government is trying to sell by auction the remaining 25 percent consisting
of larger enterprises. There are about 35 to 40 enterprises left, employing about 3,000
people.
1.21 Local Utility Enterprises: Water supply, waste water collection and treatment, urban
transport, etc. fall under the jurisdiction of the MOC's Vice Ministry of Communal
Enterprises which is responsible to ensure that water supply and treatment are taken into
account when new housing projects are undertaken. Collection of urban solid wastes is
mostly a local responsibility which would need to be fully reorganized, because disposal sites
are not always well located or properly managed.
G. Fscal Issues
1.22 The Subsidy Issue: Up to now the State has paid completely for the construction of
public housing. Although the beneficiaries pay some rent, the amount is only nominal and is
totally used up in providing whatever little maintenance can be paid with it. The difference
between the rents actually paid by the resident households and those which should be charged
if the invested capital were to be remunerated at full opportunity cost constitutes a most
important subsidy to the existing stock which goes unmeasured. Traditionally, subsidies have
been financed through an implicit tax, which kept the wage of all workers uniformly low.
However, the corresponding benefits accrued only to those households who actually became
residents of public rental housing. Except for a few members of farm-cooperatives, rural
dwellers did not enjoy housing subsidies. Among the beneficiaries, those obtaining larger
dwellings received also the greatest implicit bonus. Finally, the net benefit of what they
received depended also on the building's physical conditions, available amenities and relative
location, all factors which, in a market system, would be adequately reflected in the level of
rent being charged.
H. Financial Lssues
1.23 Past Housing Funance: In 1990, some form of housing finance was established for
individual investors, reviving the right of private dwelling ownership which had been
repressed in Albanian cities since 1972. Individuals could borrow from the National
Commercial Bank of Albania up to fifty percent of the money they needed to acquire or
construct a house for their own residence. Relatively few of such loans were made, financed
out of the budget and repayable over 5 years at a fixed rate of interest of 3 percent. More
popular were the loans for housing additions or improvements which were available for terms
of 15 years at 1 percent interest with no downpayment required. In both cases, the bank
reserved the right of repossession if an investor failed to make monthly payments. However,
these low interest loans were made unaffordable by the steep rise in domestic interest rates
which occurred in 1991/92. The outstanding credits continue to be paid at the prior - by
10



now highly negative - amortization rate, while macro inflation has rapidly eroded the value
of principal and rendered this portfolio practically insignificant.'3
I. Real Side Issues
1.24 Production Constraints: Serious problems need to be addressed also on the real
side. The domestic supply of building materials is dwindling because of the collapse of
many state enterprises and the general conditions of the economy. Most industries would
need modernization, new machinery and more efficient methods of production, but this calls
for fresh investment. Importing building materials or machinery from abroad requires
precious foreign exchange and tends to drive prices up to international levels all too rapidly.
The domestic construction rurms are newly formed and need time to gain experience, skills
and organization. They need to improve construction management, cost estimates, cost
control and procurement practices. The technology of construction should be improved too,
allowing for a greater number of options and a diversity of housing types and design
solutions. It is also important to revise the current, over-restrictive practices of land
allocation, zoning, development control and construction licensing, all of which are matters
that should be left increasingly to the discretion of local authorities. In addition, sufficient
sites for residential development should be earmarked in which the needed services and
infrastructure are already available or can be provided at a reasonable cost. Excessive
rationing of urban land, high building standards and similar requirements raise unnecessarily
investment and transaction costs for the private developer and ultimately result in additional
pressure for budgetary subsidies.
J. Legal Issues
1.25 Needed Legislation: The transition from a centrally directed system of housing
supply to one that is demand- and market-driven requires several innovations in the legal
system. The rights of perpetual tenancy must be converted into fixed-term contractual
agreements, protecting the interest of both owners and renters. Restrictions on the exchange
of housing units and their sale price must be removed as well as any limitations to the rights
of home ownership. Shared ownership of apartment complexes must be regulated by the
new condominium law. Rent control legislation will be gradually phased out, beginning with
I1/   The Housing Privatization Law (Art. 15) remitted the first 15,000 leks on all unpaid credits of
lesser value than 20,000 leks which had been taken out before June 30, 1991 'for the
improvement of housing conditions." Some 13,000 families did benefit of this waiver. The
corresponding payments to the Bank for Agriculture and Development (Lek 110 million) and
to the National Commercial Bank of Albania (Lek 55 million) would be made from the State
budget through the NHA.
11



privatized or newly constructed units. A rent allowance system might become necessary to
shield the needy from undue hardship. New legislation is also necessary to address issues
facing the local governments in the areas of land use planning, investment permits and
provision of serviced residential land. Finally, new legislation will be needed to set up
procedures for competitive procurement of goods and services in those investment projects
which bear a contribution from the central or the local government (para. 3.16).
12



CHAP1iER 2. SECTOR STRATEGY
A. The Challenge
2.01 The Implications of Economic Reform: The democratic government elected in
March 1992 inherited an economy in total disarray. The only feasible option was to
undertake a radical program of reforms aimed at stabilizing conditions while laying the
foundations for economic recovery in the medium term. At the end of August 1992 the
GOA reached agreement with the IMF for a stand-by arrangement based on the following
key policies: i) reducing the budget deficit; ii) limiting nominal wage increases, iii)
liberalizing prices; iv) approximating real positive values of interest rates; v) curbing the
expansion of domestic credit; vi) liberalizing external trade and currency exchange; and vii)
commercializing and privatizing the state enterprises. For the housing sector, these general
policy guidelines implied the total rejection of a traditional system of production which was
centrally planned and supply driven in favor of one that should become market-based and
largely private. Such conversion is by no means easy and should be guided by a
comprehensive strategy of housing reform as outlined below.
2.02 Reducing Budget Subsidies: State supported housing investment should be
discontinued. In fact, all construction activities were halted on public housing which was in
progress and no new investment program was undertaken. Obviously, this caused a sudden
drop in the activity of the State construction enterprises and of the industries of building
materials. It also caused great dissatisfaction among potential home recipients and among
construction workers who were idled or are fearful of losing their jobs. An additional effect
was a cascade of inter-enterprise arrears because resources to finance purchases or imports
were no longer available from the banking system. Even more important, the Government
began to question the use of scarce budget resources for housing subsidies, and to redefine
the role of the Ministry of Construction from that of principal investor to one of mere
coordinator and facilitator of sector activities.
2.03 Limiting Nominal Wage Increases: The decline of domestic output calls for a re-
alignment of real wages. As a result, almost all workers in the budgetary institutions earn
presently less than the minimum standard of living."4 Only in the non-budgetary enterprise
1A/   The minimum standard of living was estimated in August 1992 at 2483 leks per month (about
25 dollars) for a family of four (two children). This includes expenditures for food, rent,
energy, heating and water supply, soap, gasoline and medicines. Persons receiving social
assistance get on average 1,155 leks per month, while the dependents of budgetary institutions
get 2,170 leks and those of non-budgetary enterprises 2,490 leks. In the private sector,
13



(where remunerations can vary with the economic situation of the enterprises) can the
average worker's wage match the minimum standard of living. To these two groups of
fixed-wage earners which experience hardship one must add the pensioners, all those who
lost their jobs because of economic reforms, the ex-political prisoners, the recently-graduated
and unemployed students, and the soldiers released from military service since 1991, all of
whom receive social assistance amounting to far less then the minimum living standard. This
means that a large percentage of city residents can barely afford to subsist on their income,
let alone to save towards the purchase of a home. It is only in the private sector that the
wages of unskilled workers may reach above the minimum standard of living and even
considerably above that level for the more qualified workers. Thus, one immediate
consequence of the stabilization effort has been to accentuate discrepancies in the incomes of
different social groups and implicitly to exclude many households from access to the housing
market.
2.04 Liberalizing Prices: While real wages are in fact declining, the cost of housing is
moving up because the prices of construction inputs and services have escalated as soon as
controls were removed along with production subsidies. Price increases have been steeper
than the rise of CPI which in January 1993 had already reached 734 percent from a base of
100 in December 1990. According to several sources, construction costs underwent a tenfold
increase over the same time period. Among the factors affecting this increase are the
abolition of former subsidies on the production of construction inputs, the shortage of
materials and spare parts requiring foreign exchange, and the vast differential between
intemational and domestic prices. Other contributing factors are the lack of a proper
monitoring and information system concerning prices in the sector, the greed of contractors,
or simply their disorientation vis-a-vis a rapidly evolving situation."5 Finally, the very
officials of the Ministry of Construction (who carry on a supply-minded tradition) have
contributed themselves to price escalation by quoting uncritically the contractors claims as
accepted truths.
2.05 Adjusting Interest Rates: The general policy should be to approximate real positive
values also for housing credit. When one considers the fact that the resources of the
financial system are basically short-term deposits (not very suitable for long term housing
finance) this policy rules out the continuation of the previous, highly concessionary terms
which granted fixed rates of 1 to 3 percent to individual investors (para. 1.23). It also rules
out, in principle, any concessionary loan to the construction enterprises.
unskilled workers are paid 2,000 to 4,000 leks and the more qualified employees up to 6,000
leks per month.
.j/   Apart from the imported item, which are obviously sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations, it
is difficult to see why the prices of all domestic inputs should be escalating so rapidly in a
period of contracted demand, in particular the cost of labor during a period of high
unemployment. The direct foreign exchange component in residential construction has been
estimated at about 18% of total cost in February 1993 (Annex E, Table 3).
14



2.06 Rationing Domestic Credit: In order to curtail monetary expansion, strict ceilings
were imposed to the overall credit of the Commercial Bank and the Savings Bank. The same
National Bank which is under pressure to lend to state enterprises is trying to keep its
lending within the agreed ceiling. As a result, the construction sector enterprises can no
longer borrow sufficient funds to finance their operations and even less to undertake
modernization investments."'
2.07  Liberalizing External Trade and Currency Exchange: The liberalization of
external trade and the free convertibility of the currency mean that now one can import from
abroad those construction inputs that the domestic market does not supply in sufficient
quantity, quality or timeliness. As noted above, the immediate consequence is a tendency to
dollarize construction cost estimates, inflating also the costs of factors which are not
remunerated in dollars. In theory, the price differential between domestic and foreign
products should allow a sufficient margin to support modernization and improvement of
domestic suppliers. In practice this process should be driven by an expansion of housing
investment that is slow to materialize.
2.08 Privatizing and Commercializing State Enterprises: Some outright purchase of
construction enterprises has already occurred; negotiations for the privatization of several
others are in process (para. 2.11). All this is happening in the expectation of a building
drive that only foreign capital inflows could support. At present some small scale
investments are taking place, financed on a cash basis by private savings and remittances
from expatriate Albanians. However, the privatization of large concerns, (such as the
prefabricated panel factory or the cement plants) is not imminent.
B. A Strategy for the Housing Sector
2.09 The Need for a Coherent Strategy: The collapse of the activities of the construction
enterprises, the persisting shortage of housing and the decline of real wages are in strident
contrast with the high rates of urban unemployment, the visible overhang of unfinished flats
and the recent hikes in rent and utilities charges. These contradictions may unleash popular
pressures for a renewed policy of public housing subsidies, which would clash with the
adjustment process in several ways: it could accelerate inflation by breaking through agreed
budgetary and credit ceilings; it could absorb fiscal resources otherwise needed to restructure
16/   Nonetheless, on February 9, 1993 the National Commercial Bank of Albania made a loan of 1
billion Leks to the National Housing Agency in order to continue some work on part of the
13,000 unfinished dwellings in urban areas. The Ministry of Finance agreed to pay the
interest on this loan, as it had done already on a previous loan of 300 million Lelu granted to
the NHA for the same purpose by the Savings Bank of Albania on December 5, 1992. (See
Annex J.3, II A and B for details).
15



the economy; it could keep households tied to administratively allocated dwellings whereas
one should facilitate the mobility of labor. One immediate challenge of the govenment is to
provide the housing sector with sufficient liquidity to resume a minimum level of activity,
and to refrain from introducing interest rate distortions in a financial system that is still
infant. In this respect, external aid can play a critical role. It is all important, however, that
the supply of additional funds for housing be based on a well coordinated strategy of sector
transformation.
2.10 Intersectoral Coordination: The process of restructuring the housing sector is
strictly linked to reforms in other areas of the economy. It may be accelerated or delayed by
the progress of those reforms. In fact: i) the state enterprises cannot be privatized and
transformed into entrepreneurial and competitive agents of supply, unless some stabilization
is achieved in effective demand and general output; ii) public housing cannot privatized and
the housing market cannot develop without the security of clear ownership and foreclosure
rights; iii) housing rent and land development policies cannot be improved without effective
collaboration between the central and local governments; iv) one cannot mobilize and use
long term resources for housing unless sound monetary and credit policies are in place; and
v) an efficient housing finance system cannot be developed without prior improvement of
banking skills and practices.
C. Elements of a Strategy
2. 11 Ihe Privatization of Construction Enterprises was initiated in November 1992 and
is now in process of implementation. At the end of December, MOC had already privatized
five of the 45 enterprises under its jurisdiction (four building materials plants and one
construction enterprise) and had finalized joint ventures with foreign investors for other nine
enterprises, while active negotiations were underway for ten more. The preference in the
construction sector is for privatizing the whole company at once, leaving to the new owners
the problems of restructuring and the associated social issues. However, there have been
cases in which the managing boards of the enterprises have taken action themselves by re-
arranging their functional organization and separating out those departments that can be more
easily privatized. There are three different patterns of privatization: a) sale by auction (with
some preference being given to Albanian bidders); b) sale by direct negotiation (usually
with foreign companies or joint ventures); and c) sale by shares (enabling legislation has not
yet been enacted). In the case of enterprises producing building materials (such as cement or
bricks) MOC has reached agreements on foreign joint ventures, with the understanding that
in the future, the investor Ministries will put up purchase contracts for competitive tender,
leaving the State enterprises to their own fate if they are not successful."7
7/   Completed joint ventures include the Muhor marble quarry and three construction companies
in Durres and Tirana. Ten other joint ventures are under negotiations, including cement
plants with Italian and Bulgarian interests, brick kilns, plaster and concrete block production
as well as construction companies. See Annex D, Table 3.
16



2.12 Privatizatlon of Public Housing: The Housing Privatization Act, approved
December 23, 1992, was designed to appeal to the present occupants of state-owned rental
housing, to facilitate rapid and simple acquisition of title, to minimize the required outlay for
the household and to accomplish the operation without substantial demands on the national
treasury.1 The basic purposes of the law are: (i) to improve housing maintenance by
transferring decisions on repairs to the owners/occupants; (ii) to improve utilization of the
housing stock by enabling owners and renters to move freely between dwellings by paying
their full costs; (iii) to create a market for new dwellings, by allowing new owners to cash-in
the acquired equity and to use it as partial payment for new homes; and (iv) to enable private
individuals and enterprises to provide and manage housing, relieving the government of these
responsibilities. In order to achieve these objectives, a number of decisions had to be made:
(i) a claim to state-owned housing was granted to all present occupants who choose to
become owners, either for free (in the case of small or old flats) or for a nominal payment of
the excess space above a minimum standard; (ii) various incentives were offered to promote
the change in tenure (low purchase price, unconditional right to sell or rent dwellings,
exemption from rent control, joint control of operation and maintenance); (iii) the
condominium form of tenure was adopted for all privatized flats; (iv) multi-unit buildings
would be managed through self-elected governing boards after privatization; and (v) the
privatization process would be terminated within a date set by the decision of the Council of
Ministers.1' A digest of the final resolutions is presented in Annex A, which summarizes
legislative progress up to the end of February, 1993.
2.13 Managing the Housing Stock after Privatization. The Housing Privatization Act
has been passed by Parliament, but no one can predict how fast its implementation will
proceed nor what share of the total public housing stock will be successfully privatized. At
present, state-owned buildings are managed by District Housing Agencies appointed by the
Department of Housing. When such buildings will be privatized as condominia, the
corresponding governing boards will assess the monthly fees to be paid for each apartment,
whether privately or state-owned. The condominium board would also appoint a manager,
who could be a full-time employee but could also be a private management company that
II/   The draft law prepared by MOC Housing Directorate was revised and redrafted with the
assistance of an IDA/USAID mission. Mr. Ira Lowry (Consultant) played the principal role
in providing such advice.
12/   As approved by Parliament the law exempts from payment the tenants of apartments with just
one room and a kitchen which have been built before the end of 1970 as well as the tenants of
apartments with two rooms and a kitchen which have been built before the end of 1965.
Minimal payments are requested for all other flats, i.e. those with one room and a kitchen
should pay a maximum of 20,000 leks and those with three rooms and a kitchen up to 40,000
leks. The homeless, the former politically prosecuted and the martyrs' families will receive
the house free of charge. A rough estimate according to these rules implies that of the about
200,000 flats offered for privatization, at least 50,000 flats will be given without payment.
17



serves many buildings under separate contracts. In any case operation and maintenance
policies would be made by the condominium board and carried out by an appointed manager.
The assumption is that the State, as residual owner of several apartments in a building block,
would pay the corresponding condominium fees and recoup these expenditures from rents
charged to the tenants. Buildings that remain totally in public ownership will have to
continue to be managed by the District Housing Agencies, although the State as owner could
also contract operation and maintenance to private management companies.'
2.14 De-Controlling Rents: No privatization scheme can work without rent-reform. To
begin with, rent control has been abolished on all units being privatized in order to offer
some incentive for private ownership. This action might start already some turnover of
dwelling units, as residents that are under-or over-housed should be induced to trade their
flats for other homes that better fit their needs, budget and desires. On buildings that remain
in state property the rents should be progressively raised to a level that cover the pro-rated
share of building operation and maintenance costs. It is important also to index rents so as
to factor-in the cost of inflation.
2.15 Rent-Voucher Schemes: The adoption of an aggressive policy of rent de-control
would call for simultaneous increases in real wages, which are inappropriate in the current
circumstances of the economy. On the other hand, increasing rents sharply in an
environment of real wage decline involves high social risks because a large proportion of the
population may be unable to meet the required payments. This suggests the parallel
development of a scheme of financial assistance for those households or individuals, who
cannot afford the rent increases. One possible scheme could be to finance the distribution of
rent vouchers by local authorities in order to complement the contributions that poor tenants
can afford to make (e.g. pensioners, unemployed, invalids, etc). However, it would be
important to coordinate this with other forms of social assistance based on a means test.
2.16 Financing Housing Purchase: Given the unfavorable proportion between the cost of
housing and the current income of the average household, some long term repayment scheme
must be introduced to make the purchase of a home affordable. The privatization program
itself includes a scheme of deferred payment allowing the owners to use the property as a
collateral security (mortgage credit). The beneficiaries of the privatization program are also
allowed to liquidate the interest acquired in the home they occupy and to use it as equity
payment for a new, larger home. Given the primitive condition of the Albanian financial
system, and the volatile level of inflation, such repayment schemes should be denominated in
foreign currency, carrying an interest rate sufficient to cover the transaction costs of the
lender. One should avoid introducing distortions in the domestic interest rate. In those cases
ZQI   As the district housing agencies should eventually be taken over by the municipalities, the
break up of these agencies into smaller, private companies should be encouraged as a way to
reduce the maintenance burden on the local budgets. Altogether, these agencies employ 6,000
workers.
18



in which some form of subsidy may be socially desirable and justified, such subsidy should
be made explicit in the budget and well insulated from the credit operations.
2.17 Reducing Fiscal Subsidies to the Housing Sector: If successful, the privatization of
a good share of the public housing stock and the progressive adjustment of rents on the
remainder could reduce substantially the current subsidies to the sector. Other savings
should come from the privatization of State construction enterprises, the losses of which had
to be covered by the budget. Finally, the adjustment of interest rates and the strict rationing
of concessionary credit would also free resources for alternative uses. The total halt imposed
on new housing investment activities by the State may be tempered by a certain activity of
completion of those unfinished dwellings in which part of the investment capital has been
sunk already. The recommended transition strategy is to start with charging homebuyers
only the cost of incremental investments, and move only later into a stage in which the full
prices of new housing starts can be charged as the economy stabilizes and popular acceptance
is gradually gained of the idea that homes must be paid for. Eventually, one can expect that
the private sector may take over the function of principal supplier when adequate credit for
housing construction and mortgages becomes available. The role of the State would then
shift to that of facilitator and coordinator of sector activity, while the main actors would
become the households themselves, the bankers, the developers, the contractors and the
suppliers of building materials.
2.18 Institutional Reform: The above suggests that the role of the traditional sector
authorities (the Ministry of Construction, its Institutes and Enterprises as well as the District
Housing Agencies) would be substantially modified. Substantial savings should be achievable
in payroll and overhead costs, if the State enterprises are privatized, the District Housing
Agencies are greatly reduced and decentralized at local level and MOC responsibilities
evolve into mere guidance and monitoring of a large number of sector operators. Such
transition requires careful study, and the elaboration of a schedule of new activities and
suitable personnel. Staff re-deployment, requalification and training should support the new
institutional perspective.
2.19 Legal Refonn: Last but not least, the substantial progress already made in
developing a new regulatory framework for the housing sector must be consolidated. In
most cases the basic legislation has been introduced but some bylaws and procedural
guidelines are still lacking. Establishment of the National Housing Agency took place with
the original Decree No. 431 of the Council of Ministers on December 10, 1992 which has
been recently amended by Decree No. 198 of May 4, 1993. New laws were passed on the
Privatization of State Housing (Law No. 7491 of December 23, 1993 later complemented
by Council of Ministers Decisions No. 1, 46, 48 and 49, all dated December 29, 1993) and
on Condominium Property (Law No. 7683 of March 17, 1993) completed by the Decree
No. 214 of May 10, 1993, establishing 'Procedures for the Creation of Condominia and
Transfer of Privatized State Housing to Private Households and Municipalities. A law on
Restitution of Expropriated Properties has been adopted in April 15, 1993. One of the
main outstanding issues include the definition of public purpose as a basis for expropriation
19



and of clear foreclosure rules to support a viable system of housing finance. Also, in view
of the fact that most real property transactions are to be ruled by civil law, there is the need
to strengthen the judiciary and to provide adequate procedures of appeal and Independent
review. The large scale transfers of state assets to local governments require development of
Land and Mortgage Registries and Notarial Offices along the line suggested by USAID
consultants. A Procurement Act is also under preparation, which should set out the ground
rules for competitive bidding on publicly financed works. A certain measure of
decentralization was envisaged in the Local Government Law (June 10, 1992) which
transferred considerable authority over urban development matters to the new local councils,
but it still remains to be defined what services should be provided by the local governments
and what sort of fiscal autonomy they will enjoy in paying or levying charges for them. ITe
draft Land Use Law has not been approved yet but is needed to better define the powers and
authorities concemed with territorial and urban land use planning and zoning regulation, with
the occupation of land for construction, with the issuance of building and demolition licenses,
as well as with guidelines for environmental protection and pollution control especially in
coastal, tourist and vacation areas.
20



Table 2: ALBANIA - MATRIX OF HOUSING SECTOR REPORM POLICIES
Area/Isue                    Recaet                 Immediate              Over the              Medium Trm                 Ultimae Goal
of Interest              Policy Measures           Next Steps             Next Year               (Five Year.)              (Long Term)
1. Institutional Reforn        Innsitutional Changes    Design Overail        Break Up Insitutions    Reorganize All Sctor      Housing Produdion
Iniaiated in the Sector  Reorganization        into New Directoatc    Specific Insiutions       No Longer a Public Sector
Based on New Desip                               Obligation
National Housing        Detail New Role of                            Shift MOC role to
Agency created by MOC   Existing Inditutions   Recruit Management     RegulationlEnforeement    Responsibilities of Cental
Advisors               Monitoring of Codracts    and Local Govrunents are
Autonomy Granted to     Redeploy                                                                Ckar.
Local Governments       Redundant Staff        Continue               Trnsfer Howing/Land
On-tho-job Taining     Use Regulations to
Trin Staff for New                           Local Governmnt
Functions
-      2.  Property Rights/Legal       New LAws Drafted         Issue Bylaws to       Detail Guidctines and    Develop Land and        Private Ownerhip
Reform                     * Privatization (passd)    Complenat New       Bylaws                  Mortgag Registries       is Prevalent.
* Condominium (psssed)  Legislatin
* Rcstitution (drafted)                       Regulate with Civil     Expand Role of            Prperty Rights a  Ckearly
* Rent Reform (begun)    Rederme Public        law Contrcts AD        Notary Offices            Defined and Well
Interest for Eminent    RentalOwnership                                Protected.
Location Pennib         Domain Prcedures       Transactions           Develop Markets for
Abolished                                                             Private Rental and Home    Ownem and Tenants Rights
Intduce Civil Law     Introduce Systematic   Puchae                    are Wenl Balanecd.
Contmets for Renter    Property Regis on
Strcngthen App1
Introduce Laws for     Pecedures of Judiciary
EvctionForeecloure     Review
3. Rat Reform                  Doubled in August '92,    Design Process to:   Raie Rent               Chre Ra  Covering         Raes Reflect
Rem  are Still Lagging  *   Do-Control Rails  on PubLic Housing       Pull OkM Cos              Market Demand
Behind Inflation,           on Public                                                                                          0
Rents on Private            Howing.                                   Use Rat - Voued for    Subsidies ae Resricted
Dwellings were          *  Didribute Rat                              Low Income Famili         to the Very Poor.
Decontroiled.               Vouchens 



Table 2: ALBANIA - MATRIX OF HOUSING SECTOR REFORM POLICIES
Area/Issue                    Recent                Immediate              Over the               Medium Term               Ultimate Goal
of Interest              Policy Measures            Next Steps            Next Year               (Five Years)              (Long Term)
4.  Privatization of            Privatization and        Create Local          Stan Privatization     Privatize Most of the     Minimum Ownership of
Public Housing             Condominium Laws         Committees to                                 Public Housing Stock      Public Housing
Approved by Parliament   Handle Privatization    Give Priority to
Sitting Tenanis        Develop Listing and       Efficient Brokerage of
Outline Regulation                           Information Service for   Market Transactions
and Procedures        Write Laws for         Exchange of Units
Brokerage Services
5.  Maintenance and             District Housing         Adjust Rental         Contributc State Share   Introduce Competilion   Management of Public
Management of Public       Agencies Municipalized    Payments to Cover     of O&M Charges in      Allowing Private Firms to   Stock is Mostly Private
Housing                    but Revenues do not      Operation and          Mixed Public/Private   Carry-Out O&M
Cover O&M Costs          Maintenance           Condominia
6.  Financial Policy            Intention Stated to      Secure Term           Compicle Unfinished    Begin Charging Full Price   Housing Investment
Create Two-Tier          Rcpayment Schemes    Flats Charging Only     on New Housing Starts     Attractive to Private
to.)                                   Banking System           with Mortgages        Incremental Costs                                Capital
Choose a Suitable
Credit Ceilings          Denominate Housing    Combine Mortgage       Mortgage Instrument for    Market-Determined
Established              Loans in              Loans with Seller's    Volatile Circumstances    Lending and Borrowing
Foreign Currency      Finanec to Offset High                           Rates
Interest Rates Adjusted                        Price/income Ratios    Growing Portfolio Reurns
to Reflect Inflation     Provide Technical                            of National Housing       An Efficient Housing
Assistance to National  Use Concessionary    Agency                    Finance System is in Place.
Housing Fund          External Credit while                            Based on Private Banks
Developing Internal
Resources
7.  Fiscal Policy               Drastic Budget Cuts in   Remove Budget and     Make Sure Remaining    Target Any Residual       The Role of Government is
Housing Sector           In-Kind Subsidies to    Subsidies are Up-front,  Subsidy to Well Identified   Reduced to Coordination
Housing Production    Explicit and Budgeted.   Deserving Beneficiaries  and Monitoring of Sector
oq
09
I1



Table 2: ALBANIA - MATRIX OP HOUSING SECTOR REORRM POUCIES
A/Iuea                        Reoi                 Imnmediate             Over the              Medium Term               Ultimna  Goal
of Intere                Policy Msuu              Next Stqe               Ncxt Year             (Fivc Ycars)               (Long Term)
S. Privatiaion of the          Resriction Liled on     Privatize Several      Reduce SubsWdice to    Phae Out Dirod           Most Contacton Nd
Constnuction Iuktry        Purcas and Sale of      Publio Eerpise        Builder, and Supplien    Subsdies to StWe        Supplien are Privae
Produc  and Services                                                  erapris
Fnalize               Adopt cad Apply                                 Construction Management,
Areas or Produt         Joint Ventures        Procurment Law         Podter Gwth of Smalu    Pricing nd Cost Control
Monopolies Abohed                                                   and Mdium Size Frms        Methods are Improved
Restjwtu              Start Compeitive Bid.
Price. nd N mpos        Enterprise            on Major Public        Use Conmtivc Bids on    Open Copepdition Keep.
Liealized                                     Works Contracts        All Major Public Works    Condnction Pries Under
Drft New                                     Contrcts                 Chock.
Procuement Law
9. Land Develpment and         New Land Planning Act   Shift Land Use         Encourage Design and   Rcvise Curent Mastr      Sufficient Land is Zoned to
Infrastuctu  Plnning       Prepared by MOC         Control to Locl       Planning Innovations   Plan, Zoning nd           Meet Demand for Housing
Authoriie,           to Diversify Supply of   Subdivisin Regulations as  Develpment
Municipaiies to Contol                        Housing                Needed
Urban Devevpment and   Streamline Land Use                                                     Developer. Provide the
Providc Infasuur        Regulations           Limit Madser Plan      Municipalkies Assume      Secondary Infrustructure
Role to Location of   Rcspnibility for          Charging its Cosb within
Denify Dcvelpmaet   Primary InfrAuctute  Infrasrctue Provision       Price of Dweliings 
Whee Infrastructure,   by the PubLic Seor                                                           w
Urban Services Are                                                                                  o
Easily Available                                                                                   01h



Chapter 3. TEIE PROJECT
A. Overview
3.01   Background: In the fall of 1992, the govemment of Albania expressed interest in
receiving World Bank Group assistance to restructure the housing sector consistent with its
ongoing program of economic reform. A brief project identification mission took place in
October 1992 and the initial EPS was written soon thereafter. Upon the mission's
suggestion, the Minister of Construction requested technical assistance from the USAID
Department of Housing and Urban Development Programs, which helped mobilize a joint
mission during November 1992. The Italian Government Trust Fund contributed the services
of an architect-consultant. Appraisal of the project took place in February 1993 and was
conducted in strict cooperation by the former parties. The present report condenses the
experience of the joint missions.
3.02   Policy Contributions: Beyond the immediate task of designing a feasible lending
operation, the appraisal team endeavored to advise the GOA and particularly the MOC on
how to move towards a market-based housing system. A major achievement in this respect
has been the Parliament adoption of two new laws, the Housing Privatization Act and the
Condominium Act, which were drafted upon the mission's advice to support the process of
divestiture of the public housing stock. Technical advice was offered also in drafting a
restitution law and in the elaboration of an overall strategy for the sector (Chapter II).
3.03 Negotiations: Prior to negotiations, the Borrower had prepared the following
documents which were reviewed and agreed upon by IDA (para. 6.01): a) an Investment
Program; b) a Program of Technical Assistance and Training; c) a new Charter for the
National Housing Agency; and d) NHA proposed procedures for competitive procurement of
civil works. Negotiations of the Housing Project Loan took place in Washington during May
10-14, 1993. The Albanian Delegation was led by His Excellency Ilir Manushi, Minister of
Construction and Territorial Planning.
B. Project Objectlves and Description
3.04   The Main Purpose of the Project is to support Albania's first steps towards
development of a housing system which would eventually be based on the response of private
supply to effective market demand. In this respect, the following objectives of the proposed
project represent a major break with past policies:
24



(a)  to complete construction of a substantial share of the unfinished public housing
flats and put them on the market;
(b)  to secure long term repayment of the flats with a mortgage collateral;
(c)  to trade-in smaller, privatized dwellings against the purchase of larger flats;
(d)  to establish the National Housing Agency as an effective agent of reform; and
(e)  to broaden the role of private sector operators in housing supply (investors,
developers, contractors, suppliers, bankers, brokers).
3.05  Project Description: The project would partally finance the completion of housing
projects initiated by the Ministry of Construction and the execution of a comprehensive
program of technical assistance for housing policy formulation and institutional development.
Under the terms of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement the National Housing Agency would
contract builders to complete some 4,500 unfinished flats and sell them to individual
households under mortgage and condominium arrangements. The Ministry of Construction,
which has already invested about one half of the total construction cost of those units, has
also covered the initial administrative expenditures of the NHA from its own yearly
budget.21 The technical assistance program should help build up a firmer institutional base
and provide the expertise required to address the needs of housing sector reform. It would
be provided on a grant basis to the MOC and the NHA in order to develop suitable operating
capacities and assist private initiatives.
3.06 Project Components: The project would include two main components:
(a) Completion of Unfinished Housing: The whole amount of the IDA credit
(US$15 million) would be used by the National Housing Agency on short-term
construction contracts to complete buildings in which the construction process
had been interrupted (Annex B). Works would be contracted out on a
competitive basis in small packages so as to attract private contractors. Once
the buildings are completed, NHA would develop condominium plans and
offer dwelling units for purchase by individual households as private property.
The flats would be put up for sale at an average price no lower than the
prorated cost of the NHA investments (para. 4.07 b). The NHA would
perform certain financial services, extending credit on agreed terms and would
retain a mortgage lien on the property corresponding to the loaned principal
amount. Such lien would not be removed before repayment to NHA has been
2i/   ZIhe equivalent of US$50,000 was allocated in the 1993 budget for this purpoe.
25



completed. IDA financing would be limited to buildings and apartments which
meet certain eligibility criteria (para. 3.08).
(b)   Technical Asslstance: A substantial injection of technical assistance is
required to establish a policy framework for the efficient utilization of sector
resources, to remove regulatory constraints and to develop new instruments
and institutions. Bilateral grant funds are expected in the order of US$1.5
million, to finance consultants, studies, and training programs on new pracices
and procedures for NHA and MOC staff. Many new initiatives will call for
hands-on expertise: the management of the privatization process, the setting of
prices and rents, the design of targeted allowance schemes, the procedures for
costing land and new construction. Operational advice is also indispensable to
establish the National Housing Agency: condominia must be organized,
financing terms must be defined for the sale of housing units, private
households procedures must be outlined for invoicing and collecting payments,
banking and accounting techniques must be improved. Technical assistance is
also needed to help introduce procurement procedures, construction
management, maintenance and repair programs for the existing stock, and for
evaluating projects, carrying out market analyses, estimating construction
costs. A program of activities under this component is presented in Annex C.
3.07 Project Scope: The project would consist in the completion and sale to private
parties of a substantial share of the flats left unfinished by the state construction enterprises
as well as a part of those likely to be relinquished by the economic enterprises and their
workers (paras. 1.06 and 1.07). This assumes a replacement cost of $133 per m2 of net
aleable area (Annex E) and an average floor area of about 75 m2 per flat.2 Since the
average state of advance of buildings in which construction has been halted was of about 54
percent, more than half of the average $10,000 cost of each apartment has been sunk-in
already (Annex B. 1). The incremental investment needed to bring a flat to completion can
be estimated to be on the order of $4,500 (varying between $2,500 and $6,500). The size of
the IDA ciedit has been determined on the basis of the expected sale of about 1,500 flats per
year, which is only a fraction of the traditional annual production of 6,000 units in Albanian
cities. Additional details on the proposed investment program are given in Annex B. The
Technical Assistance component has been estimated at about $1.5 million (about 100 man
months over a 3 year period) and should be financed on a grant basis mainly by USAID with
the possible contribution of other donors.
Dl    The gross floor area of apartments has been averaged separately for the unfinished apartments
started by State construction enterprises and for those started by the economic enterprises on
the basis of the specific mix of apartment sizes available (Annex B, Table 2). In both cases
the average is of 75 m2.
26



C. Selection of Subprojects
3.08 Eligibility Criteria would be adopted to determine which construction contracts could
be financed under the Project. Such criteria have been tested in the selection of subprojects
for the first months of NHA operation, and were agreed to during negotiations (para. 6.01
a). It is recommended that:
(a)  individual construction contracts should be no larger than 48 dwelling units;'
(b)  the expected construction schedule should be no longer than 12 months;
(c)  local zoning and building regulations should be fully complied with, as
certified by a valid building permit;
(d)   adequate standards should be implemented for sanitation, water supply, energy
conservation and environmental protection;
(e)  the buildings should have adequate access to existing public services and
community facilities;
(f)   contract award should be based on competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA;
(g)   construction contracts should be limited to buildings in which all flats are
expected to be sold to private households under condominium arrangements
soon after completion of works;
(h)  the flats should not be presently occupied or pre-assigned;
(i)   ownership title should be clear and the flats should not be subject to
restitution;
(j)  the flats to be completed should be no larger than 75 m2 of net usable floor
area, or 100 m2 gross built up area;
3.09 Environmental Impact: No adverse environmental impact is expected from the
proposed project. On the contrary, the project would help eliminate from Albanian cities the
nuisance of abandoned building sites where mounds of accumulated debris encourage garbage
dumping and represent a source of dust and an impediment to storm drainage and pedestrian
circulation. In appraising subprojects, the NHA would take care that sound construction and
2X/   This corresponds to a six-story building block including two stairwells and four apartments on
each landing, or two procurement packages (Annex F.2).
27



town planning regulations are observed and that adequate sanitation and energy conservation
standards are implemented. Furthermore, eligible subprojects should be located on sites
which afford adequate access to public services and community facilities to the future
inhabitants. The proposed project has been reviewed and placed in environmental category
'C' consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A.
D. Project Cost and Fbnancing
3.10  Total Project Costs which amount to US $40 mjilion equivalene are shown in
Table 3.1. The value of the serviced land sites on which the buildings are erected has been
estimated at about 10 percent of the total investment costs. On average, 54 percent of the
estimated total cost of the buildings to be completed has been invested already by the
State.' The proposed IDA credit would finance most of the incremental investment needed
to complete construction. The agreed financial plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2 on
page 29.
Table 3.1: Project Costs
USS Million
Lscal    Foreign     Total      Percent
Land sites and inrfrastructure           3.5        -         3.5          9
Construction (sunk costs)               14.5        -        14.5        39
Construction (incremental costs)        13.0       4.0       17.0        46
Design, supervision, administration      0.5       0.2        0.7          2
Technical assistance                     -         1.3        1.3          4
Base costs (Feb. 93 prices)           31.5        5.5      37.0        100
Physical contingencies                   0.7       0.5        1.2          3
Price contingencies                      1.3       0.5        1.8          5
Total contingencies                    2.0        1.0       3.0          8
Total Costs                         33.5        6.5      40.0        108
W4/   Applicable local taxes are included and will be financed out of counterpart funds.
2=/   The sunk costs in each unfinished building have been calculated by MOC staff on the basis of
the recorded past expenditures. Sunk costs have been converted into US dollar equivalent
according to the exchange rates applicable at the time expenditures were made. Tables 2, 3,
4 and 5 in Annex B offer the detailed breakdown of sunk costs separately and jointly for State
and enterprise housing subprojects according to their location.
28



3.11 The Incremental Construction Costs shown in Table 3.1 were estimated on
the basis of the experience of construction enterprises and private contractors presently
operating in Albania (Annex E). All estimates are presented in US dollar equivalents
to minimize distortions from fluctuating inflation and exchange rates. Local costs are
expressed in dollars at the official rate of exchange which prevailed at the end of
February 1993 (US$1.00 = Leks 100). A uniform 10 percent allowance for physical
increase has been made over the base costs of the construction component. Price
contingencies have been calculated, assuming the following rates of international dollar
inflation: 1993, 1.3%; 1994, 1.2%, 1995, 2.4%, 1996, 3.2%, 1997 and onwards
3.3%.
Table 3.2: Project Financing
US$ Million
Sources                Lcal   Foreign       Total     Percent
State authorities                      3.5       -         3.5         9
(land and infrastructure)
Ministry of Construction              15.0       -        15.0        37
(sunk investment costs)               14.5       -        14.5        36
(design, supervision, administration)  0.5       -         0.5         1
]DA                                   10.0       5.0      15.0"       38
(incremental investment costs)
NHA                                    5.0       -         5*0b       12
(incremental investment costs)
Donor Institutions                     -         1.5       1.5         4
(technical assistance)
Total Financing                    33.5       6.5      40.0       100
al    The $20 million incremental investment should be sufficient to finance completion of
about 4,500 dwelling units at US$4,500 each.
b/   Financed through the earmarked proceeds of the privatization process.
29



E. Project Implementation
3.12 Concerned Institutions: The Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territorial
Planning will supervise NHA fulfillment of the loan obligations and implement the project on
behalf of the Government. Its Department of Housing would be overseeing the operation in
terms of consistency with general sector policies. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be
channeled into the National Housing Agency, a new institution which will deal directly with
contractors and home buyers (para. 4.03). The local governments would also play a
subsidiary role, regulating land use, construction activities and infrastructure provision for
the buildings and supporting private sector activities in their jurisdictions.
3.13 Subsidiary Loan Agreement: The proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Borrower's
contributions would be made available to the NHA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and the NHA on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para. 6.02 b). The Agreement will include provisions to the effect that subloans to the
home buyers would be denominated in dollars (para. 6.01 b) and that the NHA would carry
the debt service on the IDA credit (6.01 f) and for any other debt contracted to support its
activities (6.01j). The Subsidiary Loan Agreement should also regulate the terms and
conditions for the transfer of State assets and conveyance to the condominium association
representing the home buyers (unfinished buildings, building sites and associated
infrastructure) (para. 6.01 j).
3.14 Operational Manual: A Draft Operational Manual would be prepared by the
Borrower with the help of consultants. This Manual would be reviewed and agreed to by
IDA (paras. 6.01 c). The document should detail the policies, procedures and institutional
arrangements for the implementation of the project, setting out official guidelines for the
NHA, the contractors and the home buyers. The proposed Manual would consist of the
following main sections:
(a)   Overview of the NHA (objectives, policies and institutional arrangements)
(b)   Financial Management (responsibilities of the Borrower, the NHA, and the
buyers)
(c)   Selection and Appraisal of Subprojects
(d)   Procurement Procedures
30



(e)   Construction Supervision Guidelines
(f)   Condominium Plan Guidelines
(g)   Consumer Service Guidelines (repayment terms, mortgage guarantees)
(h)   Asset Management
The main text of the Operational Manual would be accompanied by relevant annexes,
including sample contracts, credit applications, sample procurement documents, disbursement
and monitoring forms. Adoption of the Operational Manual would be a condition for
effectiveness of the IDA credit (para. 6.01 c).2'
3.15 Technical Assistance: Annex C presents in detail the proposed program of Technical
Assistance. Expert advice and hands-on operational support would be provided to:
(a)  the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territorial Panning
The Ministry will need assistance in promoting change in the existing
regulatory framework for housing development and in guiding the local
authorities in the revision of norms concerning land use zoning, land leasing,
site selection, development permits, design specifications, tenders and contracts
for civil works, supervision of construction, marketing of finished dwellings
and re-allocation of existing ones. The Ministry is now engaged in managing
the process of privatization and changing the laws governing housing rental and
management.
(b)   The National Housing Agency: The newly created NHA will need assistance
in several areas:
(i)   preparing and appraising subprojects.
(ii) monitoring costs of land and construction.
(iii) tendering and reviewing contractors' proposals.
(iv) writing contracts.
2W1   The key elements of the Operational Manual have been already included in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and in the Project Agreement and have been confirmed during negotiations.
USAID consultants will assist the Borrower in producing a complete draft of the Manual for
review by IDA within the next few months.
31



(v)   supervising construction progress.
(vi)  organizing condomima.
(vii)  defining sale terms for the completed units.
(viii) assessing the value to be discounted on trade-in flats.
(ix)  invoicing and collecting payments and credit administration.
(x)   improving accounting and financial management.
(xi)  designing and managing an adequate information system to monitor
NHA activities and forecast its each flow.
(xii)  defining practices for internal auditing, accounts control and servicing.
Since mortgage banking is a new business in Albania and little experience is
available to draw on, the appointed NHA manager and his staff should be
supported by seasoned expatriate experts in various fields of operation.
(c)   Local Authoritles: Albania's current decentralization policy calls for
development of new institutional and managerial skills at the subnational level.
Training courses would be organized for municipal staff and local developers
in the six principal cities with participants drawn from the surrounding towns.
The seminars should impart the basic elements of:
(i)   the preparation and appraisal of housing projects;
(ii)  the management of the remaining public housing stock; and
(iii)  town planning, zoning and subdivision regulations, land development
and construction permits.
32



F. Procurement
3.16 Pending Procurement Legislation: In Albania there is little tradition of competitive
procurement of civil works, especially for housing construction, which used to be contracted
directly to specialized state enterprises under MOC financing and supervision. New laws and
regulations concerning procurement procedures are still at a preliminary discussion stage. In
due course, the draft legislation would be reviewed by IDA specialists to ensure that the
proposed local procedures are acceptable to IDA. The findings of that review would be
discussed with the Albanian authorities and agreement would be sought in this regard. For
the time being, the mission supplied procurement guidelines and sample documents
(invitations to quote, instructions to bidders and contract conditions) to orient the borrower in
the use of IDA procurement procedures.' Based upon the standard bidding documents for
small works, the Borrower prepared procurement guidelines for works of leser value. The
finalized guidelines would be incorporated in NHA Operational Manual, the adoption of
which would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. Tables 1 and 2 in Annex F
give an indicative breakdown of procurement packages. It must be emphasized that the value
of contract packages shown in the two Tables has been calculated on the basis of the average
cost of completion of a block of 20 dwellings (one stairwell only). Obviously the cost of
such packages is going to be much higher in buildings with a level of completion below
average or with more than one stairwell. As one can infer from those tables, one can expect
between 120 and 240 different contracts, i.e. an average of sixty contracts per year. The
proposed procurement method for different components is summarized in Table 3.16 below.
3.17 Civil Work Contracts of Lesser Value: While more sophisticated procurement
procedures would be developed over time, IDA obtained assurances during negotiations that
the NHA would follow the above mentioned guidelines for comparative price quotations in
the award of civil works contracts or for the purchase of goods and services of lesser value
han US$250,000 equivalent. At least three separate price quotations should be obtained and
the contract would be awarded to the lowest evaluated price. The Borrower would retain the
relevant documentation for IDA staff review. Because one purpose of this operation is to
support the development of contractors of limited capacity and experience (Annex D.2), it is
expected that most of the works would be sliced and packaged at a scale that affords
participation of relatively small scale contractors in competition with the larger and more
organized joint ventures and the traditional public building enterprises. To ascertain that
acceptable procedures are being used, IDA will review ex-ante the first three procurement
documents in this category.
WI   The sample documents supplied to the Borrower are the World Bank publication Sampl
Bidding Documents - Smaller Works" as issued in September 1992. This publication had
been prepared for application on civil works contracts of less than about USS 10 million
equivalent.
33



3.18 Civil Work Contracts of Greater Value: For procurement contracts of greater value
than US$250,000 equivalent the technical staff of the NHA would supervise the application
of local competitive bidding procedures using the Bank's standard bidding documents for
smaller works. To be acceptable to IDA these procedures should incorporate the following
features:
(a)    a bidding document be issued;
(b)    adequate competition be encouraged to obtain a reasonable price;
(c)    all bidders be informed in advance on procedures and criteria for bid
evaluation and contract award;
(d)    such procedures be not arbitrarily applied;
(e) interested foreign fiuss be allowed to participate, and
(f)    state construction enterprises must meet all bidding and contractual conditions
set for the private sector bidders.
Table 3.16: Proposed Procurement Arrangem
US$ Million
Project Component                                      Procuremet  Metdod
ICB     LCB    Othdr    Not IDA      Total
Financd      Cost
1. Works
1.1 Land sita and infrasuctur                  -      -        -           3.5        3.5
(0.0)      (0-0)
1.2 Construction (sunk costs)                  -      -        -          14.5       14.5
(0.0)      (0-0)
1.3 Constrcton (incremental costs)             -     3.0      12.0*        5.0       20.0
(3.0)    (12.0)     (0.0)      (15.0)
2. Conultacies
2.1 Design, supervision, administrtion         -      -        -           0.5        0.5
(0.0)      (0-0)
2.2 Technical asistance                        -      -        -           1.5        1.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                                            3.0      12.0       25.0        40.0
(3.0)   (12.0)      (0.0)      (15.0)
Note: Figures in brackets show avmts financed by IDA
*      Other procurement methods: local shopping ($10 Million) and direct contrcting ($2.0 Million)
34



IDA will review ex-ante all procurement documents regarding contract awards of more than
$600,000, including bid invitations, evaluation reports and contracts. All other procurement
documents will be reviewed ex-post.
3.19 Very Small Contracts. Due to the difficulty of awarding some of the smallest
contracts on a competitive basis, especially when these small contracts are located in remote
areas, where it would be difficult to obtain expressions of interest from outside contractors
for works of very limited amounts, it was agreed to allow for the award of individual
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less, at reasonable
competitive prices arrived at after direct negotiations, up to a maximum aggregate amount of
$2 million.
3.20   Technical Assistance Services would be contracted from individuals or consulting
firms in accordance with the procurement practices of the sponsoring agencies or the IDA
guidelines, if so indicated by the donor.2" Terms of reference drafted by the donor agencies
would have to be approved by the Borrower in consultation with IDA. At least one expert
position should be used to provide NHA with procurement advice.
G. Disbursement
3.21 For the Construction Component, IDA disbursements would depend on work
progress and would be based on full documentation of expenditures only for civil works
contracts of greater value than $250,000 million equivalent. For all other contracts of lesser
amount, Statements of Expenditures (SOE's) would be submitted by the Borrower,
identifying the type, location, size and unit costs corresponding to each contract as well as
the percentage of progress payments and the corresponding rates. IDA will reimburse a
constant 75 percent share of the expenditures made by the NHA against eligible contracts
according to the lek/dollar parity prevailing at the time such expenditures were made by
NHA.29 Technical Assistance Funds would be disbursed in conformity with the policies of
the donor institutions.
2Xa/ In the latter eventuality the Borrower should apply the Guidelines on the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency of August 1981.
22/   Since identifying the tax element in individual invoices is not feasible, the 75 percent share of
expenditures has been set at a level that excludes any customs duties or taxes levied on goods,
works or services which are not eligible expenditures. (O.D. 12.00 para. 20. a).
35



3.22 A Special Account would be established at the National Bank of Albania in order to
expedite the execution of the project. The account would be opened with a deposit of
US$1.5 million (10% of the IDA credit) which represents the estimated maximum
requirement of a four month period. The Borrower would withdraw the Lek equivalent of
the eligible expenditures made under the project according to the exchange rate in effect at
the time such expenditures were made. IDA would replenish the Special Account upon
submission of withdrawal documents by the Borrower. The anticipated disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex K.
H. Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring
3.23 The NHA would be responsible for supervising the execution of subprojects which are
expected to be carried out by several dozens of separate contractors. NHA staff would visit
periodically the subproject sites, review the progress of construction and authorize
corresponding disbursements. If needed, technical assistance would be supplied to NHA from
the project's consultants also in this respect. IDA's staff commitment for supervision of this
project is not expected to exceed the normal allocation time and should be in the order of 2-3
missions per year. The NHA would continuously monitor the progress of the project and its
impact according to a program satisfactory to IDA and would regularly forward reports to
IDA covering progress made during the last semester and provisional investment programs
during the next semester.
1. Accounting and Auditing
3.24 The NHA would keep separate accounts in respect of the activities financed under the
Project, the Special Account and the activities of the Agency as a whole. The NHA accounts
would be audited annually by a firm of independent public accountants acceptable to IDA and
the audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(Para. 6.01 e). The auditor's opinion would include certification that the IDA credit funds
have been used for the project work identified and that the underlying files and documents
support the disbursement requests made through the Statements of Expenditures. The
Borrower would retain all required documents to support the SOE's and the disbursement
applications and would keep a record of all expenditures for review by the auditors and IDA
supervision missions.
36



Chapter 4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
4.01 The Albanian Flnancial Sector needs to be developed from scratch, because financial
intermediation was virtually unknown under the communist regime. Reform of the financial
system is the object of a parallel IDA project now under preparation which will pursue the
separation of commercial and central banking activities, the strengthening of the legal and
institutional aspects of banking, the introduction of international accounting and auditing
practices and the restructuring of a large stock of bad debt. Meanwhile, some elementary
measures of financial prudence have been adopted (bank-specific credit ceilings and regulated
interest rates) which are compatible with the level of skills of the banking personnel presently
available and with the macroeconomic uncertainties characterizing the stabilization period.
For the purposes of the housing project, it would be unrealistic to expect the existing banks
to develop overnight a system of housing finance especially considering the volatile situation
of the economy and the likely fluctuations of the interest rate. None of the banks have such
a business plan, nor a firm understanding of the products and services they would need to
offer if they were to undertake housing finance. For some time to come, housing finance is
bound to depend on forms of directed credit because no financial market exists as yet.
4.02 Counterpart Flnancing for the project would come mostly from the public sector in
form of the transfer of a stock of unfinished buildings into which substantial capital has been
sunk already by the central government, and of the corresponding land and infrastructure
which will be deeded to private condominia, as they are formed.' Substantial local
resources should derive from the proceeds of the privatization of the existing stock of public
rental housing which Art. 24 of Law 7652 has credited to the account of the NHA (revenues
may fluctuate between US $6 and 13 millions, depending on the chosen mode of payment
and the applicable interest rate). Additional contributions will come from the home buyers,
either in form of cash downpayments or of trading-in flats they already owned or have
acquired through privatization (para. 4.08). Domestic contributions would be complemented
with the proceeds of the IDA credit which shall be used exclusively to cover expenditures for
additional civil works, materials and equipment needed to complete the dwelling units for
sale (para. 6.01 g).
4.03 The National Housing Agency was established by resolution of the Council of
Ministers (no 431 of December 10, 1992) as an entity with independent juridical status (as an
enterprise) under the trustship of the Ministry of Construction. Its objectives were broadly
defined and include:
3Q/   The actual transfer of these assets from the ownership of the State to that of the condominia
might take some time. For the time being, land and infrastructure will remain in State
property just like the unfinished building sitting on them. The actual procedures involved
have been set out quite recently by the Council of Ministers' decree No. 214 of May 10, 1993
on 'Procedures for the Creation of Condominia and the Transfer of Privatized State Housing
to Private Individuals and Municipalities'.
37



(a)   financing the construction of housing;
(b)   monitoring and classifying housing needs;
(c)   obtaining projects and sites through the cooperation of the local authorities;
(d)   contracting construction projects to enterprises through competitive bidding;
(e)   supervising the technical implementation of projects;
(f)   managing and maintaining rental properties;
(g)   selling housing in compliance with corresponding legislation;
(h)   commissioning housing studies, design standards and prototype plans;
(i)   proposing minimum space standards for the population; and
(j)   issuing directives and guidelines for its dependent offices.
4.04 Start Up Capital: The NHA was established with a capital of 5 million leks drawn
from the Reserve Fund of the Council of Ministers. Decree No. 46 of January 1993
assigned to NHA the task to complete and sell semifinished buildings in which the State has
already invested the equivalent of US $22 million.31 The land and infrastructure
investments corresponding to the building sites can be estimated at about US $3.5 million,
and can be considered as an additional contribution from the State (para. 6.01 j). However,
since the NHA is expected to charge its clients only for its incremental construction
expenditures and not for the sunk costs or the land, these assets represent wash-out items and
do not necessarily appear in NHA balance sheet.
4.05  NHA Source of Future Income: These could be: (i) budget contributions or other
assets transferred from the central government; (ii) budget contributions or other assets
transferred from the local governments; (iii) donations from individuals or social and state
organizations; (iv) revenues from the sale of NHA-produced housing; (v) revenues from
NHA real estate investments; and (vi) loans obtained from credit institutions or the securities
market. The NHA would be responsible for repaying also any other debt contracted to
support its activities (pan. 6.01 j).
4.06 NHA Management and Staffing: The Charter of the NHA has been re-drafted by
consultants to the Ministry of Construction, detailing the internal organization for the first
five years of operation, the terms and conditions for the sale of apartments, and specific
guidelines for the Agency's operation (Annex G). The NHA is expected to employ a
permanent staff of 10 - 15 professionals, besides office support staff. The NHA would also
receive substantial operational assistance under the project's TA component. The New
Charter, approved by the Council of Ministers with Resolution No. 198 of May 4, 1993,
envisages the following structure:
fl/   About 2.2 billion Leks (equivalent to 22 million dollar at the now prevailing exchange rate)
had been invested by the State at the end of 1991 in 4,866 unfinished flats. Their average
state of completion was assessed at 49 percent, which implies that over 20 million dollar
equivalent would be required to complete the whole stock. This calculation excludes some
7,300 other flats which were under construction with voluntary labor by economic enterprises
for which another 44 million dollars might be needed (Annex B).
38



(a)   a Board of Directors composed of seven members, (including representatives of
the three Ministries of Construction, Finance and Social Assistance) who elect
their own Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
(b) a General Manager elected by NHA Board of Directors for a six years term
whose powers and responsibilities will be detailed in the Charter and Bylaws of
the Agency, which are subject to the approval of the Minister of Construction.
(c)   five Departments (Finance and Administration, Operations, Planning and
Budgeting, Marketing and Legal) (Annex H. 1). An indicative matrix of the
main tasks corresponding to each department is given in Annex H.2.
4.07 Sales Terms and Conditions: Housing built with NHA financing will remain in the
ownership of the State until sold or leased by NHA according to terms and criteria defined
by the Council of Ministers. The administration and use of the dwellings are to be made in
accordance with the new condominium law'. Dwellings completed with NHA financing
would be given in ownership to purchasing households (para. 6.01 d).
(a) Collateral:         As long as the purchase price is not fully paid up, the
NHA would retain on the property a mortgage lien which
correspond in amount to the debt outstanding.
(b) Sale Price:         Should be set at a level sufficient to recover a
proportional share of all costs already sunk in the units
to be completed under the project plus the incremental
expenditures incurred for completion of the buildings and
the prorated value of the sites (para. 6.01 b)
(c) Upfront Waivers:    Fifty percent of the price is waived on the sale of each
dwelling unit (this should add up to the total costs
already sunk in all units.) Similarly, the NHA assessed
value of any flat traded-in by purchasers would be
waived from the sale price of the new flat.'
3I/  Tbis law, drafted with the assistance of Carol Rabenhorst ([JSAID Consultant) was approved
by the Parliament on March 17, 1993 and represents an indispensable complement to the
Housing Privatization Act of December 1992.
I/   The trade-in value of an existing flat will be assessed by NHA personnel taking into
consideration the same basic criteria applied during the privatization procedure. These are:
a) the age of the building; b) the number of rooms in the units; and c) the category (quality)
and location of the building. In any case a ceiling has been set for the maximum trade-in
value corresponding to 75% of the replacement value of a one-bedroom flat (see Annex I).
39



(d) Closing costs:     NHA transaction costs would be covered by a 2 percent
(one time) fee levied on the loan amount. This fee can
be capitalized.
(e) Currency:          The sale price would be denominated in US dollars; the
monthly payments would be invoiced in leks at the
applicable rate of exchange (para. 6.01 c).
(f) Interest Rate:     Fixed and no less than 3 percent per annum; charged on
the outstanding principal as expressed in dollar
equivalent at the time of each payment (6.01 c).
(g) Maturity:          The payback period is a term up to 25 years with no
grace period allowed.
(h) Loan to Value Ratio:  Considering the upfront waiver of 50 percent, the NHA
would finance no more than 45 percent of the sale price.
(i) Downpayment:       A cash downpayment by the purchaser would be
encouraged in order to lower debt service payment (at
least 5 percent of sale price).
fj) Monthly Charges:   Prospective buyers should commit no more than 20% of
household income to service debt on a loan no larger
than 36 times their monthly income;
(k) Foreign Exchange   Should a sudden fluctuation in the lek/dollar parity
Risk:               cause the lek payments to increase drastically during any
one quarter (by more than 20 percent, above the
payments scheduled for the previous quarter) the excess
increase may be capitalized at the option of the purchaser
and the corresponding payment would be deferred (para
6.01 h).
4.08  Affordability: Under the assumptions made above, the purchase of an average size
flat would be affordable to households with two wage earners - provided that they are willing
and able to commit to home repayment 15 to 20 percent of their current income and that they
make a downpayment of at least 5 percent of the house price. Some sample household
situations are presented in Annex I. Most plausible cases are those of households which,
having obtained a small flat for free through the privatization process, would ask to trade it
in exchange for a larger flat. In such event NHA would only charge the differential cost of
the two apartments. NHA would then proceed to the upgrade and sale of the vacated unit.
Other cases feature households headed by a civil servant, an enterprise worker, or a medium-
skilled private sector worker which earn the average salary in their professional category and
40



spouses who can be a civil servant, or an enterprise worker that lost the job and draws social
assistance payments. Often the pension of elder parents may help in meeting the required
monthly payments for a larger flat.
4.09  Fnancial Projections Model: A computer model has been developed in order to
analyze the effects of possible changes in any of the key variables of NHA's cash flow. The
model considers only four sources of funds for the agency: i) the proceeds from the two
domestic loans it has received (Annex J. 1, Sources, Loans) and from the proposed IDA
credit; ii) the interest subsidies from the state budget (a wash-out item which appears both on
the sources and uses sides of the statements); iii) the earmarked returns from the privatization
of State-owned housing; and iv) the sales of flats completed by firms worling under NHA
contracts. In turn, the model limits the uses of NHA funds to: i) paying the costs of
construction contracts; ii) repaying principal and interest on the loans received; and iii) a
small amount of administrative costs, at present mainly wages (Annex J-1). The model is
thoroughly interactive and permits to simulate the impact of changes in the speed of
drawdown of borrowed funds, in the total income from privatization and in the sales of
apartments (with varying proportions of cash to term payment sales), in the annual costs of
construction per average unit completed and the number thereof and, most importantly, in the
rate of annual inflation. When any of the basic conditions are altered, use of the model
yields instant feed-back adjustments in the value of all key variables.
4.10  Use of Model: If one accepts that sound financial management of the NHA would
consist in maintaining an appropriate balance between sources and uses of its funds, so as to
avoid significant annual deficit or surplus values, the model can be used continuously by the
NHA to correct its aim as circumstances evolve. What appears particularly critical, at high
levels of inflation, is the speed at which the NHA can put into full use its rapidly eroding
domestic resources. The drawdowns of the NSA and NCB loans (for which the Ministry of
Finance has assumed the contingent liability of subsidizing interest) will depend on the
operating capacity of the NHA to tender, award and supervise construction contracts, on the
efficiency of the chosen enterprises in carrying out the works, and the rapidity with which
condominia can be formed and apartments allocated to creditworthy buyers. The situation
illustrated in Annex J.2 makes conservative allowances in all these respects: it assumes a
relatively slow pace in the abatement of inflation; it envisages a limited volume of apartment
sales in the first and second year of operation; it makes adequate provisions for bad debt and
is prudent in its expectation of retums from the privatization process.'
4.11  NHA Future: Under the assumptions discussed above and with a substantial
injection of technical assistance, the agency should be able to invest the equivalent of 30
million dollars in flats to be completed during the next five years. At the end of this period,
the present value of the corresponding portfolio of receivables could be in the order of forty
34/   In addition, the NHA pays also the service charge on the IDA credit and repays most of the
principal amounts on the domestic loans (Annex J.3, Uses of Funds, Section U).
41



million dollars. The chances that the NHA might develop into some independent source of
housing finance depends not only on its future pricing and interest rate policies (the current
onlending terms barely protect the value of its assets against inflation), but also on the
possibility to resell at fuli market pnce the smaller flats that NHA clients may have traded-
in. It is difficult of course to make predictions in this respect. If properly managed the
NHA should be able to maintain the real value of its borrowed capital, while putting on the
market a sinificant number of apartments which were originally slated as rental units. The
advisability for the agency to venture into the financing of new housing starts for sale should
be assessed at a later date (possibly during the scheduled Mid-Term Review) after the real
estate market had a chance to develop, a private construction industry had formed, the
economy had reached a more stable state and some track record became available to assess
the financial performance of the NHA (para 6.01 i).
42



Chapter 5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01   Several characteristics make this project not amenable to a routine ERR evaluation.
It would consist of over one hundred separate subprojects, scattered in different cities of
Albania. Each of these subprojects has different proportions of sunk costs and calls for
different types of completion works. To calculate the corresponding benefits, one should
impute shadow rental values that reflect the characteristics and location of each of those
subprojects. No reliable information is available to calculate rental prices on specific
locations because so far supply and demand have played no role in setting housing prices in
Albania. It is clear, however, that on a free market, the rents payable for the flats completed
under the project are likely to be quite high because of the very scarcity of dwellings in
Albanian cities. It is also clear that returns are likely to be good, given the fact that only the
incremental investment costs would have to be considered.
5.02  Apart from analytical considerations, the principal value of the project is to support
the GOA strategy of sector reform, promoting private home ownership and introducing the
principle of recovery of investment costs. The project avoids resort to interest rate subsidies
and allocates dwellings to credit-worthy buyers, according to their willingness and ability to
pay. Therefore, it will benefit that segment of population which can afford to make some
downpayment and to devote a reasonable proportion of household income to servicing debt.
To the extent that it would achieve cost recovery from its direct beneficiaries, the project
would also bring about a more equitable system than the one being replaced which
indiscriminately taxed all with low wages while allocating an arbitrary amount of subsidies to
but a few recipient households.
5.03  The project would bear additional benefits by resuming residential construction
activity, generating jobs in the cities of Albania, and enabling small scale, private
entrepreneurs to compete for the award of contracts. Finally, efficiency gains would also
come from the intensive technical assistance program planned under the project, which
should improve cost estimates and construction management, as well as the disbursement and
accounting practices of the financing agency.
43



B. Risks
5.04  The proposed project envisages a rapid reactivation of housing supply. This has
required the Albanian Govemment to make considerable institutional, regulatory and policy
changes (Chapter 2, Table). While all critical legislative measures have been taken already,
these can by no means be considered sufficient to overcome market distortions and popular
preconceptions which have rooted deeply during forty-five years of centralized
mismanagement of the housing sector. The success of the project depends largely on the
speed at which the govemment, the parliament, the investors and the general public will be
willing to endorse new policies, instruments and procedures and the degree to which the
latter will be accepted in practice. This first operation would take place in an institutional
framework in rapid transition, which makes project implementation vulnerable to both
internal and extemal circumstances.
5.05 The National Housing Agency staff, the contractors and the home buyers will all be
laboring under a climate of uncertainties as far as applicable rates and prices are concerned,
while the real income of households may continue to fluctuate, possibly jeopardizing the
affordability of the finished dwellings. Linking repayment of housing loans to the dollar
value of principal, implies that (within set limits) the foreign exchange risk will be borne by
home-buyers . Should the present, upward trend of the economy drastically reverse its
course, the home-buyers may no longer be able or willing to meet the resulting payments. In
this event, the financial results of the operation could be adversely affected for the NHA and
ultimately for the Government of Albania.
5.06 Another project risk is obviously the ability of NHA personnel to internalize and
develop in a short time the necessary professional know-how to manage adequately a new
business - no matter how much technical advice is supplied to them. Finally, while the
project design endeavors to reduce some of those risks, it is evident that the success of the
operation will depend also on the continuity and coherence of the GOA policy for the
housing sector as a whole. Subsequent IDA assistance will be necessary to consolidate the
progress made under this project and to further the restructuring of the sector.
44



Chapter 6. AGREEMENT REACHED
6.01  During Negotiations the following agreements were reached:
(a)   construction subprojects would be appraised by the National Housing Agency
according to agreed criteria of eligibility (para. 3.08);
(b)  sale prices would be denominated in dollars and subloan payments in leks
would be adjusted quarterly according to the current rate of exchange (para.
3.13);
(c)  an interest rate of at least 3 percent per annum would be charged on the
outstanding principal amount, expressed in dollars (paras. 3.13 and 4.07 e);
(d)  the Borrower would ensure that apartments financed by the National Housing
Agency would be sold to private households in accordance with the
Operational Manual, under Terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (paras.
3.14 and 4.07);
(e)  the NHA would keep separate accounts in respect to the activities financed
under the Project, the Special Account, and the activities of the Agency as a
whole, such accounts to be audited every year by qualified, independent
auditors and forwarded to IDA (para. 3.24);
(f)  the NHA would repay the loans obtained from domestic sources according to
the respective agreements; the agency will also pay the service charge on the
IDA credit and would assume debt service for any new debt contracted to
support its activities (paras. 3.13 and 4.05);
(g)   pricing policy would aim at recovering all incremental costs incurred by the
NHA in completing the units (para. 4.02); the average dollar price per square
meter of net floor area would be established at the beginning of each semester,
based on the cost experience of units completed during the previous semester
(para. 4.07 b);
(h)   most of the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the final users;
should a sudden fluctuation in the lek/dollar parity cause monthly payment to
increase during any one quarter by more than 20 percent over the payments
scheduled for the previous quarter the excess increase may be capitalized at
45



the option of the purchaser and its payment thereby deferred (para. 4.07 k); if
increases of more than 20% should continue for more than three quarters in
succession, the prudence of this policy would be reviewed;
(i)   parallel programs to finance new housing starts with public resources should
be compatible with the terms and conditions adopted under the Project (para.
4.11);
(j)  the Borrower would assure that, as the subprojects are selected, the
corresponding unfinished buildings, land sites and infrastructure would
eventually be transferred to the condominia as the latter are formed (paras.
3.13 and 4.04).
6.02  Loan Effectiveness would be contingent upon satisfactory compliance of the
Borrower with the following conditions:
(a)   a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower,
and the National Housing Agency on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para. 3.13);
(b)  the NHA has adopted a Manual of Operation satisfactory to IDA, (para 3.14),
including agreed procurement guidelines (para 3.18), form contracts for the
sale of dwellings subject to a mortgage lien (para. 4.07 a), an explicit pricing
policy for the units to be sold under the project (para. 4.07 b) and provisions
to the effect that subloans to the home buyers would be denominated in dollars
(para. 4.07 e).
6.03  With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
]DA Credit of US $15 million equivalent with a term of 40 years, including a ten year grace
period.
46



ANNEX A
Page 1 of 8
LEGISLATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUTSTANDING lSSUES'
On December 23, 1992, the Albanian Parliament approved Law 7652, On the Privadzation of
State-Owned Housing. During the following two months, this law was supplemented by ministerial decrees that
detailed privatizaion procedures. This report summarizes and comments on these documents and, in the final
section, sets out the additional steps that must be taken to complete the privatzation process.
BACKGROUND
Based on the Albanian Census of 1989, the cities and towns of Albania contain about 290,000 dwellings.
Currently, about 70 percent of all urban dwellings are state-owned. Nearly all are apartments of one to three
bedrooms in muldple dwellings managed by district management agencies under the direction of the Department
of Housing in the Ministry of Construction. About 70 percent of the state-owned dwellinp were built after 1960.
Under the former regime, families and individuals were assigned dwellings in order of priority on a
waiting list. They occupied the dwellings as renters with annual leases that were automatically renewed, so a
family effectively had perpetual tenure. Eviction was legally possible if a tenant failed to pay three months rent
or abused the dwelling, but evictions were rare. Rent (excluding utlities) typically amounted to about 2.5 percent
of household income.
Rents were set administratively according to a complex schedule of dwelling size, amenities, quality, and
location, last promulgated in 1982. The scheduled rents never have covered operating and maintenance expenses
of the buildings, much less amortization of capital costs. Scheduled rents were doubled recently (August 1992)
but still do not cover operating and maintenance costs. As subsidies from the state Treasury have diminished,
maintenance has been reduced to a minimum.
The remaining 30 percent of the urban housing stock is privately owned. Private ownership has never
been illegal in Albania, but all state-sponsored urban construction has been for public or cooperative housing.
Private dwellings include many built before the communist regime came to power, and many built by or for
farmers in the rural fringe that subsequently became urbanized. They are mostly single family dwellings with
garden space, but only 56 percent have indoor plumbing. About forty percent were built before 1945 and 61
percent were built before 1961 (1989 Albanian Census).
THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
The Albanian govermment is committed in principle to privatization of the state-owned housing stock To
date, three draft programs have been prepared by the Ministry of Construction. The first was subminet to
Parliament, but the government fell before it was enacted. The second reached the Council of Ministers and wu
sent back for revision. Law 7652 is based on a third draft approved by the Council of Ministers at the end of
November 1992.
Propred by Ia S. Lowry, Housing Policy Consultan and Carol S. Rabenhor, LeAl Coosltant, USAID.
47



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 8
The basic purposes of privatization are:
* To improve housing maintenance by enabling the owner-occupant to control repair policies, choose
repair contractors, and monitor costs, in order to prevent further deterioration of an already marginal housing
inventory.
* To improve utilization of the housing stock by enabling owners and renters to move freely between
dwellings, but with the Inowledge that they must pay the f1ll cost of the dwellings they choose.
* To create a market for new dwellings by giving households equity in their current dwellings that can
be sold for cash, which in turn can be used as partial payment for new homes.
* To relieve the government of responsibility for providing and managing housing, enabling private
individuals and enterprises, each, acting in his own interest, to perform these functions better and more
efficiently.
Law on the Privatization of State Housing
Law 7652 enables the current occupants of most state-owned dweilings, both apartments and single-family
houses, to claim ownership title to their dwellings by registering their claim with the state enterprise in each urban
district that manages state-owned housing. About 50,000 older and smaller dwellings will be transferable to
private ownership free of charge. About 150,000 newer, larger, and better-quality dwellings will be transferable
subject to a schedule of fees promulgated by ministerial decree; the fees are estimated to average Leks 15,000
per dwelling (excluding those transferred free of charge). (The current Lek to dollar conversion rate is about 100
Lek to $1.)
Occupants of state-owned housing are not obliged to become owners. They can continue as tenants, but
are warned in Article 2 of the law that their rents soon will be Increased to levels that cover 'the full cost of
administering and maintaining the housing.'
Although the owners of privatized dwellings will immediately have the right to sell, rent, or mortgage
their dwellings, only those who privatize single-family dwellings wil immediately gain control of (and
responsibility for) maintenance and repair. Multiple dwellings will continue to be managed by the stateowned
housing enterprises until a condominium association of the owners of the individual dwellings is formed. A
condominium law has been approved by Parliament on March 17, 1993 as Law No. 7683.
Dwellings Not Subject to Privatization
The following categories of stateowned urban housing cannot be privatized:
* Dwellings containing more than one room of 'extra' space under the existing norms for allocating
state-owned housing according to family size. Occupantu of such dwellings who continue as renters will have to
pay a rent surcharge of 10 times the rent for the first extra room and 25 times the rent for additional extra rooms.
(Art. 3 and 12)
* Dwellings that were formerly private property, taken by the state without full compensation. It is
anticipated that these dwellings will be restored to their former owners (or their heirs) by a separate law on
restitution. (Art. 21)
*Dwellings that are subject to legal conflicts, scheduled for administrative reallocation because of excess
48



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 8
space, or reserved from privatization by order of the Council of Ministers. (Art.5 and 14)
Persons or Families Not Eligible to Become Owners by Privatization
* Occupants of a dwelling with more than one extra room according to existing norms for the allocation
of state-owned housing.
* Occupants of a state-owned dwelling who have already privatized another stats-owned dwelling. (Art.
23)
* Occupants of a state-owned dwelling who have permits (issued in 1990 or later) to build a private
dwelling. (Art. 23)
* Persons who moved from rural to urban places after 31 July 1991, who have also profited from the law
that privatized communal farms. (Art. 23)
* Citizens sent abroad 'on duty' who fail to return within 6 months of concluding their duty. (Art. 23
as amended by Law 7672 of 11 February 1993)
ritle to Privatized Housing
Each privatized dwelling will be registered in the name of all adult members of the household, who will
hold title as tenants in common. For a dwelling occupied by members of more than one family, each family
receives an undivided share in proportion to its share of the rent contract. However, when all tenants (whether
or not more than one family) agree, the title can be registered as the property of one household head. (Art. 9)
The site Oand) occupied by a privatized dwelling is also transferred to the new owners. In the case of a
multiple dwelling, only the site occupied by the building (its 'footprint") and a strip of immediately surrounding
land 1 meter wide will be transferred. It becomes the joint property of the owners of the individual dwellings.
In the case of the single-family house 'surrounded by a garden which is permanently used and maintained by the
tenants," the garden is included in the transfer. (Art. 10)
Paying for Privatized Dwelings
As noted, some dwellings may be privatized free of charge and othen require payments to the state.
Although the National Housing Agency does not hold title to state-owned dwellings, the privatzation law says
that all revenues from privatization accrue to the Agency. The Ministry estimates that those revenues will be
about Leks 2 billion.
The law states that dwellings consisting of two rooms and kitchen built before January 1, 1966 and
dwellings consisting of one room and kitchen built before January 1, 1971 will be transferred free of charge to
the occupants, unless they are classified as 'Category I' (best quality and location). (Art. 3) Also, dwellings that
are officially determined to be 'in danger of collapse" can be transferred free of charge, and the owners can
obtain rehabilitation credit or grants from the National Housing Agency. (Art. 8) Finally, state-owned dwellings
may be privatized free of charge if any of the occupants are war invalids or were imprisoned, interned, or
deported by the former regime for political reasons. If such persons are homeless, they will be provided
state-owned dwellings that they can then privatize free of charge. (Art. 7)
If the tenants of a state-owned dwelling have a full extra room (according to existing space norms), they
must pay for the extra space even though they would otherwise be entitled to take the dwelling free
of charge. As noted, a dwelling cannot be privatized if the extra space consists of two or more rooms. (Art. 11)
49



ANNEX A
Page 4 of 8
The schedule of fees (prices) for dwellings not transferable free of chugs (as indicated above) is included
in Bylaw No. 1 on State Housing Privatization (January 29, 1993). The fee per unit varies with age of building,
number of rooms in the unit, location and quality of the building (Category) and whether the unit includes a
kitchen (as opposed to makeshift cooking facilities). The most important factors are age of building and size of
unit. For example, within Category I (best quality and location), the fee for a dwelling in a 40-year-old building
ranges from Leks 2,000 to Leks 10,000; in a 5-year-old building, the range is Leks 16,000 to Leks 40,000.
If the applicant chooses, the privatization fee for the dwelling may be paid in installments. If the
applicant pays in full when the contract is signed, he gets a discount of 20 percent; if he pays half at that time,
the discount is 10 percent; if he pays a fourth, the discount is 5 percent. The balance is paid in monthly
installments; the amount is negotiable, but must be at least Leks 200; this amount will be indexed to official salary
scales. (Art. 6) Decree No. 48 of the Council of Ministers on Implementation of the Law on State Housing
Privatization sets the minimum at Leks 250. (Par. 16)
When the privatization contract is signed, the tenant ceases to pay rent, but does not receive title until
he has paid the full amount of the privatization fee. (Bylaw 1, par. 7) If he fails to pay six successive monthly
installments, the contract is terminated, title returns to the state, and the tenant reverts to rental tenure. (Bylaw
1, Form 3) As the contract is written, the only penalty for default is loss of prior payments.
Neither the privatization law nor the bylaw deals with the question of the new owner's obliations for
maintenance and operating expenses. If the privatized dwelling is an apartment in a multiple dwelling, expenses
for building maintenance and operation in principle should be shared among all owners in proportion to their
holdings.
Paying for Land
The prices for different categories of urban land are fixed in leks, averaging about Leks 100 per m2. The
land cost can be substantial in Albanian terms in the case of a single-family house with garden. For apartments
in multiple dwelings, each unit's undivided share of the site is relatively smll, about Leks 20 per m2 of the
unit's floor space. Bylaw No. 1 explains in exhaustive detail how to calculate the shares costs of land for various
arrangements of apartments and tenancy.
Benefits to Persons Ineligble to Prlvatlize a State-Owned Dwelllng
Only occupants of state-owned dwellings are eligible to privatize them. Most other families live in private
housing and receive no benefit from the privatization law. However, the law provides benefits for those who are
currently 'homeless' or inadequately housed. Council of Ministers Decree No. 49 (29 Jamuary 1993) defis
categories of citizens as 'homeless.'
Homeless citizens will be offered low-interest loans for building or buying homes. The interest rates will
be subsidized by the state through the National Housing Agency. (Art. 16) Alternatively, homeless citzens are
entitled to cash grants of Leks 10,000 per capita to be used only for building, rehabilitating, or buying homes.
The grants will be administered by the National Housing Agency. (Art. 16)
Owners of substandard dwellings are entitled to cash grants of Leks 2,600 per capita, to be used only for
building, rehabilitating, or buying homes. These grants also will be administered by the National Housing
Agency. (Art. 16)
Privatizatlon of Dwellings Not Yet Completed
Decree 46 of the Council of Ministers (January 29, 1993) deals with the completion and disposition of
apartment houses begun under the former regime. There are 12,300 dwellings in various stages of construction,
50



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 8
some of which are occupied by squatters and others of which have been promised to specific enterprise employees
or others. The decree distinguishes (a) about 7,450 dwellings begun by state economic enterprises using voluntary
labor from their employees, and (b) about 4,850 dwellings begun by state construction enterprises under contract
to the Ministry of Construction.
The dwellings begun by state economic enterprises will be treated as follows:
* Dwellings very nearly complete will be completed using funds provided by the state budget of 1993
and will be privatized under Law 7652, with a 20-percent surcharge on the privatization fee. (Par. 2.a)
* Dwellings finished at least to the second floor will be given to the sponsoring enterprises free of charge.
The enterprises may finish these dwellings and distribute them to their employees, or, if the enterprises cannot
afford to finish the dwellings, they can distribute them to their employees free of charge, but the employees are
then required to finish them from their own resources. If neither mode can be arranged before June 1, 1993, the
partially completed dwellings will be given to the municipalities and communes in which they are located. (Par.
2.b)
* Dwellings that are not finished to the second floor are transferred to the National Housing Agency for
completion. The enterprise that initiated these dwellings loses any claim to them. (Par. 3)
Dwellings initiated by state construction enterprises under contract to the Ministry of Construction will
be treated as follows:
* Dwellings very nearly complete will be completed using funds of the National Housing Agency and will
be privatized under Law 7652, with a 20-percent surcharge on the privatization fee. (Par. 4.b)
* Dwellings that are finished at least to the second floor will be completed using funds of the National
Housing Agency, except that the utility connections will be financed by the state budget. (Par. 4.c)
The decree does not dispose of the remaining group of Ministry dwellings, those that are not finished to
the second floor; this may reflect an error in drafting.
The funds available to the National Housing Agency for completing the buildings it initiated include Leks
300 million loaned at low interest by the Savings Bank of Albania; Lehs 1.0 billion loaned at zero interest by the
National Commercial Bank; proceeds from privatization fees; and proceeds from the sale of partially completed
dwellings. IDA currently is considering an interest-free loan (IDA terms) of $15 million (currently equivalent
to Leks 1.5 billion), for completion of some of these dwellings.
Rental Housing Policy
For tenants of state-owned housing, privatization is voluntary. Those who choose to remain as renters
and those who do not qualify to privatize their dwellings will continue to pay rents to the state housing
management enterprise, which will continue to pay for the maintenance of the dwellings. (Art. 18) However,
they are warned that rents will soon be increased to a level that will cover the full cost of operating and
maintaining their buildings. (Art. 2)
Every six months, the Council of Ministers will review the rents of dwellings remaining in state
ownership, presumably raising rents in steps to approach full cost. The same rent schedules will apply to privately
owned dwellings (including restituted dwellings) operated as rental property prior to the effective date of this law.
(Art. 19)
Rents for privately owned dwellings first offered for rent after the enactment of this law will not be
51



ANNEX A
Page 6 of 8
controlled by the state. Rents for restituted dwellings whose owners are inadequately housed will be decontrolled
on December 31, 1993. Rents on all other privately owned dwellings will be decontrolled in December 1995.
After that date, the only rents set by the state will for state-owned dwellings. (Art. 19)
The state will continue as landlord for current occupants who do not privatize. In addition, the
government intends to provide some new rental housing for active officers of the army, workers with very low
incomes, families displaced by restitution, and other categories determined by the Council of Ministers.
Privatization Procedures
Decree No. 48 of the Council of Ministers describes the administrative procedures for privatizing
state-owned housing. The process will be supervised by a Central Commission headed by the Minister of
Construction and composed of representatives of the Ministries of Justice, Finance and Economy, Labour, Public
Order, and Industry, and a representative of the Albanian State Bank. (Para. 2) Each of Albania's 36
administrative districts will have a district privatization commission.
Bylaw No. 1 indicates that the expenses of the Central Commission, the district commissions, and the
processing of privatization applications will be paid from a special fund provided to the Ministry of Construction.
(Para. 23)
Applications for privatization will be accepted until December 31, 1993 (Law 7652, Art. 26).
Subsequently, the personnel of the district housing enterprises who managed the process will be transferred to
the district office of the National Housing Agency. After December 31, 1993, rents will be paid to the National
Housing Agency. (Decree 48, para. 10-11) Likewise, all privatization fees will be credited to the account of
the National Housing Agency. (Law 7652, Art. 24)
MAKING PRIVATIZATION WORK
The program of housing privatization described above is a remarkable legislative achievement. In a litdle
more than a month, a ministry draft providing for a fundamental change in the organization of the Albanian
economy became the law of the land. The law passed on December 23, 1992 was followed by a flurry of decrees
by the Council of Ministers setting up an administrative procedure to implement the law. During February 1993,
privatization commissions were appointed in all 36 administrative districts of Albania and representatives of these
commissions were convened in a workshop designed to explain to them their responsibilites and the procedures
they must follow.
Although nearly everything needed to accept privatization applications is now in place, there is still more
work to be done before most Albanian dwellings can or will become private property. During a lG-day USAID
technical assistance mission in February-March 1993, a number of documents were prepared to assist with filling
in the gaps and completion of the privatization process.
Condominium Law and Procedures
The condominium law, prepared with USAID technical assistance has been approved by Parliament on
March 17, 1993 as Law No. 7683. This law provides a sturdy legal basis for full ownership of individual
apartments in multiple dwellings and joint ownership of the building's common areas and equipment. It also
provides for building management by the condominium association and for the assessment and collection of fees
to support building maintenance and operations.
52



ANNEX A
Page 7 of 8
The Charter of the National Housing Agency has been amended to clarify its role as the agent of the state
that will transfer title to residential units in multiple dwellings from the state to private persons. The revised
charter was prepared with USAID technical assistance and was approved by the Council of Ministers with Decree
No. 198 of May 4, 1993.
Condominiulmr must be established in the buildings to be privatized so that ownership of the dwelling
units and common property can be transferred legally from the state to the individual private owners. This step
is accomplished by filing a foundation deed for each building to be privatized in the district real property
registration office. A model foundation deed was prepared with USAID technical assistance.
The Condominium Law has been integrated by a Decree of the Council of Ministers on the 'Procedures
for the Creation of Condominia and Transfer of Privatized State Housing to Private Individuals and to
Municipalities' (Resolution No. 214 of May 10, 1993). Accordingly, the District Housing Agency (Banesa), a
founder and agent of the state, will fill out and register a foundation deed for each privatized apartment building.
The foundation deed describes and registers the state-owned property in the district real property registration
offices for the first time. While private property has been registered in Albania, records of state-owned properties
were kept by the state management enterprise office. The foundation deed begins the chain of tidtle for each state-
owned property, which is necessary to establish a real estate market.
The foundation deed also describes and registers separately in the real property registration office the
individual units in the condominium. This begins a chain of title for each unit. After the first transfer of title from
the state to the private owner, upon subsequent sales title will transfer from the first owner to the second owner,
and so on. This is also necessary to establish a real estate market.
Finally, the foundation deed describes how the condominium association will be organized, and provides
authority and procedures by which the association will make decisions about the management and operations of
the condominium.
Management of Mixed-Ownership Buildings
Many buildings will contain some units that are not privatized-whose occupants remain as rental tenants
of state-owned dwellings. The management of these dwellings-selecting tenants, collecting rent, participating in
the condominium association as an agent of the owner (the state), paying condominium fees-is a function that
is delegated to the District Housing Agency during the privatization period. The state should transfer both
ownership of the dwellings and management responsibility for them to the local governments at the end of the
privatization period. A proposed Council of Ministers decree, setting out these steps, has been prepared.
Restitution
The Real Property Restitution Act has been approved by Parliament on April 17, 1993. The restitution
of privatized shops, while a complicate legal matter which was the major focus of dispute in the People's
Assembly, does not seem likely to have much effect on the projects eligible for MDA financial support, because
the latter are all unfinished and unoccupied structures. The IDA financed subprojects will mostly fall under the
provisions of Article 16, which provides for compensation of former land owners, not restitution. In that case,
the construction project can proceed without waiting for settlement of a compensation claim, because the NHA
and subsequent owners play no part, financial or otherwise, in the settlement of the claim.
Policy on Rent Increases
The government's policy on rent increases for those who choose to remain as rental tenants in state-owned
dwellings must be carefully considered. Unless rents are increased to cover full maintenance and operating costs,
53



ANNEX A
Page 8 of 8
many occupants of sta-owned housing will be better off as renters than as owners. On the other hand, not all
Albanians can afford either full-cost rents or the alternative of full-cost ownership. The emerging solution in other
Eastern European countries is a system of housing allowances targeted strictly to poor families, not to dwellings.
Land Pricing
Bylaw 1 must be amended to rationalize the procedure for calculating and collecting the privatizadon fee
on land. Other minor amendments to the bylaw and to ministerial decrees are needed to clarify either the intent
or the implementation of Law 7652.
Public Education
Last but not least, a prograrm of public education is essential. Although the Ministry of Construction has
published a useful compilation of Law 7652 and related decrees, this will not suffice to explain to ordinary
Albanians who is eligible to privatize a dwelling, the advantages and disadvantages of privatization, how their
buildings will be managed as condominiums, the cash requirements at various stages in the privatization process,
and the procedure of application and approval. We recommend both printed booldets and rehearsed television
presentations.
An explanation of condominium ownership in a question and answer format has been prepared to help
explain condominium concepts to govermnent officials who will be responsible for administering the privatization
process.
54



ANNEX B. 1
UNFINISHE DWELLINGS INVENTORY
OVERALL INVESTENT PROGRAM
(Source MOC, February 1993)
Total             Economic Enterprises        State Enterpises
Unfinished Flat                      12,289                     7,423                     4,866
1 + 1 rooms - ml 64sross              4,920                     2,980                     1,940
2 + I rooms - m  82 gross             6,770                     4,100                     2,670
3 + I rooms - m2 93 gross               610                      370                       240
Averge OFA (m2)                          75                       75                        75
Total GFA (m'2)                     926,560                   561,360                   365,200
Percent Invesed (%)                      S4                       58                        49
Le" needed                     6,429,870,000             4,365,000,000             2,064,870,000
Les x flat                          S20,465                   583,182                   426,274
Laks x M2 gross                       6,940                     7,775                     5,684
Dolars needed (mil)                     $64                      S44                        $21
DoUars x flat                        SS,20S                    $5,832                    $4,280
Dollars x m2 grows                      S69                      $78                        S56
Advanced DU's                         5,420                     2,470                     2,9S0
Pecent invested (%)                      75                       75                         75
DoUars needed (mill)                    $12                       $6                         $6
Doluas x flat                        $2,210                    $2,500                    $1,970
DoUars x m1 gros (mill)                 $30                      $33                        $26
LAss Advanced Dl's                    3.210                     2,430                       780
Percent invesed (%)                      35                       40                         30
Dollars needed (mill)                   $19                       $1S                        $4
Dollars x flat                       $5,945                    $6,000                    $5,770
Dollbs x ma gross                       $79                       $80                       $77
Barldy Started DUTs                   3,670                     2,550                     1,120
Percent invested (%)            less than 10              less than 10              Iess than 10
Dollars needed (mill)                   $33                       $23                       $10
DoUars x flat                        $9,060                    $8,980                    $9,241
Dollars x mr  gross                    $120                      $120                      $123
Auumptiaon:   Aversp gross floor aes of flat -7S M2; Averag replacement cost /m2      $100 groS, $133 net
*      4,900 units urrendered to economic enterpries according to Decree No. 46 of Januay '93.
*      MOC staff etimae  tht about $43 million would be required to complete the 7,400 units that NHA should
complete according to the COM's Drwe.
55



UNFNLE HOUSISG INVENTORY: URIBAN HOUSEHOLDS. DWELLLNGS AND lDELUNG SIZE
URBAN HOUSEHOLDS          URBAN DWELLINGS            STATE ENTERPRISE HOUSING    ECONOMIC ENTERPRISE HOUSING
Number of   Average                              Unfinished      Dweling Unik Size   Unfinished  Dweling Unit Size
Households   Persons          Publlctobe  Percen    Housing    1+1   2+1   3.1   Houshn   1+1   2+1   3+1
Dlirkt               Per Dltict   Per HH      Total Prlvatized  of Urban  No. of DU   Rooms Rooms Rooms  No. d DtU RooPm  Rooms Rooms
1.  Bera                     16.270       4.2    16.295   10,965       67%       143       57     79      7        375    150    206     19
2.  Bulqkze (keopl a/        (1.352)      4.8         0        0        0%        90       36     50      4          0      0      0      0
3.  DeWMe(Srande)            (1.937)      4.2         0        0       0%         24       10     12      2          0      0      0      0
4.  D.ol (Korce)                 0        3.8         0        0        0%         0        0      0      0          0      0      0      0
5.  Dber                      4.143       4.5      4,128    3.389      82%        79       32     43      4        211     84    116     11
6.  Durres                   31.135       3.9    31.130   19.153       62%       172       61     84     27        721    288    397     36
7.  Elbasan                  23,695       4.1    23.568   15.480       66%       316      126    174     16        294    118    162     14
8.  Fler                     16573       4.2    16,571    12.874      78%       155       62     85      8        542    217    298     27
9.  Gllrokaster               6.598       4.1      6,573    3,277      50%       135       54     74      7        179     72     98      9
10. Gramsh                   1.642        4.7      1.636    1.488      91%        53       21     29      3         97     39     53      5
11. Kavalam(Dues)           (6,094)       4.1         0        0       0%        140       56     77      7        129     52     71      6
12. Kolonle                   1.693       4.1      1,681    1,262      75%        80       32     44      4          0      0      0      0
13. Korce                    19,295       3.8    19.285   11.185       58%       323      129    178     16        220     88    121     11
14. Kruje                    9.407        4.3      9.033    5.745      64%       100       40     55      5        100     40     55      5
15. Krumr(Hus)(Kukes)         (546)       5.4         0        0        0%        30       12     16      2          0      0      0      0
16. Kucove(Berat)            (4.969)      4.4         0        0        0%        80       32     44      4         80     32     44      4
17. Kukes                     3.273       5.0      3.213    3,134      98%        75       30     41      4        270    108    149      13
18. Lac (Kruje)              (2.994)      4.3         0        0        0%       170       68     94      8          0      0      0      0
19. Lezhe                     2.902       4.3      2.874    2,556      89%        82       33     45      4         40     16     22      2
20. Llbrazhd                  1,910       4.5      1.914    1.827      95%       126       50     69      7          0      0      0      0
21. Lushnie                   7,076       4.2      7,107    4.524      64%        40       16     22      2        376    150    207      19
22. Mallakaster (Baflsh)     (1.202)      4.8         0         0       0%         0        0      0      0         30     12     16      2
23. Males Madhe(Skhoder)         0        3.8         0        0        0%         0        0      0      0          0      0      0      0
23. Mat                       3,070       4.7      3.057    2.758      90%       176       70     97      9        147     59     81      7
24. Mlrdite                   1.639       4.6      1,601    1,528      95%       144       58     79      7          0      0      0      0
25. Peqln(Elbasan)           (1.387)      4.7         0        0        0%        45       18     25      2          0      0      0      0
26. Permt                     2,245       4.2      2.235    1.814      81%        56       22     31      3         54     22     30      2
27. Pogradec                 4,812        4.0      4.742    3.145      66%       144       58     79      7         50     20     28      2
28. Puke                      1.350       4.4      1.359    1.295      95%       116       47     64      5          0      0      0      0
29. Sarande                   6,371       4.1      6,360    4,575      72%        76       30     42      4        137     55     75      7
30. Shkoder                 21,914        3.8    21,907   11,786       54%       381      152    210     19        342    137    188     17
31. Skrapar                   3,521       4.7      3,510    3,110      89%       144       58     79      7         76     30     42      4
32. Tepelene                  3.169       4.3      3.171    2,941      93%        86       34     47      5        270    108    149     13    :;
33. Tlrane                  72.210        3.4    72,145   57.234       79%       860      344    473     43       2049    820   1127    102
34. Tropoie                   2,062       4.5      2.065    1.569      76%        73       29     40      4         84     34     46      4      >c
35. Viore                    21.254       4.0    21.252   13,611       64%       152       61     84      7        550    220    303     27      00
;la
Tota                   289.229       4.7   288,412  202.22        70%      4.866    1.938  2.665    263      7,423  2,971  4,084    368
at Newly formed districts In brackets were originally part of others and sum up to 20,501 households. (The corresponding number of public dwellings is not avaHiable).



UNFINISHED HOUSING INVENTORY: COMBINED STATE AND ECONOMIC ENTERPFISE HOUSING
Number  Percent        Dollars Needed For Complelon               Percenlt Estiated Tot Dollar Cost
Disict              of Unts  Invested       Total    Per Unit  Per m 2   Per 20 DU   To Inve         Total   Per Unt   Per m 2 Per 20 DU
1.  Berat                   518      58%   3.010,000        5.811      77      116.216        42%   5,207,447    10,053        134   201,060
2.  Bulqize                  90      52%      420,000       4,667      62       93,333        48%      807.692     8,974       120   179,487
3.  Delvlne                  24      16%       33,000       1.375      18       27,500        84%      206.250     8,594       115   171.875
4.  Devoll                    0       0%           0           0        0           0           0%          0         0         0         0
5.  Diber                   290      43%   1.285,000        4,431      59       88,621        57%   2,968.063    10.235        136   204.695
6.  Durres                  893      56%   4.769,000        5,340      71      106.809        44%   8.569.615      9.596       128   191.929
7.  Elbasan                 610      60%   3.359.000        5.507      73      110.131        40%   5,569,371      9.130       122   182,602
8.  Fier                    697      69%   4,629,000        6,641      89      132,826        31%   6.744,127      9,676       129   193.519
9.  Gjlrokaster             314      39%      997.000       3.175      42       63,503        61%   2,540,741      8.092       108   161.831
10. Gramsh                  150      68%     991.000       6.607       88      132,133        32%   1.464,596      9.764      130   195,279
11. Kavaja                  269      42%   1.065,000        3,959      53       79,182        58%   2.559,706      9,516      127   190,313
12. Kolonle                  s0      39%     299.000       3,738       50       74,750        61%      766,667     9,583      128   191,667
11. Korce                   543      54%   2.627,000       4.838       65       96.759        46%   4,847,541      8,927       119   178,547
14. Kruje                   200      51%     925.000        4,625      62       92.500        49%    1,821.429     9,107       121   182.143
15. Krum (Hus)               30      25%      60.000        2,000      27       40,000        75%      240,000     8.000       107   160,000
I16. Kucove                 160      41%     640,000        4.000      53       80.000        59%    1.561.905     9,762       130   195,238
17. Kukes                   345      76%   2,503,000        7,255      97      145,101        24%   3,296.774      9,556       127   191,117
18  Lac                     170      39%     618,000        3.635      48       72,706        61%   1.584.615      9,321       124   186.425
19. Lezhe                   122      39%     450.000        3.689      49       73.770        61%   1.150.000      9,426       126   188.525
20. Lazhd                   126      52%      580.000       4.603      61       92,063        48%    1,115,385     8.852       118   177,045
21. Lushnle                 416      46%   2,599.000        6.248      83      124,952        54%   5,675,159    13.642        182   272,844
22. Maltakaster (Balsh)      30      55%      165.000       5,500      73      110.000        45%      300,000    10.000       133   200.000
2. MablesaMadhe               0       0%           0           0        0           0          0%           0         0         0         0
24. Mat                     323      41%   1,235.000        3,824      51       76,471        59%   3,010,476      9,320       124   186.407
25. MIrdlte                 144      34%     443.000        3.076      41       61,528        66%   1,302,941      9,048       121   190,964
26. Peqh                     45      39%      164.000       3,644      49       72,889        61%      420,513     9,345       125   186.895
27. Permat                  110      45%     483,000       4,391       59       87,818        55%    1,074,770     9.771       130   195.413
28. Pogradec                194      47%     871.000       4,490       60       89.794        53%    1,845.833     9,515       127   190.292
29. Puke                    116      71%     750,000       6,466       86      129.310        29%   1,056,338      9.106       121   182,127
30. Sarande                 213      36%     716,000       3,362       45       67.230        64%    1,990,000     9,343       125   186,854
31. Shkoder                 723      64%   4,161,000       5,755       77      115.104        36%   6,530.690      9,033      120   180,655
32. Skrapar                 220      51%   1,089,000       4,950       66       99,000        49%   2,139.068      9,723      130   194.461
33. Tepelene                356      77%   2,634.000       7,399       99      147,978        23%   3.416.279      9.596      128   191,926
34. Tirane                2,909      50%  14,066,000       4.842       65       96.844        50%   28.010.443     9,629      128   192,578
35. Tropole                 157      37%     526,000       3,350       45       67,006        63%    1,415,758     9,018      120   180,351
36  Vlor                    702      76%   5,116,000       7,288       97      145,755        24%    6,775,610     9,652      129   193,037            x
Total                12,289      54%  64,296.000       5,232       70     104,643         46%  117.965.821    9.601       128   192,019            W



UNffNISHED HOUSN  INVENTORY: STATE ENR8E HOUSING
Nunr   Percent                 Dolrs Needed For Complton          Prce                  Estmated Total Dolar Cad
Ditrict             o Uniks  hweded           Total     Per Uni   Perm2   Pr 20 DU  To Invest        Total     Pr Unk       Perm2   Pr 20 U
1.  Berat                   143      53%        685.000       4.790       64       95,804      47%    1,457,447      10,192         136      203.839
2.  Bulqize                  90      48%        420.000       4,667       62       93.333      52%      807,692       8.974         120      179.487
3.  DeMne                    24      84%         33,000       1,375       18       27.500      16%      206,250       8,594         115      171.875
4.  DeWll                     0       0%              0           0        0            0       0%           0            0           0           0
5.  Dber                     79      83%        146,000        1.848      25       36.962      17%      858.824      10.871         145      217,424
6.  Dunes                   172      25%       1,020,000      5.930       79      118.605      75%    1,360,000       7,907         105      158,140
7.  Elbasan                316       45%      1,436,000       4,544       61       90,886      55%    2,610,909       8.262         110      165.247
8.  Her                     155      37%        827.000       5,335       71      106,710      63%    1,312,698       8,469         113      169,380
9.  Gllrokaster             135      96%         30,000         222        3        4.444       4%      750,000       5,556          74      111.111
10. Gramsh                  53       33%        330,000       6,226       83      124,528      67%     492.537        9.293         124      185,863
11. Kavala                 140       71%        368.000       2,629       35       52,571      29%    1,268,966       9,064         121      181,281
12. Kolonle                 80       61%        299,000       3.738       50       74.750      39%     766,667        9,583         128      191,667
13. Korce                  323       39%      1,615,000       5,000       67      100.000      61%    2,647,541       8,197         109      163,934
14. Kruje                  100       58%        345,000       3,450       46       69,000      42%      821,429       8.214         110      164.286
15. Krum (Hus)              30       75%         60,000       2,000       27       40.000      25%      240,000       8.000         107      160,000
J  16. Kucove                   80       58%        320,000       4,000       53       80.000      42%     761,905        9,524         127     190,476
17. Kukes                    75      38%        370.000       4,933       66       98,667      62%      596,774       7,957         106      159,140
18. Lac                     170      61%        618,000       3,635       48       72,706      39%    1,584,615       9,321         124      186,425
19. Lezhe                   82       64%        270,000       3,293       44       65,854      36%      750,000       9.146         122      182,927
20. Librazhd                126      48%        580,000       4,603       61       92,063      52%    1,115,385       8,852         118      177,045
21. Lushnie                  40      44%        230.000       5,750       77      115,000      56%      410,714      10,268         137      205.357
22. Mallakaster (Ballsh)      0       0%             0            0        0            0       0%           0            0           0           0
23. MalesiaMadhe              0       0%             0            0        0            0       0%           0            0           0           0
24. Mat                     176      58%        647,000       3,676       49       73,523      42%    1,540.476       8,753         117      175,054
25. Mlrdite                 144      66%        443,000       3,076       41       61,528      34%    1,302.941       9,048         121      180,964
26. Peqin                    45      61%        164,000       3,644       49       72,889      39%      420,513       9,345         125      186,895
27. Permet                   56      38%        332,000       5,929       79      118,571      62%      535.484       9,562         127      191,244
28. Pogradec                144      52%        646.000       4,486       60       89,722      48%    1,345,833       9,346         125      186,921
29. Puke                    116      29%        750,000       6.466       86      129.310      71%    1,056,338       9,106         121      182,127
30. Sarande                 76       95%         31,000         408        5        8,158       5%      620.000       8,158         109      163,158
31. Shkoder                 381      30%      2,177,000       5,714       76      114,278      70%    3,110,000       8,163         109      163.255
32. Skrapar                 144      53%        648,000       4,500       60       90,000      47%    1,378,723       9,574         128      191,489
33. Tepelene                86       57%        304,000       3,535       47       70,698      43%      706,977       8,221         110      164,413
34. Tlrane                 860       57%      3,266,000       3,798       51       75,953      43%    7,595,349       8,832         118      176,636
35. Tropole                 73       67%        190.000       2,603       35       52,055      33%      575,758       7.887         105      157,742
36  Vlore                  152       18%      1.046,000       6,882       92      137,632      82%    1,275.610       8,392         112      167,843
Total                 4866       49%     20,646,000       4,243       57      84,858       51%   42.284.354       8,690         116     173.795



UNFINISHED HOUSING INVENTORY: ECONOMIC ENTERPRISE HOUSING
Number   Percent                Dollars Needed For Completion    Percent              Estimated Total Dollar Cost
District            of Units  Invested        Total   Per Unit   Per m 2 Per 20 DU  To Invest       Total     Per Unit     Per m 2 Per 20 DU
1.  Berat                   375        38%t    2.325,000     6,200        C3    124,000      62%    3,750,000       10,000         133   124,000
2.  Bulqize                   0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
3.  Delvine                   0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
4.  Devoll                    0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
5.  Diber                   211        46%     1,139,000     5,398        72    107,962      54%    2,109,259        9.996         133   107,962
6.  Durres                  721        48%     3,749,000     5,200        69    103,994      52%    7,209,615        9,999         133   103,994
7.  Elbasan                 294        35%     1,923,000     6,541        87    130,816      65%    2,958.462       10,063         134   130,816
8.  Fier                    542        30%     3,802,000     7,015        94    140,295      70%    5,431,429       10,021         134   140,295
9.  Gjirokaster             179        46%       967.000     5,402        72   108,045       54%    1,790,741       10,004         133   108,045
10. Gramsh                   97        32%      661,000      6,814        91    136,289      68%      972.059       10,021         134   136,289
11. Kavaja                  129        46%      697,000      5,403        72    108,062      54%    1,290,741       10,006         133   108,062
12. Kolonje                   0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
13. Korce                   220        54%     1,012,000     4,600        61    92,000       46%    2,200,000       10,000         133    92,000
14. Kru)e                   100        42%      580,000      5,800        77    116,000      58%    1.000,000       10,000         133   116,000
15. Krum (Hus)                0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
16. Kucove                   80        60%      320,000      4,000        53     80,000      40%      800,000       10,000         133    80,000
17. Kukes                   270        21%     2,133,000     7,900       105    158,000      79%    2,700,000       10,000         133   158,000
18. Lac                       0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
19. Lezhe                    40        55%       180,000     4,500        60     90,000      45%      400,000       10,000         133    90,000
20. Librazhd                  0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
21. Lushnje                 376        55%     2,369,000     6,301        84    126.011      45%    5,264,444       14,001         187   126,011
22. Mallakaster (Ballsh)     30        45%       165,000     5,500        73    110,000      55%      300,000       10,000         133   110,000
23. Malesla Madhe             0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
24. Mat                     147        60%       588,000     4,000        53     80,000      40%    1,470,000       10,000         133    80,000
25. Mirdite                   0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
26. Peqin                     0         0%            0          0         0          0       0%            0           0            0         0
27. Permet                   54        72%       151,000     2,796        37    55,926       28%      539,286        9,987         133    55,926
28. Pogradec                 50        55%      225,000      4,500        60     90,000      45%      500,000       10,000         133    90,000
29. Puke                      0         0%            0          0         0          0       0h           0           0            0         0
30. Sarande                 137        50%      685,000      5,000        67    100,000      50h   1,370,000       10,000         133   100,000
31. Shkoder                 342        42%     1,984,000     5,801        77    116.023      58%    3,420,690       10,002         133   116,023
32. Skrapar                  76        42%      441,000      5,803        77    116,053      58%      760,345       10,005         133   116,053
33. Tepelene                270        14%     2,330.000     8,630       115    172,593      86%    2,709,302       10,034         134   172,593
34. Tirane                2,049        47%    10,820,000     5,281        70    105,612      53%   20,415,094        9,963         133   105,612        >
35. Tropoie                  84        60%      336.000      4.000        53     80,000      40%      840,000       10,000         133    80,000
36  Vlore                   550        26%     4,070,000     7,400        99    148,000      74%    5,500,000       10,000         133   148,000
Total                 7,423       58%    43,652,000     5,881        78    117,613       42%   75,701,466      10,198         136   117,613



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 4
Albania Housing Project
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Background
A substantial program of technical assistance is required to implement the project to be funded
by the IDA loan and to support the development of privatization, reform and growth of the
Albanian Housing Sector. Joint IDA - USAID missions have already provided assistance that
has been crucial to the development of this project and the whole housing policy of the
Government of Albania.
The Government has initiated privatization of state owned housing, has established the National
Housing Agency as a tool for restarting, reforming and privatizing housing construction and has
started the creation or reform of housing policy at all levels. It will continue to need the
proposed technical assistance program to carry on and effectively implement this process without
making mistakes which would be very costly to rectify later.
Thanks in large part to technical assistance given by previous IDA - USAID missions, the
Government is currently in the initial stages of privatizing the existing state owned housing.
This effort is being managed by a multi-ministry Commission lead by the Ministry of
Construction. This assessment mission determined that the Commission needs additional help to
fully succeed in meeting its objectives. The issue of restitution of housing to pre-Communist
owners is now being hotly debated in Tirana with identified possible adverse consequences for
housing sector privatization process. Policy making officials have been advised of some of these
consequences and will probably need further creative assistance to fashion workable policies that
meet their political needs. Market economy housing, land use and urban planning, policies for
mixed commercial and residential use of privatized and newly constructed housing, devolvement
of responsibility for low income housing, zoning and inspection of construction to local
authorities and development of a permanent market based housing finance structure are among
the issues that the Albanian Govemment is just beginning to tackle. Given the lack of Albanians
experienced in these matters, technical assistance on the policy level will be essential for their
success.
The IDA funded project focuses on funding the construction of partially completed housing
through the National Housing Agency. This is a startup, interim, autonomous organization with
a broad charter. Its work will be directly affected by policies such as those mentioned above.
Its staff will also need substantial advice and assistance to structure its organization and to meet
its goals.
Bilateral grants from USAID, and possibly other donors, totaling about $1,500,000.00, will be
necessary to fund this program.
60



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 4
Benericiaries of Assistance
The technical assistance will be primarily targeted to help the National Housing Agency to help
it fulfill its mission. Some assistance will also be needed to advise the central govemment itself,
primarily through the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Territorial Planning, for matters
of policy and law, for coordination of assistance involving more than one agency and for
education of housing consumers and construction/developers for their new role. Finally, the
advisors providing technical assistance under this project will need to support those on other
projects on matters related to the housing sector. For example, project technical assistance may
be needed to local authorities to help them take on new responsibilities for public housing and
for control of real estate development and construction.
A team, headed by a project manager, would be composed of long, medium and short term
advisors and trainers. The project manager, based at the National Housing Agency would
provide long term technical assistance (up to 3 years). In addition to specific duties, the long
term advisor would be responsible for planning and coordinating technical assistance activities,
helping develop Albanian nationals to assume their roles, and maintaining liaison with the
Government, IDA, USAID and other funding organizations.
The Project Manager would:
*     Advise the General Manager of the National Housing Agency, its Board of
Directors, the Minister of Construction, and other senior government officials on
housing policy issues including privatization, rent, restitution to former owners,
etc.
*     Help develop housing sector policies and programs that meet IDA/IMF and
USAID guidelines, meet Albanian needs and are workable.
Develop and manage housing sector technical assistance programs.
*     Act as primary liaison with IDA, USAID and other international funders and their
local representatives.
*     assist the NHA General Manager to develop and implement effective management
policies and structures.
*     develop training requirements for NHA staff and coordinate training programs.
*     Help develop operating procedures and manuals for all functions and sections of
the NHA.
61



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 4
The project manager should have a strong background in housing finance, real estate
development, construction management and general management. He/she should be regularly
supported with about four or five medium term (6-12 months) and a number of short term (2-6
weeks) specialists in procurement and construction management, financial analysis and
management, mortgage banking, accounting and loan processing systems, market development,
auditing, planning, evaluation and control, law and training. A senior housing policy advisor
should be available on a short term basis for assistance to senior government leaders on sensitive
high level issues.
Figure H-1 is the proposed organization chart for the NHA, and Figure H-1 its Departmental
Tasks Matrix. They illustrate the variety of functional advice that the Agency will need. In
addition, translation and language training assistance will needed, at least at first.
As detailed in the Proposed Organization Chart, the NHA would have five operating sections:
Operations, Marketing, Finance & Administration, Planning & Budgeting and Legal. It would
also have a Controller and a Project Evaluation Committee. The Departmental Task Matrix
specifies seven parts to the process that the NHA will undergo: Planning & Monitoring,
Promotion of the NHA, Contracting of Construction Work, Controlled Disbursement of Funds,
Sale of Housing Units, Collection of Payments from Buyers and Evaluation of Experience. It
further identifies several stages within each part of the process. Few of these functions currently
exist and the current or potential staff members have little experience with most of the steps in
this process.
Specific training and technology transfer needs will have to be identified, a training and staff
development plan developed, and an extensive training program implemented. This effort would
require the initial assistance of one medium term advisor to establish the program and then
several short term training experts.
Proposed Job Descriptions
Medium Term Advisors
Banking and Fimance Specialist
-   Advise on internal financial policy and controls
-   Establish credit policies and controls
-   Advise on, develop viable loan term financial plans
-   Identify training and development needs for Albanian financial personnel in any
department of the NHA.
-   Identify and obtain short term advisors needed, e.g. in accounting, financial systems,
loan processing systems, mortgage and credit law, etc.
Procurement, Planning, Housing Operations Management Specialist
-   Advise on establishment of competitive bidding procedures
-   Advise on and review 2rocurement contracts and procedures
62



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 4
- Advise on land use planning, acquisition management, contractor specifications, costing,
building codes, contractor management, etc.
- Identify training and development needs of housing operations personnel.
- Identify and obtain short term advisors as needed.
Marketing Management Specialist
-   Assist in housing market research
-   Help promote NHA activities and develop programs to market housing units
-   Advise on private sector marketing policies
-   Research impact marketing and promotion activities
-   Identify training and development needs of marketing personnel.
-   Identify and obtain short term advisors as needed.
Computer, MIS and Controls Specialist
-   Identify and develop basic operating and management information system needs of the
NHA
-   Develop information on computer or other equipment needs of the NHA
- Help identify and develop internal control systems
-   Identify training and development needs of systems and operations personnel.
-   Identify and obtain short term advisors as needed.
Legal Specialist
-   Identify legal matters to be addressed in the development of NHA and establishment of
a facility for private sector housing construction and sales, including negotiating final
transactions, administration of property and condominium plans development.
-   Help develop standard documentation for all phases of lending
-   Develop tendering and contracting documentation and legal procedures
-   Develop housing sales contracts and related documents and procedures
-   Identify training and development needs of legal personnel.
-   Identify and obtain short term advisors as needed.
-   Advise the Project Manager / General Manager and the Board of Directors on legal
issues relating to the organization and management of NHA.
63



ANNEX D.1
Page 1 of 3
TABLE D.1: PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION ENTERFISES IN 1993
Workers                    Work
as of        Year       Volume
No.                  Enterprise                31.12.92    EstabUshed   lek mill
1.     NN Berat                                   83          1955          46
2.     NN Porti Durres                           315          1958          157
3.     NN Kob.Metalurgj.Elbasan                  478          1960         239
4.     NN H/C Banje                              860          1960         1000
5.     NN Rruga Elbasan                          601          1957         250
6.     NN Fier                                   251          1958         125
7.     NN Nr. 1 Gramrsh                          160          1955          80
8.     N Fier                                    503          1957          50
9.     NK Nr.2 Gramsh                             110         1959          55
10.    NN Gjirokaster                            188          1960          90
iI.    NN Kavaje                                 110          1957          64
12.    NN Erseke                                  60          1956          38
13.    NN Nr. 1 Kor98                            133          1958          66
14.    NN Nr.2 Korge                             139          1957          69
15.    NN Lag                                    280          1960         140
16.    NN Lag                                    172          1950          86
17.    NN H/Udha Lag                             340          1954         170
18.    NN Lezh6                                  355          1953         170
19.    NN Librazhd                               185          1956          92
20.    NN Lushnje                                 118         1954          58
21.    NN Ballsh                                  168         1960          84
22.    NN Mat                                    613          1955          70
23.    NN Mirdit6                                140          1957          60
24.    NN Permet                                  96          1955          40
64



ANNEX D.1
Page 2 of 3
TABLE D.1: PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION ENTERPISES IN 1993
Workers                    Work
as of        Year       Volume
No.                  Enterprise                31.12.92    Established   lek mill
25.    NN Pogradec                                330          1958         160
26.    NN Puke                                     52          1954          25
27.    NN Sarande                                 104          1959          52
28.    NN Skrapar                                 110          1956          55
29.    NN Polican                                  20          1958          15
30.    NN Rruga Shkod6r                           150          1960          75
31.    NN Tepelene                                 51          1958          25
32.    NN Nr.l Tirane                              69          1956          40
33.    NN Nr.2 Tirane                              94          1952          47
34.    NN Nr.3 Tirane                             100          1954          50
35.    NN Nr.4 Tiranl                             160          1955          80
36.    NN Ura Tirane                              150          1955          75
37.    NN Hidroteknike Tirane                      80          1957          50
38.    NN Tensioni LarE Tirane                    149          1950          70
39.    NN Kukes                                   435          1955         190
40.    NN "ALMAK" Tiran6                          222          1960         110
41.    NN Banesa Berat                             81          1958          47
42.    NN Banesa Durres                           196          1955         115
43.    NN Banesa Tirane                           195          1957         200
44.    NN Banesa Tirane                           257          1958         128
45.    NN Banesa Vlore                            239          1956         119
46.    NN Nr. 1 Estetika" Elbasan                 158          1958          79
47.    NN Nr.2 "Progresi"                         209          1960         104
48.    NN Nr.l Tirang                             153          1958          80
65



ANNEX D.1
Page 3 of 3
TABLE D.1: PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION ENTERPRISES IN 1993
Workers                    Work
as of        Year        Volume
No.                  Enterprise                 31.12.92    Established   lek mlll
49.    NN Nr.3 Tirane                              80          1958          40
50.    NN Nr.2 "Perendimii Tirane                  96          1955          48
51.    NN Nr.4 "Elbasani Tirane                    35          1956          20
52.    NN 'Dibra Tirane                            98          1960          49
53.    NN Kuqov6                                  130          1956          76
54.    NN Bulqize                                 271          1955          60
55.    NN Diber                                    65          1950          38
56.    NN Durres                                  186          1955         109
57.    NN Nr. 1 Elbasan                           124          1957          60
58.    NN Nr.2 Elbasan                            164          1954          82
59.    NN Nr.3 Elbasan                            133          1956          67
60.    NN Patos                                   110          1955          30
61.    NN Kruje                                   193          1958          96
62.    NN Krume                                    43          1957          20
63.    NN Prenjas                                  67          1959          30
64.    NN FushE Arrez                             53           1960          25
65.    NN Shkoder                                 212          1955          106
66.    NN Tropoje                                  41          1950          20
67.    NN VlorE                                   278          1952         130
68.    NN Suvatimeve Tirane                       140          1953          75
Total                                            12.741                    Lo
66



ANNEX D
TABLE D.2: PRIVATE BUILDING CONTRACTORS IN TIRANA
Year          Personal            Transport                                            Investment
No.          Firm              Chairman         Established   Workers   Administ.   Equipment   Other Equipment           Experience         000 lek
I    NDERALB              Donard Stermasi         1991        160           10        70 ton     cement mixer 0.5   Remodelling Italian     70,000
ton auto crane     Embassy
cemtent miixer 3   K6mbFAorF Library
Hotels, Office
Buildings
2    SON                  Gene Bejleri             1992        70           10        26 ton      I ton crane        Housing, Villas        27,000
cement mixer
generator
3    KORCA                Petrit Sin&              1992        65            6        25 ton      I ton crane c.2    Apartment, Hotel       40,000
ofi                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. 5ton crane I
4    ND.ND.SOC.KUL   Niko Drushku                  1992        56            4         32 ton     small crane        Military Hospital      12,000
5    NDERTIMVILA          Fatos Pustina            1991        55            5        21 ton     auto crane          Housing 5 floors       24,000
|                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fixed crane
6    BARLEII              Leonard Nano             1992        50            5         14 ton     NA                 NA                      2,000
7    GOLIKU               Kamber Minai             1991        45            5         15 toi    crane tower         Housig, Schools        12,000
2 small cranes
8    RUSI                 Nuri Rusi                1992        45            3         16 ton    small crane        Housing                 15,000
9    AGSEP                Agton Bregu              1992        40            2         26 ton     2 pionier cranes    Kindergarden, Villa   60,000
10    GIE-KO              Giorgi Korcari           1992         40           6         22 ton     I pionier crane    Private Housing         4,000
11    XHO-AL              Aldo Kaponari            1992         30           3         32 ton     cement mixer       Private Villas            NA
other equipment
12    ASP VIERO           Spiro Vjero              1992         22           5          NA        NA                 Two-story Villa         4,000
13    ADRI                Muharem Bregu            1992         20           2          6 ton     I small crane      Office Building         10,000
AIR ALB
AIRLANE 



ANNEX D.3
TABLE D.3: ENTERPRISES OFFERED FOR PRJVATIZATION ON JANUARY 23, 1993
Distnict            on  Enternnis[                    Buildins Materials Entrinses
Bamt          Constuction Enterprie
Buprali       Construction Enterprise                 Brick Factory
Duffes
Elbasani      Construction Enterprise  Shkumbini-
Costruction Entepriwse  Esttika No.2
Building Matrial Enerpris
Brick Factory No. 1
Brick Factory No. 2
Fier          Consction Entrprise
CosAction Entrprioe in Fier            Brick Factory in Kras
Constnuction Enterprise in Mifol       Wood Processing Enterprise
Gramah        Constction Enterprise No. 1
Construction Enterprise No. 2
Kavaja        C           Entrpris                    Gla  Factory
Decorative Materials Workshop
Carpet Enterprise
Korc-                                                 Brick silicate factory
Old Brick FPaory
Ston Qurry
KnIje         Costucton Enterprise
3uls          Csfon Enterpriw
Kukova
Brick Factory
Brick Fty
Lac           C ction Enterprise
Iibnrzhd      Co on Entpri
Lushuje                                               Stone and Marble Enterprise
Pet           Cocon Enterpriw                         Wood Proceaing Enterprise
Brick Factory
Pogmd         C           Entepriw
Saranda       cmnsucti< n  Enterprise                 Building Materials Enterpris
Sbr           Casuction Entrpris  Corovode
Tq"elm                                                Menaliaj Brick Factory
Construction Enterpri  Polican
MUn           Constcion Entepriw No. I                Marble Enterprise
Costructn Entepris  No. 3              Grinite Workhop in Qafe-Pria
Constructo  pEnteprise No. 4           Windows and Doors PFAory
Vim           Clouction Enteprise No. 1               Brick Factory
Costuction Enterprise No. 2            Chairs worhhop, Carpt factory
Stone Quaffy
68



ANNEX E.1
CONSTRUCTION COSTS UPDATE
TABLE E.1: STATE CONSTRUCTION ENTERPRISES
(March 1993)
To update construction costs per m2 we have taken the average of some recent
contracts signed by the NHA for works in Tirana and Durres. These prices were obtained
by the NHA through direct negotiations with the state building enterprises which had been
awarded the original construction contracts. Before awarding the contracts, the NHA has
verified the congruence of of the quoted prices with internal estimates made by its technical
office.
Unit Cogts $ xm           |
Location             Enterprise    Gross Floor Area   Net Floor Area
1.  Tirna/Godina M. Keta 3       Altmuar/TR          $120               $157
2.  Tirana/Kombinat 88/9 +88/4    N.N.1I/TR          $113               $147
3.  Tians/Rup  S. Pasha tip.88   Unspecified         $115               $149
4.  Titans/Ruga S. Pas tip.88/la   Unspecified       $123               $160
S.  Duw/Lungomar                 N.N.Durres          $124               $162
6.  Durres/Unspecified           N.N.BlDurrea        $113               $147
7.  Durres/Hospital Vicinity     Unspecified         $124               $161
Aveage cost                                   $119                $155
69



ANNEX E.2
CONSTRUCTION COST UPDATE
TABLE E.2: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION ENTERPRISES
(March 1993 Prices)
At the Mission's request, the NHA has obtained price quotations for 15 basic categories of works
from the six largest enterprises in Tirana. The average value of the quotations is compared with recent
price experience of the NHA (last two columns).
a       b        c      d       e       r    Aveage            NHA
1. Earthworks       Lk/mz            145       90      227    189      140   259     175         110 - 160
2. Foundations      *              2,714     3,200   3,504  3,200   3,200 3,245   3,211             4,900
3. Structural Concrete             6,830     4,100   6,389  7,384   5,500 6,225   6,236       S,000 - ,500
4. Iron for concrete   Lk/ton     95,181   105,000  80,893 72,058  70,000 60,000  79,S33           95,000
5. Masonry wails                   4,521     5,100   5,394  3,986   4,300 5,050    4,742            4,000
6. Floor (SAP type)  11 cm Lk/m2     980     1,100   1,250  1,083        -     -   1,000      800 + 1,000
7. Floor (prestressed)              1,178      980     740    423        - 2,150    966              1,300
8. Flooring (terr. tiles)            450       550     789    672      540   611     593              700
9. Extr. plaster (norm)              210       180     220    395      250   260     235              150
10. Extr. plaster (extra)            360       290     448    384        -   653      387             360
11. Windows (wood)                  3,098     1,700   3,000  2,728   1,550 3,725   2,630    1,700 + 2,200
12. Doors (wood)                    3,053     3,900   3,850  3,132   3,102 4,042   3,496             4,100
13. Electrical system for 60 m2DU       -        -  16,200       -       -      -  16,200           16,300
14. Mechanical (pipes & fixtures)       -         -  40,600      -        -     -  40,600           18,000
15. Wall Painting    Lk/m2            160       90      96    114       75   150      112              120
16. Enterprise OH & Profit            15%       14%    24%      15%    15%    15%    16%              19%
70



ANNEX E.3
CONSTRUCTION COST UPDATE
TABLE E.3: CONSTRUCTION COSTS BY CATEGORY OF WORKS AND
DIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT
This table gives the average values resulting from analysis of several recent NRA contracts. The
cost breakdown into labor, equipment and materials components for each main activity is derived from
official sources. The last column gives the current percentage of imported materials: the top figures (light
font) give the percentage of foreign exchange relative to the cost of work in each category (horizontal
breakdown) and the bottom lines (bold font) the relative participation in each category of work in total
foreign exchange requirements (vertical breakdown).
%                      Equipmmi                     Foreig
Work Category          of Total     Labor        and Fuel      Mials       Component
1   SITE & FOUNDATION                 6           22.0%          6.0%         72.0%
worlo                                          1.3           0.4          4.3
2   SmRUCTURE                                      5.0%           5.0%        90.0%         22.0%
walls, colums                   SS             2.5           2.7          49.7          11.8
3   ROOF                                           3.0%           2.0%        95.0%         10.0%
roofing, drains, gutte           3             0.1           0.1          2.8            03
4   EXTERIOR CLOSURES                             12.0%           0.1%        87.0%          8.0%
windows, doors                   9             1.1            -            7.8           0.7
5   EXTERIOR FINISH                               29.0%           9.0%        62.0%          -
plaster, sttcco                  3             0.9           0.3           1.9
6   INTERIOR FINISH                               10.0%           8.0%        82.0%         13.0%
plaster, tiles, floor            13            1.8           1.S          14.7           23
7   MECHANICAL                                    10.0%           -           90.0%         50.0%
plumbiilg, fixures                4            0.4                         3.6           2.0
8   ELECTRICAL                                    11.0%           .           89.0%         50.0%
wiring, fixure                   2             0.2                         1.8           1.0
A      BASE COSTS                   100            83             5.0         86.7          181
9   PHYSICAL INCREASE                 S
10  PRICE EXCALATION                 1S
11 CONTRACTOR'S
OH & PROFIT                      1S
B      TOTAL COST                   139
71



inDOMATiVE - .j. - -   PACKAGES: STATE EsNTERIoSE HOUSNG
Contract Packages
Number       Loss    50.000      Loeu
NuMber  PeCnt                  Dollars Needed For Conmplelon                   of     Than         to      Than
Dnlt               of Unis  kn*ved           Total    Per Unk  Per m 2   Per 20 DU          Packages    50.000   100,000   100.000
1.  Bwat                   143      53%        685.000       4,790      64       95,804       7        7                    7
2.   uiqkle                 90      48%        420.000       4,667      62       93,333        4        4                   4
3.  DeMvn                   24      84%         33,000       1.375       18      27,500        1        1         1
4.  DevoN                    0        0%            0           0         0           0        0        0
5.  Dter                    79       83%       148,000       1.848       25      36.962        4        4         4
6.  Durr                   172       25%     1,020.000       5.930       79     118.605        9        9                             9
7.  Elasa~n                316      45%      1.436.000       4,544      61       90.886       16       16                  16
8.  FPer                   155      37%        827,000       5,335       71     106.710        8        8                             8
9.  Gprokauser             135       96%        30.000         222        3       4.444        7        7         7
10. Gramsh                  53      33%        330.000       6.226      83      124,528        3        3                             3
11. Kavaja                 140      71%        368,000       2.629      35       52,571        7        7                   7
12. Koko"                   80      61%        299,000       3.738      50       74,750        4        4                   4
13. Korce                  323      39%      1.615.000       5,000       67     100.000       16       16                  16
14. Krufe                  100      58%        345.000       3,450      46       69,000        5        5                   5
r  15. Kumm (us)                30      75%         60,000       2.000      27       40.000        2        2         2
16. Kuonco                  80      58%        320.000       4.000       53      80.000        4        4                   4
17. Kukes                   75      38%        370.000       4,933       66      96S67         4        4                   4
18. Lac                    170      61%        618,000       3,635       48      72.706        9        9                   9
19. Lezha                   82      64%        270,000       3,293       44      65.854        4        4                   4
20. Lbrazhd                126      48%        580.000       4,603       61      92.063        6        6                   6
21. Lushnj                  40       44%       230.000       5,750       77      115.000       2        2                              2
22. Malakasteralsh)          0        0%            0            0        0           0        0        0
23  MAWe  Madhe              0       0%             0            0        0           0        0        0
24. Mat                    176       58%       647,000       3,676       49      73,523        9        9                   9
25. MIrdlto                144      66%        443,000       3,076       41      61,528        7        7                    7
26. Poqln                   45      61%        164,000       3,644       49      72.889        2        2                    2
27. Pormet                  56       38%       332,000       5.929       79      118,571       3        3                              3
28. Pogradoc               144       52%       646,000       4.486       60      89,722        7        7                    7
29. Puke                   116       29%       750,000       6,466       86      129.310       6        6                              6
30. Sarande                 76       95%        31.000         408        5       8,158        4        4         4
31. Shkoder                381       30%     2,177,000       5,714       76      114,278      19       19                             19
32. Skrapar                144       53%       648,000       4.500       60       90,000       7        7                    7
33. Tepelene                86       57%       304.000       3,535       47       70,698       4        4                    4
34. Tlrane                 860       57%      3.266,000      3,796       51       75.953      43       43                   43                   *
35. Tropole                 73       67%       190,000       2.603       35      52.055        4        4                    4
38  VIr'                   152       18%      1,046,000      6,882       92      137.632       8        8                              8
Tota                 4,866      49%    20.64,000         4,243       57      84,858      243      243        17        170        56



INDICATIVE PROCUREMENT PACKAGES: ECONOMIC ENTERPRISE HOUSING
Contract Packages
Number       Less    50,000   100.000      Less
Number      Percent             Dollars Needed For Completion           of     Than         to       to      Than
Dltrk                  of Units    Invested      Total   Per UnIt   Per m 2 Per 20 DU    Package     50,000   100.000   150,000   150.000
1.  Berat                     375          38%   2,325,000     6.200        83   124,000          19                             19
2.  Buiqlze                     0           0%           0         0         0         0           0
3.  DeMne                       0           0%           0         0         0         0           0
4.  Devoll                      0           0%           0         0         0         0           0
5.  Dlber                     211          46%   1.139.000     5.398        72   107,962          11                             11
6.  Durres                    721          48%   3,749.000     5,200        69   103.994          36                             36
7.  Elbasan                   294          35%    1,923,000    6,541        67   130,816          15                             15
B.  Fler                      542          30%   3,802,000     7,015        94   140.295          27                             27
9.  Gjlrokaster               179          46%     967,000     5,402        72   108,045           9                              9
10. Gramsh                     97          32%     661,000     6,814        91   136,289           5                              5
11. Kavaja                    129          46%     697,000     5,403        72   108,062           6                              6
12. Koonr.                      0           0%          0          0         0         0           0
13. Korce                     220          54%    1.012.000    4,600        61    92.000          11                   11
14. Krufe                     100          42%     580,000     5,800        77   116.000           5                              5
-   15. Krum (Hus)                   0          0%           0         0         0          0           0
I6  Kucove                     80          60%     320.000     4,000        53    80,000           4                   4
17. Kukes                     270          21%   2,133.000     7,900       105   158,000          14                                       14
1&  Lac                         0           0%          0          0         0         0           0
19. Lezhe                      40          55%     180,000     4,500        80    90,000           2                   2
20. Lbxazhd                     0           0%           0         0         0         0           0
21. Lushnie                   376          55%    2.369,000    6.301        84   126.011          19                             19
22. Mallakaster(Ballsh)        30          45%     165,000     5,500        73   110.000           2                              2
23. Maleea Madhe                0           0%A          0         0         0         0           0
24. Mat                       147          60%     588,000     4,000        53    80.000           7                   7
25. Mhdke                       0           0%           0         0         0         0           0
26. Peqln                       0           0%          0          0         0         0           0
27. Permet                     54          72%     151,000     2,796        37    55,926           3                    3
28. Pooradec                   50          55%     225,000     4,500        60    90,000           3                   3
29. Puke                        0           0%          0          0         0         0           0
30. Sarande                   137          50%     685.000     5,000        67   100.000           7                              7
31. Shkoder                   342          42%    1.984,000    5,801        77   116,023          17                             17
32. Skrat                      76          42%     441,000     5,803        77   116,053           4                              4
33. Tepelene                  270          14%   2.330,000     8,630       115   172,593          14                                       14
34. Tlrane                   2.049         47%  10,820,000     5.281        70   105.612         102                            102
35. Tropole                    84          60%     336,000     4,000        53    80,000           4                   4
36  Vlore                     550          26%   4.070,000     7.400        99   148.000          28                             28
Total                   7,423         58%  43,652,000      5,881        78   117,613         371                  34       310        27



ANNEX G
Page 1 of 3
NEW NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY CHARTER
Decree No. 198, Dated May 4, 1993
RepubUc of Albania
Coundl of Mlinisters
For the realization of economic reform in the housing sector, upon the proposal of the Ministry
of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment, Ministry of Finance and Economy, and the Council
of Ministers.
DECIDED:
Mme following supersedes Decree No. 431, dated December 10, 1992, on the Establishment ot the
National Housing Agency.
Article 1 - Creation or the Agency
1.1 The National Housing Agency (hereinafter 'Agency') is hereby founded as a juridical person and
state enterprise, in accordance with the Law on State Enterprises, Law No. 7582, dated July 13, 1992.
'he Agency is an independent administrative agency of the Ministry of Construction, Housing and
Territory Adjustment, and is located in the City of Tirana.
1.2   The Agency is created for purposes of the financing, allocation, and administration of certain
dwelling houses within the Republic of Albania.
Article 2 - Functions of the Agency
2.1     The Agency has the following powers and responsibilities:
(a) financing and entering into contracts for the construction, completion, and sale of
dwellings;
(b) establishing and implementing technical specifications for the construction and
completion of dwellings;
(c) establishing and implementing competitive bidding procedures for use in contracting
for the construction and completion of dwellings;
(d) entering into and complying with agreements to acquire funds to carry out its
activities, on such terms as approved by the Board of Directors;
(e) providing loans to eligible purchasers, including private individuals, of dwellings
completed with funds provided by the Agency;
74



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 3
(f) cooperating with districts, municipalities, and other agencies of the Ministry of
Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment in the performance of their
responsibilities relating to housing;
(g) on behalf of the state, acting as the founder of condominiums to establish
condominiums in state-owned housing;
(h) representing the state in the association of unit owners in condominiums established
in state-owned housing;
(i) conducting studies of design and construction norms; and
0 conducting studies of housing needs and allocations.
Article 3 - Board of Directors; General Manager
3.1 The Board of Directors shall consist of five (5) persons. The Minister of Construction, Housing
and Territory Adjustment shall serve as an ex fkiQ member of the Board of Directors. One director
shall be appointed by each of the following: the Ministry of Finance and Economy; the Ministry of
Work, Emigration, Social Assistance and Political Prisoners; the Albanian National Bank; and the
National Savings Bank.
3.2 The Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman from among its members.
3.3 The Board of Directors shall elect a General Manager, choosing among not less than two (2)
candidates nominated by the Minister of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment.
3.4 The Board of Directors shall appoint such persons as it deems to be necessary to carry out the rights
and duties of the Agency and perform the administrative functions of the Agency.
3.5 Such persons, including the General Manager, shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Article 4 - Sources of Funds
4.1 For the exclusive purpose of carrying out its powers and responsibilities, the Agency may acquire
and allocate funds from the following sources:
(a) revenues allocated to the agency in the budgets of the state and municipalities;
(b) revenues realized through loans or credits provided by domestic [Albanian] or foreign
financial institutions;
(c) revenues realized through grants provided by other domestic or foreign entities;
(d) revenues realized through investment of funds belonging to the Agency;
75



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 3
(e) revenues realized through the privatization of dwellings;
(f) revenues realized through the sale of dwellings; and
(g) whatever other revenue and fixed or movable assets which the Agency legally may
acquire.
Article 5 - Capitalization
5.1 The Agency's initial capital fund shall be five million (5,000,000) lek provided in a reserve fund
established by the Council of Ministers in 1992.
Article 6 - Financial Accountability
6.1 Annual accounts of the Agency shall be reviewed and certified by independent auditors, in
accordance with the Law of State Enterprises.
6.2 Each annual account, audited in accordance with paragraph 6.1, and an annual statement of the
financial activity of the Agency, approved by the Board of Directors, shall by provided to the Ministry
of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry
of Work, Emigration, Social Assistance and Political Prisoners, and the Council of Ministers.
63 Each annual account, audited in accordance with paragraph 6.1, and an annual statement of the
financial activity of the Agency shall be provided to each domestic or foreign financial institution or other
entity that provides loans, credits, or grants to the Agency.
Article 7 - Implementing Bylaws and Regulations
7.1 Implementing regulations and procedures for the Agency and any sub-departments or offices of the
Agency shall be established in Bylaws of the Agency, which shall be subject to the approval of the
Minister of Construction, Housing and Territory Adjustment.
Article 8 - Effective Date
8.1 This Decree comes into effect immediately.
PRIME MIENSTER
ALEKSANDER MEKSI
Date:
76



Albania - Housing Project
NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY - PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Managing Board                            External Audior |
Secretary                 -    GeraDirector                   |                 _Adv-is-o-ns  l
t     Cotrnitteeolle
D|t Director
G 3FINANCE &                             }
-4           ~~~ADMINISTRATION       OPE RATIONS              UDEIGMARKETING                               LEGAL
G       3en. Anla   Irjo                       Dt I           >     
{E3 {93 < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Controm| 
Cet Rleecy.        Technical ofic                                S      nputts
UM"~~~~~~Oeue
Tweeuare,Ceawunie SeWvic.
Condcn*ukanw~~~~>



ALBANIA NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY
DEPARTMENTAL TASKS MATRIX
* Principal responsibiliy                                                                                                                           + Co-responsibilty
PROCESS                                                       STAGES                                               INVOLVED DEPARTMENTS
Name               Description           Name               Description                       Activities                FA      OP      P&B    MKT    LEG
1.          Formulation of Action                                              *  keep into account kssons derived    +        +                +       +
PLANNING &          Programs for NHA        Planning     formulate 6 months roling      from prior experiences
MONITORING                                               investment programs         *  follow new policy guidelines         +       +       *        +       +
*  prepare six-month programs          +        +       *        +
*  ensure geographicsl distribution of  +       +       *        +
funds
1.2                                   e  follow up program impimentation     +        +       *        +
Monitoring    control implementation     0  write quarterly progress reports     +        +       *        +
*  write yearly evaluation reports     +        +       *        +
2.1                                   *  prioritize subprojectsr locations            +        +       0
-J                                                    Promotion    promotional activities      0  local promotion activities                    +       +                +
OD              2.           Public Information on                                             0  mass media publicity                          +       0        +
PROMOTION          NHA activities and                                               0  meetings & conferences                                0        +
contacts with
Beneficiaries          2.2                                    0  analyze market response                               +       0
Identification    market evaluations      0  preliminary lists of buyers                           +        0
*  capacity & wilingness to pay                         +        0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ______________ ______   ________________________ an atlysis
3.1                                   0  prepare subproject data 
Prepamtion    preliminary analysis        *  technical, financial, legal and     +        a                +       +
marketing information
*  first judgement of subproject       +        +       0        +       +
3.2                                   0  preprea ubproject documents          +       0        +       +        +
3.               Studies and          Approval    Project Evaluation           0  submit resul of apprmisals to        +       +        0       +        +
CONTRACT         Evaluations Conducive                  Committee Review               Project Evaluation Committee
to Subproject                                                 *  Project Evaluation Committee                          *
Contr cts                                                      Work                                                                          m
3.3                                   *  prepartion of contract documents             +                         *     X
Procurement   Tendering & Contracing      *  tendering and bid evaluation                          +                +
*  contract award                               0                        +
*t  performaknce bonds                 +        *+



ALBANIA NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY
DEPARTMENTAL TASKS MATRIX
* Princi respon ibilky                                                                                                                           + Co-responsibility
PROCESS                                                      STAGES                                              INVOLVED DEPARTMENTS
Name              Description           Nane               Decription                       Activities               PA       OP      P&B    MKT    LEG
4.1                                  0  Certification of Physal and         +        *                +
Supervision    Control of Development       Finncial Progress
4.2                                  *  Distribution of Applictions
Disburement   Disbursemcnt Applcations    *  Procesing & Paying Applications     +       0
0  Monitoring Budgetary Progre        + 
4.           Physical & Fuuncial        4.3                                   *  Variation Orders                                    +
DISBURSEMENT          Jmplcmentstion        Variation    Variation of Contractual    0  Technical, Financial Adjustments    +       *       +
Conditions                 0  Inflation Adjustment (if any)       o
4.4                                  *  Acceptance of Works
Compiction    Completion of Physical and   0  Verification of Variations                o
Financial Program          *  Liquidation of Balance              *       +
-'
5.1                                     Pricing Individual Dwellings        +       +        +       0
Marketing    Marketing                  *  Marketing Finished Dwellings                +                 S
*  Fonnation of Condominium                                     +       0
5.2                                   *  Individual Sale Contracts                                    +       o
5.            Sale of NHA-Built    Condominium   Condominium Organization   *  Issuance of Guarantees                                         +       o
SALE OP UNITS   DweUlings to Individual                                              *  Assisanee to Condominium                                     *       +
Buyers Organized in
Condominium
5.3                                  *  Supervision & PoDow up of the                +                *       +
Allcation    Aleoation of Individual       Allocation Process
Dwellings                  0  Calculation of Condominal Shar      +                        *       +
Including State Charges
0a



ALBANIA NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY
DEPARTMENTAL TASKS MATRIX
* Principal rsposibilky                                                                                                                      + Co-reaponalbiily
PROCESS                                                     STAGES                                           INVOLVED DEPART1MENTS
Name              Description          Name               Description                    Actvkw                   FA      OP      PJB    MKT    LEG
6.1 Cost    Downpsyment&               0  Progru of Cost Reoovry                                     +       +
Recovery    Amottizao.                 0  Control & Polbw Up of Paymns                               +       +
* Dowpymecta Collction               -
6.           Codt Recovey km           6.2                  *                  Amotizaio Schedules o
REPAYMENT         l         pwjim         Colctio     Cofectiom                     Collction of Amorlinatie |
*Judiciary Colletion+ 
6.3                                     A fAppt1in forLouCb. ing
Lan  Cbsg   Fnl Paymeat                  a Nodificatio of Loam Cosig          S                                +
*  FeigofSca                                                          +
7.1 Productu   Froduct00perstion         *  Defiring Evahatim Crkera          +        +       *       +       +
Opauuioms    Evabotiom                  S Choosig evalution Sample                    +       0       +
7.2                                  * Continuing Evaluatio Pollw Up               +       .       +
Mookoring          Aea Impac    Am Specific Evaluation  s     Ana Specific Evaluation                    +   .            +
of
7. EVALUATION    Contrating Markting
A Cost Reovery          7.3                                  0 Evaluating Mae Impad                                + 
erie_               Muakt       Impab  Evalation          * L1ms. of Experience Reports         +       +        *       +       +
7.4                                  * Comprehcrive EvabutionRiport       +       +        *       +       +
Gkbl bhpac   Gbal EvaWation
n
Mou  _ .n1



ANNEX I
Albania Housing Project: AFFORDABILITY ANALYSIS
TABLE Ll: SAMPLE HOUSEOIDS' INCOME
Husband                    2,640a           3,400f           3,400b           5,500s           6,5SOc
Wife                       1,740g           1,740g           2,640f           2,640,            2,640f
Grandfadier                    -            1,580e           1,580            1,580             1,740
Gnndmother                     -             1,580             200            1,580g           1,5800
Child No. 1                 200g              200             200g             200g              200
Child No. 2                 200g              200             200g              200              200g
Household Income           4,780            8,700            8,220            11,700           12,920
a Workers in Budgetary lstitutions        - 2,6401eks   a Averp Urban Pensio                 - l48Olsks
b Worers in Non-Budgetary Institutions     - 3,0201eks   f Social Ance (Released Soldier,   - 1,7401db
c Militay in Active Service                - 3,400 lebs    Unemployed, Political Ex-Prisoe)
d Private Sector Workers (unsitlled)    2,000/4000 leks   g Dependent's Compention            -  200 leks
(skilled)       up to 7,000 lecs
TABLE I.2: HOUSING PURCHASE TEEY CAN AFFORD
with 5 % downpayment and 25 year loan at 3%
ONE         TWO      LIVING ROOM    LIVING ROOM           LIVING ROOM
EXTRA       EXTRA            +                  +                  +
ROOM        ROOMS    1 BED ROOM          2 BEDROOMS         3 BEDROOMS
Net Arean mz                +12        +24                47                 61                 72
Gros Area m2                +16        +32                64                 82                 93
Coat ($130 X m2)           6,400      8,200            6,400              8,200              9,300
Ma TradeIn Value **          **         **
50% Sunk Cost Grnt        (5,000)    (5,000)          (3,200)             (3,770)            (4,280)
Buyers Cost                1,400      3,400             3,200             4,430              S,020
5% Downpayment                70        170              160                220                250
Loan Amount                1,330      3,230             3,040             4,210               4,770
Monthly Debt Service           6.30      15.30            14.40              20.00              22.60
(% of bncome)                 15.0       17.5             17.5               17.5               17.5
%          %                s                  %                  96
Dollar lome                  42.00       87.50            82.40             114.30             129.10
Leks Debt Service           630       1,530             1,440             2,000               2,260
Leks Income                4,200      8,750             8,240             11,430             12,910
" Max Trade-In value set at 75 % of the replacement cost of a one-bedrom  flat.
*      Sunk Cost Grant corresponds to the aveag investment expenditurs already ma& in the unfimishod
partments by the State (soe footnote 25) or about 50% of the coreponding replacemt costs.
81



ANNEX J. 1
Page 1 of 2
National Housing Agency of Albania
FINANCIAL MODEL ASSUMPTIONS, MARCH 10, 19931
The Model developed for the financial review of the potential sources and uses of funds of the National
Housing Agency (NHA) is based on data gathered during the visit of the joint IDA - USAID mission to
Albania from February 24 to March 6, 1993 and from data gathered during previous missions. It covers
the seven year period from 1993 through 1999 which corresponds to the tenor of the loans to the NHA
from two Albanian banks and the period during which work will be completed on most housing units left
unfinished by the Communist regime.
Basic Assumptions: The model assumes that the NRA has only four sources of funds: Loan proceeds,
from the two domestic loans it has received and from the contemplated IDA loan, subsidies from the
Albanian State Budget, the proceeds assigned to it from the privatization of state owned housing units and
sales of housing units completed by firms working under NHA contract. The model limits the use of
NHA funds to paying construction costs, principal and interest on loans and a small amount of operating
and administrative costs, at present mainly wages.
The model is in dollars for convenience. All existing Lek amounts are converted at Lek 100 equals
$1.00. The World Bank requires that term sales of units it finances must maintain their value.
Therefore, the model assumes that units constructed for and sold by the Agency will be denominated in
the Lek equivalent of the Dollar. The effects of projected inflation are shown directly on all other Lek
amounts based on the working assumption that the changes in the Dollar/Lek exchange rate will equal
the Albanian inflation rate.
Key Variables: The model is built to show the effects of changes in any of its assumptions on the
NHA's cash flow, but it most easily shows the effects of changes in the drawdown of the loans, in annmal
construction costs, in the inflation rate, in the amount of total privatization sales and in the percentage
proportion of cash to term payment sales.
Specific Calculations - Sources
Loans: The loans Lek 1 billion from the National Bank and Lek 300 million from the Savings Bank are
entered according to their terms as described by NHA staff. Those terms and the schedules of principal
and interest payments are shown on spreadsheets P57 and P96 respectively. The National Housing
Agency must present construction payment documents in order to draw funds from either loan; so the
amounts drawn were adjusted to just cover projected construction costs. As there is a limit on what can
be effectively spent in 1993 and 1994 and therefore what can be drawn against the domestic loans, the
major dollar value reduction in the proceeds from these loans from inflation is reflected in the model.
The proposed IDA loan of up to $15 million is to the Government of Albania which in turn will lend die
proceeds to the NHA. On loan closing date, anticipated in the third or fourth quarter of 1993,
$1,500,000 will be paid to the National Bank of Albania. All additional proceeds can only be disbursed
against specific documentation, as required by IDA, of construction payments. This assumes
Prepared by Edward Everett Post, Financil Consultant
82



ANNEX J.1
Page 2 of 2
that the National Bank will only disburse the $1.5 million to the NHA when it is needed in 1994 and that
there will be no major delay between construction disbursements and related drawings on the IDA loan.
Subsidy from the State Budget: Government subsidies are limited to the payment by the Ministry of
Finance of the interest on the two domestic loans in accordance with the agreement signed between that
Ministry and the NHA. In this model, the subsidy amount exactly matches the amount of interest being
paid so there is no effect on other sources and uses of funds. The start up capital for the NHA provided
in the reserve fund is assumed to be used in 1992 and the first quarter of 1993.
Proceeds of Privatization: Based on the advice of a previous IDA - USAID mission, the Albanian
parliament passed a law in December 1992 which will allow the occupants of over 200,000 state owned
housing units to purchase them. Booklets containing this law and supporting regulations specifying how
the price for each unit will be determined, the steps required for a purchase and the options (cash
purchase, term purchase or continued rental) have been printed and distributed to current occupants. A
privatization commission, funded by the state budget, has been established and has started to train its new
field agents.
The proceeds of the privatization are to be completely allocated to the NHA. Under the schedule
established for the privatization, sales should be finalized in 1993, but the commission is already behind
schedule. Therefore the model assumes that half of the sales will be completed in 1993 and half in 1994.
A model of the privatization was not built, but based on calculations made by a previous mission and by
Ministry of Construction officials the total privatization sales could range from more than Lek 2 billion
to about Lek 1.3 billion. The latter figure, determined by the last mission, is used in this model.
The purchase price of each unit is small and the buyers have the option of paying cash and getting a
12.5% discount or paying over time. There is a minimum monthly payment that effectively limits the
tenor of the time payment option to ten years. The payments are indexed to the annual inflation
adjustments to salaries of government employees.
It is the strong opinion of the Ministry of Construction/NHA officials that a large percentage of the
purchasers will choose the cash option because the amount is relatively small and because the time
payments leave them obligated to the State.
The model shows that changes in the percentage of cash sales have a major impact on NHA funding.
The time payments will not be collected directly by the NHA but by the 'Banesa's' which are the local
rental management units of the Ministry of Construction. As the Banesa's are very underfunded, the
model shows a high loss on these payments.
The model shows that inflation will erode the value of cash sales and severely reduce the value of the
time payments over time. It also shows that, under any scenario, the privatization will provide a major
source of funds for the NHA in 1993 and 1994.
83



SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS                                                                                 NATIONAL HOUS  AGENCY - ALBAN
AMAIUI * ThOWSSI OF W OOUAM
SoU4CES                                           TOTAL         1993        194         1            1998        1W97       low         19W
LOANS AND DkTE COMMrrED
FROM NATKNAL BAW -11/3                            10,000       1,034       2,287          0            0           0           0           0
FROM SAVINGS ANK-11192                             3.000       1.442          0           0            0           0           0           0
FROM WORLD SANMIDA - ?#1S                         15,000          0        4,000       6.000       5.00            0           0           0
ICASH FROM BANKS                             1     26.0001      2.476       6,287       600o         5,000          0           0           0
SUBSIDY FROM STATE BUDGET
FESERVE FUND (USED N 199293)                         50          30
INTEREST SUBSDIES                                  3,968        489         941        1,450         712         241         100          35
CASH FROM STATE BUDGET    _                        4,0181        519         941        1,450        712         241          100          35
PROCEEDS OF PRFIATZATION
TOTAL PRVATIZATION SALES                          13236        6,364        3.857
- CASH SALES                        25%            3,310        796          482
- DISCOUNT ON CASH SALES           12.5%            (414)                    (60)          0           0           0           0           0
-10YEARPAYMENT SALES                75%            9,929        430         234          132          77          46          29          18
-LOSSES. LOAN NON-PAYMENT           50%           (4,964)       (215)       (117)        PM          (38)         (23)        (14)         9
CASH FROM PPWVATIZATION                            7.860 1       911         539          66          38          23           14           9
00
4.-
SALES. UNITS IN CONSTRUCTION
TOTAL SALES FEALIZED                              44,588       2,048       6,565       11,608      17,303      21,615      27,387      35,066
*CASHSALES                         25%           11,147         512        1.641       2.902       4.326       5.404       6.847       8.766
* 25 YEAR SALES PAYMENTS           75%           33.441          58         245         576        1.069       1,685       2.468       3.465
-MINIMUMDOWNPAYMENT                 5%            1.672          77         246         435         649         811        1,07         1.315
NCOME ON FANCING SALES
AT3% FOR25YEAR                                   25,080          42         175         406         744        1,125       1.666        2,312
LOSS--LOAN NON-PAYMENT              10%          (5.88).        (10)        142)         (9        (181)        (2)         (413)        O8)
CASH FROM DU IN CONSTRUCTION                      65,4861        679        2.266       4.221       6,608       8,744      11;593       15.281 
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                           105,366       4,585       10,033      11,737      12.358       9,009       11.707      15.325
SALES OF UNITS NOW N CONSTRwCON
J OF DWELLNG UNITS PA              7.400
- COST OF CONSTRUCTION                            43.550
- MARN  ON EACH SALE                2%              871                                                                                                    d
- LAND PRICE PER DU                 22.50           167                                                                                                    b
TOTAL SALES MADE                                  44.586       4,095       9,035      10,085       11 390       8,626      11.544      15.357             t
NdG: Al Sours ecpt to DA kmn wid fu C_h from S1  of LkUts hI Coamtuction          d h Lm.                                                                  0



SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS                                                                               NATIONAL HOUSINGAENCY- ALBANIA
miOUWES U THWIM OF US WiUAM
USES OF FUNOS                               TOTAL              1993        1994        1995        1996        1997        1996        1999
CONSTRUCTION COSTS
UNITS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
DU UNDER CONSTRUCTION                 7.400      43.550       4,000       8,825       9.850       11.125      8.425       11,275      15.000
OTHER CONSTRUCTION COSTS
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS                          43.550       4,000       8,825       9,850      11,125       8,425      11,275      15,000
DEBT SERMCE
NATIONAL BANK LOAN
-PRINCIPAL                                       10,000          0           0         146         235         117          61          5S
INTEREST, 5% Mghi                                1,680          0          40          89          48          18           8           3
INTEREST. SAVINS DEP RATE                       18.274          0         523        1,072        530         181          76          27
SAVINGS BANK LOAN
-PRINCIPAL                                        3.000          0          73          82          70          35          24          10
-INTERE, 3% Mwgh                                   303          15          17          14           7           2           1           0
00       -INTEREST. SAVINGS DEP. RATE                      6,004        474         360         275          127          40          14          4
In
IDA LOAN
-PRINCIPAL                                       15.000          0           0           0           0           0           0           0
.SERVICECHARGE(OVER40YEARS)                       1.913         28         113         113         113         113         113         113
|TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                               56.174 E      518        1.126       1,790       1,130        506         317         212
|OPERATING & ADM4N COSTS                            474 1        50          55          61          67          73          81          89
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                             100.198       4.568      10,006      11,701      12.321       9,004       11,673      15,301
AVAILABLE FUN06  OURCES-US                        5,167          18          27          36          35           5          35          24
INTEREST ON SUFIPLLUS FUNDS              3%                                  0            1          2            2           3           3
NET SURPULLS (DEIC1)                                             18         45           82         116         125         162         189            to
INFLATION ASSUMPTION- ALBANIA                                  108%         65%         60%         55%         50%         45%         45%
NON  AFNE CAH FLOW.        SRUCTO  COST                                     55%         39%         55%        100%        100%        100%
DA FUNDWINGCONSTRUCTION COST                                     0%         45%         61%         45%          0%          0%          0%
Nob: Al Us   MApt to Debt Smvi. on tw IDA Low we dsno*d i Lake.



ANNEX 1.3
Page 1 of 3
National Housing Agency of Albania
NOTES ON FINANCIAL MODEL ASSUMPTIONS
SOURCES
1. Loans and Date Committed
A. From National Bank As specified in the loan agreement and shown in supporting spreadsheet P57. Amount drawn
each year varies directly with the amount of Construction Costs after proceeds of the Savings Bank Loan are fully used.
Amounts drawn reduced by cumulative inflation since commitment date.
B. From Savings Bank As specified in the loan agreement and shown in supporting spreadsheet P96. Amount drawn
varies directly with Construction Costs after the Proceeds of Privatization are used. Amount drawn reduced by
cumulative inflation since commitment date.
C. From IDA Variable amount and standard IDA terms as shown in supporting spreadsheet Q6. Amount drawn each
year varies directly with Construction Costs after National Bank Loan fully used. Assumes that amount of $1.5 million
paid on closing to the National Bank of Albania will not be passed to the NHA until needed.
11. Subsidy from State Budget
A. Reserve Fund As specified in Decree establishing the NHA. Capital to cover start up expenses assumed exhausted
within first quarter 1993.
B. Interest Subsidies As specified in the guarantee agreement from the Ministry of Finance to the NHA. Equals 100%
of interest costs on the National Bank and Savings Bank Loans.
III. Proceeds of Privatization
A. Total Privatization Sales Variable estimate based on terms of the privatization law and implementing regulations.
Amount of total sales in 1993 and in 1994 based on variable estimate of percent of sales completed in each year. Annual
totals reduced by cumulative inflation since 1/1/93.
B. Cash Sales Variable amounts based on estimates of proportional percent cash sales to total sales, the amount of total
sales each year and reduced by cumulative inflation since I/l/93.
C. Discount on Cash Sales Percent specified by the Privatization Law times the deflated value of Cash Sales.
D. 10 Year Payment Sales Variable amounts based on estimates of proportional percent time payment sales to total
sales, the amount of total sales each year, the annual payment terms specified in the Privatization Law and reduced by
cumulative inflation since 1/1/93.  These payments are indexed to the annual inflation adjustments to salaries of
government employees. The model assumes that these adjustments cover only half the annual increase in inflation.
E. Losses, Loan Non-Payment Variable based on estimate of percent probable non-payment times annual 10 Year
Payment Sales amount.
TV. Sales Units in Construction
A. Total Sales Varies directly with Construction Costs as shown in Sales of Units Now in Construction. Prices stated
to buyers in dollars. Assumes a six month delay between completion of construction and closing of sale and receipt of
cash. Therefore, 50 percent of cash from sales is deferred into the following year.
1. Cash Sales Variable amounts based on estimations of proportional percent cash sales to total sales and the
amount of total sales each year.
86



ANNEX J.3
Page 2 of 3
2.2S Year Sales Payments Variable amounts based on estimations of proportional percent time payment sales
to total sales, the amount of total sales each year and the proposed payment schedule  own in spreadsheet
AB17. Payments to be in Lek equivalent on payment dates of dollar payment amount. Change in Le(Dolar
rate assumed to equal inflation rate, so no inflation adjustment made.
3. Minimum DOWn Payment Variable based on percent to be negotiated betweon Albania and MDA times the
total annual 25 Year Payment Sales.
B. Income on Finandag Sales Based on a 3 % interest rato on outstanding 25 Year Payment Sales.
C. Less - Loan Non-Payment Variable based on estimate of percent probable non-payment times the surm of annual
amounts of 25 Year Sales Payment and Income on Financing Sales.
V. Sales of Units Now in Construction This is a table showing the calculation of Total Sales for line IV A above. Te
key assumption is that all units will be sold at a price based on the average cost all units to be completed and not the
acta cost of a specific unit or the average price of a group or classification of units.
A. Percent Sold Each Year Equals the % Completed Each Year, Units Under Construction. Assumption is that all units
can be sold in the year that they are completed.
B. Number of Dwelling Units (DU) Based on current information on the number of units out of the total now under
construction that the NHA will given to complete and sell. The breakdown is shown in spreadshet AG36.
C. Cost of Construction The total cost based on current information as shown in spreadsheet A036.
D. Margin on EaCh Sale Variable. Based on current agreement with the Govt of Albania on the percent necessary to
cover NHA administrative costs.
E. Land Price per DU Based on a purchase from the state of the footprint of each building assuming 1S square meters
as an average size DU and a price of $1.50 per DU. Average size and the price information provided by Albanian
officias.
F. Totl Sales Annual amount equals the total sales price for all the units, as shown in the Total column, times the %
Sold Each Year. The actual amounts will probably be higher in the early years and lower in the later ones because the
lower cost Relatively Advanced units will be finished and sold first at a higher margin above average costs.
USES OF FUNDS
L Construction Costs - Units Under Construction Based information from and negotiation with Albanian officials on
the units to be completed by the NHA as shown in sproadsheet AG36.
A. Percent Completed Each Year Equals the annual cost divided by the total cost of DU Under Construction.
B. DU Under Construction Variable amounts based on the capacity of the NHA to effectively spend funds on
cotruction and the availability of funds from the above sources for each year. The  penditure limits are based on
advice that the Albanian housing construction enterpriss are either so new or are in suh disarray that they will not be
able to produce more than $4 million in work in 1993,S10 million in 1994 and SlS to S20 million in 1995. The limit is
also based on the time needed, in 1993 especially, for the NHA to orpnize itslf so that it can contract and manage a
sufficient number of projects.
C. Other Construction Costs This line was built into the model to allow it to show what additional construction could
be done if funds wore available.
IL Debt Service
A. Natioal Commercial Bank Loan Based on information from the loan agreement betwoen the bank and NHA as
explained by the sdtff of the NHA finance section as shown in spreadsheet PS7.
87



ANNEX J.3
Pag 3 of 3
1. Princpal Total amunt Lek 1 billion. Annual principal repayment amounts vary in reltion to nnual
amounts dawn down baed  n the tems of the loan agrement. Thm include a ao year grace period and 20
equal quafterly payments. They are reduoed in dolar value by the rate of cumulative inflation
2. Inbrest, 5% Margin The sprd over the bo rate as specified in the loan agreemmt  Annual interes
amounts reduced to reflect dacm   in pincipal value by infatioL
3. Intet, Savin  Depqst Rate The rate that the National Commeci  Bank pays for avings deposits is th
ba  rate for the lo   It is adjusted semiannually to the then curnt  ving deposit rte. For simplicity, that
rate i asumed to equal the anul inlation rate. Annual intere  amounts reduced to rflect deca       in
principal value by inflation.
B. Savinp Bank Loan Baed on information from the lon agreement between the bank mad NRA as expned by the
staff of the NHA finance section. Shown in spreadshed P96.
1. PrIncpal Total amount LAk 300 million. Annual principal rpayment amounts vary in reation to a
amounts drwn down bsed on the terms of the lon agreemnt.  Thens include a one year grace period nd 60
equal mnthly payments. They ae reduced in doLar value by the rate of cumulative inflation.
2. Intrest, 3% Margin  he sprd over the ba  rate as specified in the loan agreemenL  Annual iterest
amouts rduced to rflect dcm  in principal value by inflaton.
3. Intrt, SavnW  Deposit Rate  h rate tht the Savings Bank pays for savings deposits is the base rato for
the loan. It is adjusted  miannually to the the currnt savings deposit rate. For simplicity, that rate is asumed
to equal the nnual inflation rate. Annual intest amounts reduced to reflect decres  in principal value by
ination
C. IDA Loan Baod on standard IDA term for Albanis shown in spreadhee  Q6.
1. Prnipal VariNS to m*aimum of SS million Ton year grace period means no payments during the years
covered by the model.
2. Serve Chag  Annual auounts equal 3/4% of nnual outstandings.
UL Opeaing & Adminstative Cot
Variable Infonrmtion based on current budget from finance section of the NHA. Model assumes a 10% increase in
doUi  per year.
Avaaibl Fund (Soures mius Uses) The amounts drwn on the loSD and/or spnt on cosuction cots an adjusted
to =mim  this total.
Iteret os Surplu Funds We advised that thre percent was the highest  e paid on govemmet reat  deposits.
This dw  the inter  that would be enud on any available funds surplus. Inflation ha  lrady been adjusted for by
th modeL
Net Swpla/(D *dt) Th mm of Available Funds Balances and Interet on Surplu Funds to the year shown.
lafladom Msumpdios
* Varble Baned on staff eimates.
S Value figure are fimctiom of inflation used for calculation in the modd.
88



ANNEX K
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year          Disbursement       Cumulative           Percent
and                  Each Quarter      Disbursement            of
Ouarter Ending           (US Million)       US$ Million           Total
FY 94
December 31, 1993             1.75*             1.75*             11.7
March     31, 1994            0.50              2.25              15.0
June      30, 1994            0.75              3.00              20.0
FY 95
September 30, 1994            1.00              4.00              26.7
December 31, 1994             1.25              5.25              35.0
March     31, 1995            1.25              6.50              43.3
June      30, 1995            1.25              7.75              51.7
FY 96
September 30, 1995            1.50              9.25              61.7
December 31, 1995             1.50             10.75              71.7
March     31, 1996            1.25             12.00              80.0
June      30, 1996            1.25              13.25             88.3
FY 97
September 30, 1996            1.00              14.25             95.0
December 31, 1996             0.75              15.00            100.0
* Includes $1.5 million advance disbursement to establish Special Account
89






ANNEX L
Page 1 of 2
Albania Housing Project
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports, Memoranda, Articles
1. BYNENS, E., Albania: Housing Sector Assessment, Mission Report, UNDP, June
1992
2. BLEJER M.I., MECAGNI M. and Others, Albania: From Isolation Toward Reform,
International Monetary Fund, Washington, D.C., September 1992.
3. CHRISTO, Thomas and VARS Ellen, Housing Projec: a report prepared for the
Ministry of Construction, Tirana, September 1992.
4. FOSTVEDT, Nils, Albania. Enterprise and Banking Restructuring Project Reports on
Enterprise Visits, World Bank, Washington, D.C., September 1992.
5. HALL, Derek, New Towns in Europe's Rural Corner, Town and Country Planning,
volume 55, No. 12, December 1986.
6. HELLER, Michael, Albania: Housing Project Preparation Mission, Comments on the
November 10, 1992 Draft Version of the Albanian Law on the Privatization of State Houses,
World Bank, Tirana, November 11, 1992.
7. IMF - Minutes of Meeting with Minister of Construction, March 11, 1991.
8. JOUBERT, Christopher and BIRD, Andrew, Government Organization and Civil Service
Reform, Interim Report, World Bank, Washington, D.c., November 1992.
9. LOWRY, Ira S., Designing an Housing Privatization Program for Albania, Mission
Report, USAID/Urban Institute, Tirana, October 1992.
10. LEMARCHANDS Guy, Albania: Housing Sector Assessment, Mission Report, UNDP,
June 1992.
11. MILIA, Antonio, Albania Housing Projects: 3 reports prepared for the World Bank,
Italian Trust Fund, Rome, November 1992, April 1993.
12. MIKELSONS, Maris, An Initial Assessment of the Albanian Housing Sector,
USAID/Urban Institute, Washington, D.C., January 1993.
90



ANNEX L
Page 2 of 2
3. POST, Edward Everett, National Housing Agency of Albania. A Financial Review of
Current Status and Plans, USAID/PADCO Washington, D.C., March 10, 1993.
14. RABENHORST, Carol, The National Agency: Documentation and Procedures: Memo
with numerous attachments, USAID/PADCO, Tirana, March 1992.
B. Government Publications
15. GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA, 1989 Population and Housing Census, Ministry of
Economy, Directorate of Statistics, Tirana, 1989.
16. GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA, Statistical Yearbook of Albania, Ministry of
Economy, Directorate of Statistics, Tirana, 1991.
17. GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA, INSTIM i STUDIMEVE DHE PROJEKTIMEVE,
Nr. 1 Studim Mbi Normativat e Projektimit Te Baneses, Seria e Seksioneve Tip 1988, Tirana
1989.
18. GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA, Housing Privatization Act: Translation, No. 7652,
December 23, 1992.
19. GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA, Condominium Property Act: Translation, No. 7683,
March 17, 1993.
20. GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA, Real Estate Property Restitution Act: Translation,
No. ---, April 17, 1993.
91



77    .. ..... ..                                  . .....o.....
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
6
tz~~~iI~.
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10t
O~~~~~~jj
C,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                  joeii
jj 00~~~~~~~~~



Figure 2
Unfinished Building
In Tirana
93



*~~~~ I
*'7                  '                      '7         '7 '7                          '~
'7%~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t" .0  '
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V ''"  '
Unfinished Brick  uilding in Tiran
94'. 



Figure 4
__                                 l l I I ~~~~~~I 
UJnrinished Brick Building in Shkoder
g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _[



Figure S
T                X .              _
Unrmishe  Brick Bidng nTrn
r                     -i~~~~ 
t''t'~~~~ '1)~<~_ 
-  ->Ae  T--=-;--- -                               U
"~~Ufnse  Brc  Buldn  In tirana
96  - ......



I



Figure 6
Q                                                                      aa    ()oSsf                     
-  .. .- (2i1 (7a}    ae I !  So          53 30    t2'   3"0                  350           68(473 j ac57 e
- '0~sS JS0 j S8  '.0T   40  I                '3   I 'iO- Ago  5  6 50            450   91400
> ~~~~~~-.'- *---, --------#---                ! _]  -   -         1              1  
I          1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
C 'lii                                                                                  F'
; . .  - *-  N [       -      * tL2 1  *2(=W   A3(Oz)   2, _3 !             -21  20  A. 5142)   ! s    52
SE  -                                                                                                         0 4   .; 3l     w|ie  -          . .    SI____.b.t.-  t- 0191
*   S:Or*    T        K                                    -          -              -.                                    -3Dt0 
: .-           -        ':  ,                       -, r-2S A                                    .. t  25           *-!
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~~~~~~I
' i ' ' ' e (g ( 2''                         -  's          '   ;~             '       G         '      35  '((A 2 
IM ~ ~ ~ ~ IO
-                --              .-w- --'*  - PLANI'- I   KATIT                            TiP   .   SHK. 4.iOO                  -  ^.-'-.................. . - 
Typical Floor Plan
97






IBRD 24828
J             ~~~~~~F E D.   R E P   O F Y U G O S L A V I A                                            21'
CROATIA
)Han i    ot             TOJE_
/  Koplik S#fl<05R                         A 
Str1kod,          b         rlr9<JPUKE 
42|                                                                                                   Kuk
42'
A L B A N  I A                       Shengiin           TJMRKrb;                Zillc| -
HOUSING PROJECT                                             Len
Q     TIRANE (OVER 200,000 INHABITANTS)                            Bunrl-                                    OF
30,000 - 80,000 INHABITANTS                       Kr                               iz 
10,000 - 30,000 INHABITANTS                 DURRES u    KuQIZE
*   LESS THAN 10,000 INHABITANTS                Shik  Vore                                          MACEDONIA
Dunfes       ,/4                  -
MINOR TOWNS                                            TIRANE                LIBPAZHD
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                       K                        B-
-     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                        KAVE
41               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    Chrik
RIVERS                                       LUSHN       PEQUIN
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:        - t
1200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
g1200                                       Fier Benwt L tNs r JOCii>*3
200
.;    Selenice t 9,J       Cor wocl
Mrao       TEPELEN             ,      s~~n 
VLORE       iolioj       \PRER           (zOJ
ITALY
b~~~ ~~ in.                                           ' ohd'
_4(                                                                                                                               40GjnaoU 
bn Th. vlsw                    0   8   16  24                                                     GREECE
,, ~ ~ ~~~~  |   |   |   S                      ynX t   ,iKo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~koviio
rpr~~~~~~~w ~~~KILOMErERS                            Soramd  
r~~- vDnw t'r'                                     ~~~~~~SARAND 
O" in h=,d rOh
- -    
19,                                           20                                            21'
21
MAY 1993



