Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20440
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.6 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO ALBANIA
FOR A HOUSING PROJECT
(Credit No. 25340)
MAY 17, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = ALL
ALL 100 = US$ 0.769
US$ I = ALL 130
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GoA               Government of Albania
IDA               International Development Association
NHA              National Housing Agency
USAID            US Agency for International
Development
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartman, ECCO2
Sector Manager/Director:   Margret Thalwitz, ECS1N
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Toru Konishi, ECSSD



FOR OFFCIAL US ONLY
Albania
Housing Project
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                              1
2. Principal Perforrnance Ratings                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry   2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                      4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                        7
6. Sustainability                                                            9
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                            9
8. Lessons Learned                                                          11
9. Partner Comments                                                         12
10. Additional Information                                                  13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                        14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                        15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                        17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                        18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components        20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                           21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                       22
This document has a resticted distnibution and may be used by recipit  only in
performance of their official dudes. Its conten  may not otherwie be disclosed w i
World Bank uhro.






Project ID: P008266                                  Project Name: HOUSING
Team Leader: Toru Konishi                             TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                   Report Date: May 17, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HOUSING                         L/C/TF Number:   25340
Country/Department: ALBANIA                       Region:           Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: UH - Urban Housing
KEY DATES                                           Original          Revised/Actual
PCD: 10/15/92                      Effective: 12/31/93        12/14/93
Appraisal: 03/15/93                       MTR:
Approval: 07/08/93                      Closing: 12/31/98         12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: ALBANIA/National Housing Agency
Other Partners: USAID
STAFF                        Current                          At Appraisal
Vice President:               Johannes Linn                    Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:              Amtraud Hartmann                 Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:               Margret Thalwitz                 Hans Apitz
Team Leader at ICR:           Toru Konishi                     Gian Carlo Guarda
ICR Primary Author:           Toru Konishi; Gary Griffis;
Arben Bakllamaja
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U--Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely,
UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial,
M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UTN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)     ICR
Quality at Entry:                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project were to: (a) assist the Borrower (GoA) in the development of an efficient,
market-based housing construction and finance system; (b) help alleviate the shortage of housing in
urban areas by completing unfinished housing projects; and (c) encourage the participation of private
sector firms to enable them to strengthen their capacity to respond to anticipated long-term demand for
housing in the territory of the Borrower.
3.2 Revised Objective:
On April 8, 1998, the Board approved a restructuring of the project to add the objective of restoring full
operational capacity of local and central government offices through repairs to damaged buildings and
replacement of critical office supplies and equipment.
3.3 Original Components:
The project originally comprised the following two components:
(a) Completion of Unfinished Housing (US$15 million). The entire amount of the IDA credit was
originally allocated to the completion of construction on apartments that were started during the socialist
era. Construction of these apartments was interrupted in 1991 due to a shortage of funds after the
socialist regime collapsed. Upon completion, these apartments were to be sold to individuals at prices no
less than the completion costs.
(b) Technical Assistance (US$1.5 million). Substantial technical assistance was planned under the
USAID program to support project administration as well as to provide policy advice on the housing
sector. The technical assistance would have included legal and institutional support for condominium
associations, institutional strengthening of the National Housing Agency on technical and financial
matters (e.g., structural analysis of NHA-financed apartments, development of sales and credit
procedures), and project administration support for NHA (e.g., MIS system development and preparation
for annual external audits). The USAID-funded technical assistance was completed in late 1995, and no
technical assistance was provided after that.
3.4 Revised Components:
On April 8 1998, the Board approved the restructuring of the project to allocate US$900,000 from
component (a) above to a third component, (c) Repairs to Government Buildings. This component
financed repairs to about 40 central and local govemment buildings that were damaged during the 1997
civil unrest.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project quality at entry is unsatisfactory. On the physical side, the project design was feasible; however,
there was no careful analysis on the technical capacity of the NHA. In addition, the project aimed to
achieve institutional and financial objectives that were too ambitious given the difficult political and
social environment at the time of appraisal. Furthermore, there is little elaboration of the need for



3
technical assistance and its planning. Consequently, the project faced difficulties from the earliest stages
of implementation in all its aspects, including technical, policy, institutional, and financial.
Physical Aspect. The project primarily aimed to quickly complete construction on unfinished apartments
that were started during the socialist era by using emerging private contractors, and to provide urban
housing in a relatively short period. This objective was considered appropriate. At the time of project
appraisal in 1992, all construction activities had completely halted since the collapse of the socialist
regime in 1991, despite an acute shortage of urban housing. There were about 500 unfinished buildings
containing close to 10,000 apartments in major cities throughout the country. Construction on many of
these buildings had been suspended for more than five years due to a lack of funds, and it was becoming
apparent that these unfinished buildings were quickly deteriorating and becoming a major threat to
neighborhoods. Small private contractors were just emerging after the collapse of the large state
construction monopoly, and completion of the unfinished buildings was the most suitable way to
stimulate development of the private construction industry.
However, little attention was paid to the technical aspects during project preparation.  First, no
investigation was done on the structural safety of the buildings to be completed under the project---
almost all apartments in Albania had been constructed using the direct labor of future recipients and there
were some cases of major structural problems found during implementation. Second, the importance of
supervision was not fully recognized at the appraisal. While the NHA was put in place to supervise the
civil works carried out by private contractors, it was unable to perform its duties due to a lack of
technical capacity and qualified staff during the first year of implementation.
Institutional, Policy, and Financial Aspects. The project also aimed to use the completed apartments to
facilitate the transition from centrally planned public housing to a market-oriented housing sector. In the
absence of an effective private sector, the Government established the National Housing Agency (NHA)
as a financially autonomous state agency for carrying out various activities in the housing sector, such as
development, purchases, sales, and loans. These objectives were totally impossible to achieve from the
beginning of implementation, given the social and political pressures on the urban housing sector at that
time.
On the positive side, the Government had indeed made considerable efforts to reform the housing sector
during preparation of the project, including privatizing housing construction, eliminating rent control,
and adopting laws on condominiums (March 1993) and restitution (April 1993). In addition, the
Government carried out a rapid and massive privatization of urban housing in 1992-1993. At the end of
1993, the Government had privatized virtually all of the 90,000 public apartments to occupants at
nominal prices (US$100-200). This privatization made an immediate impact. First, the Govemment was
able to rid itself of the financial burden of maintaining an old and deteriorating public housing stock.
Second, privatization brought about the development of various private businesses related to the housing
industry (e.g., small contractors, electricians, building material importers, appliances) almost
instantaneously. Furthermore, the Government used the proceeds from this privatization, amounting to
US$19 million, as start-up capital for the NHA.
However, the project design underestimated the social risks associated with the housing sector,
particularly the legacy inherited from the socialist regime and the inequities that resulted from the rapid
privatization. First, the socialist regime left a waiting list of about 10,000 families who were expecting to
receive apartments from the state, and there was tremendous political and social pressure on the
Government to restart the social housing program. Consequently, the Government passed a decree in
January 1993 to entitle those who did not benefit from the privatization to various kinds of housing
subsidies, such as interest free loans or free apartments. In addition, the new Government had to provide



4
housing to 1,000 families that were displaced due to dam construction in Kukes and Tropoje. It also had
to provide housing as compensation for about 10,000 ex-political prisoners who had spent more than 10
years in jail during the socialist regime.
Because social and political pressures had mounted drastically when the project began in late 1993, the
Government added implementation of the social housing program to NHA's responsibilities. This made
it very difficult to isolate the IDA-financed apartments from NIA's other social housing programs,
especially since the unfinished apartments that IDA financed for completion had started out as public
apartments during the socialist era, often with the voluntary labor of future recipients of the apartments.
In retrospect, the project's goals for cost recovery were too ambitious given the country's social and
political conditions. In addition, NHA's financial position was seriously undermined because it had to
use proceeds from the subsidiary loan on the project and loans from the Savings Bank and National
Commercial Bank to construct the above-mentioned social housing, and then found it difficult to recover
the full costs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project partially met the original objectives, as described in Sections 3.1 and 3.2. On the physical
side, the project largely achieved the original target. The project certainly provided critical urban
housing by completing 2,862 unfinished apartments whose construction had stopped after the collapse of
the socialist regime. This figure is substantially lower than the appraisal target (4,500 apartments)
because the SAR over-estimated the level of completion of these buildings and under-estimated the costs
of completing them. The Government completed the remaining 1,638 unfinished apartments using its
own budget, and successfully resolved one of the problems inherited from the socialist regime--the
housing shortage. All apartments are located in major cities and are fully occupied, and there are
reported cases where some have already been resold on the market. The project also relied exclusively
on small, emerging local private contractors to carry out civil works--the very first project in Albania to
do so. During the first two years of implementation, extensive supervision was provided to identify the
structural problems in the buildings financed under the project and to carry out urgent works for
reinforcement. The project also revealed the importance of supervision of civil works, which had never
existed in the country. The project's experience with these contractors has been properly shared with
other projects that manage large numbers of small civil works contracts.
The project also successfully assisted about 40 municipalities, communes, and district offices in
normalizing their operations by carrying out repairs and furnishing critical office equipment and supplies
in response to the damage and looting perpetrated during the 1997 civil unrest.
However, the project was unable to develop a market-based housing finance system, given the strong
social and political pressure to allocate IDA-financed apartments to social housing programs. The
Government adopted a generous social housing policy in 1993 for those who did not benefit from the
privatization of public housing. Even though there were frequent changes in government throughout the
project's implementation, every administration found it politically impossible to revise this policy. In
mid-1994, only six months after the project's effectiveness, the Government started to use the NHA to
implement the social housing program. About 80 percent of the IDA credit was committed during the
first year of implementation, and most of the IDA-financed apartments were occupied even before the
civil works were completed.



5
In light of the shrinking state budget, the NHA's financially autonomous status was misused. As the
program's costs were estimated at US$200 million for full implementation, the NHA was forced to utilize
the proceeds of loans from Savings Bank and National Commercial Bank for construction of public
housing and distribution of completed apartments to selected buyers. And because NHA was unable to
recoup the full cost of construction from buyers, it was in serious financial trouble by the end of 1995.
Furthermore, the NHA was forced to distribute IDA-financed apartments to buyers selected by
municipalities. Consequently, IDA-financed apartments were distributed to homeless people who
qualified for interest free loans (77%), and to ex-political prisoners who received apartments free of
charge (7%). About 10 percent of the buyers purchased the apartments with a 30 percent discount for
cash payment. Ironically, until mid-1997, the Government did not wish to acknowledge the need to
restructure the project to redefine apartments financed under the project as a part of social housing and
abolish one of the original objectives of establishing a housing finance system, as it would have been
seen as a bribe to occupants, which would have been politically damaging (see Section 7.5).
In the meantime, the original role of the NHA as a main vehicle for helping the transition to a market-
based housing sector had become totally irrelevant, as the private sector developed rapidly on its own.
Urban houses developed by the private sector had already outnumbered those completed by the NHA in
early 1995. Housing finance, though in a primitive form, had also evolved as a form of direct credit by
private developers. Under these circumstances, the project focused on a policy dialogue to: (a) assist the
Government in finding a politically and socially palatable way to economize the housing subsidies, and
(b) transform the NHA into an effective agency for carrying out social housing programs.
In this it made a considerable achievement, given the very difficult circumstances of the country from
1995 to 1998, such as the collapse of the pyramid schemes and the subsequent civil turmoil. The reforms
included: (a) recognition of the NHA as a budgetary institution, and inclusion of all NHA subsidies in
the state budget, and (b) introduction of housing vouchers that would gradually replace the direct
construction of public apartments. As a result, the NHA significantly reduced its construction of new
apartments after 1995, and subsidies for housing construction were mainly contained to completion of
on-going civil works. In addition, the Government took a very important step to gradually move away
from the construction of public housing and towards regularizing informal settlements and providing
them with essential infrastructure so as to stimulate private housing investment at the site level and
improve urban land management at the city level. This is being supported by a subsequent IDA-financed
project, the Urban Land Management Project.
The Government also took action to accelerate cost recovery from occupants of the IDA-financed
apartments. Sales started in late 1997, and accelerated in 1999. About 690 IDA apartments were sold to
occupants in 1999 alone, and the final cost recovery rate will be about 45 percent, which is higher than
for similar public housing projects in other countries.
Based on the above, it was concluded that the achievement of project objectives was marginally
satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Completion of Unfinished Apartments. The project financed completion of 2,862
apartments, at a total cost of lek 1,751 million (US$18.3 million equivalent), implying an average price
of US$6,400. All of these apartments have been occupied. The project also financed goods (including
vehicles and office equipment), audit services, and office renovations. The total cost for goods, services,
and office renovations carried out under this component was approximately US$700,000.



6
Sales of the apartments were long delayed due to the incompatibility between the terms for IDA
apartments and those of apartments constructed under the social housing programs. Most of the
occupants of the IDA apartments qualified for housing subsidies, and they have been reluctant to pay in
accordance with the terms of sales stipulated under the project.
After a long delay, sales of completed apartments began in 1997, when the Government decided that the
apartments should be sold to their respective occupants at subsidized prices in accordance with the
current laws and regulations on social housing, but that the subsidies should be recorded on budget.
Component 2. Technical Assistance. USAID provided international consultants from 1993 to 1997 to
assist with housing policy issues such as preparation and implementation of a condominium law, reform
of social housing programs, and focus on informal settlements. It also supported the National Housing
Agency in developing and implementing a finance and contract management system, and provided
technical assistance for the supervision of civil works.
Component 3. Repairs to Government Buildings. The project completed repairs to about 40 local
government buildings and provided critical office equipment (computers) and supplies. The total costs
for repairs (civil works) and purchased goods and services were US$642,000 and US$134,000
respectively.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic analysis was not carried out at appraisal, as the project consisted of a number of
subprojects throughout the country with different levels of completion. In addition, at the time of
appraisal in 1992, there was no rental market and it was virtually impossible to determine the shadow
rent value. However, the project most likely had a substantially positive economic impact.
A simple economic analysis, carried out at the completion, proved the above-mentioned assumption.
Almost all of the IDA-financed apartments are located near the center of major cities, and are all
occupied. More than 500 apartments (or 17 percent of the total apartments financed under the project)
are located in Tirana. In addition, the project managed to salvage substantial sunk costs by providing
funds for completion. As part of the completion exercise, a rapid survey of about 1,800 IDA-financed
apartments was carried out in collaboration with various Realtors in the country. While the figures are
for illustrative purposes, the indicative economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be about 44 percent
using the appraisal values of the apartments as proxies for the economic value of apartments.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
In contrast to the positive economic impact, the project did not have a viable financial rate of the return.
While the project originally envisaged engaging the National Housing Agency in the (financially viable)
sale and rental of the completed apartments, the NHA instead became a government agency for
implementing social housing policy.
As a part of the project completion exercise, an analysis was carried out to assess the sales amount,
review the current payment situation of buyers, and estimate the eventual cost recovery for the completed
apartments. This is summarized below (detailed tables are available in the project file).
Sales. NHA sold 1,067 IDA-financed apartments for a total amount of US$5.86 million. About 340
apartments were sold for cash for a total amount of about US$630,000. About 500 apartments were
sold on credit for a total of US$2.84 million, and the NHA has so far collected US$280,000 (or 10



7
percent). NHA provided ex-political prisoners with 171 apartments, which are worth US$1.5 million
in total.
Quality of Credit Portfolio. As of December 31, 1999, about 20 percent of the credit buyers were
considered delinquent (delayed in payment by more than 3 months).
Eventual Cost Recovery Rate. In estimating the eventual cost recovery rate, it is assumed that the net
delinquency rate will be 24 percent (about 30 percent of buyers will default after paying about 20
percent of the sales price). The exchange rate risks are not counted. The eventual cost recovery rate
could reach about 27 percent of the total cost, and the net financial present value discounted at 12
percent would be negative US$13.4 million.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the project is marginally satisfactory. During project implementation, the NHA was
established as a public institution to promote the transition to a market-based housing sector. In fact, the
NHA was designed to carry out various quasi-commercial activities in the housing and real estate
markets, including development, sales and trade of land and apartments. It was also expected to provide
housing credit once it was developed. This was indeed against the Bank's policy on establishing a state-
owned housing development and finance agency. However, in Albania such a state enterprise was
considered necessary because of the total absence of a private sector at the time of appraisal of the
project.
During project implementation, however, the NHA could not maintain its original objective and became
a state agency for implementing social housing programs. Ironically, this change was justified by the
rapid emergence of small but strong private housing developers, whose performance indicated that there
was no longer a need for a state enterprise to carry out commercial housing activities (in 1995, the
number of apartments built by private contractors had already exceeded those built by the NHA).
Housing finance was often provided by private developers, too. Thus, the project assisted the NHA in
transforming itself into an effective agency for implementing social housing programs by developing
adequate skills, such as financial and contract management, design and supervision, and allocation of
completed apartments. As a result, NRA's performnance improved substantially, particularly after 1998,
and it completed Component 3, Repairs to Government Buildings, satisfactorily and on time.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As stated in Section 3.4, social pressure resulting from the shortage of urban housing was one of the
major factors affecting project implementation. The Government had to satisfy several needy or
disgruntled groups for its own political survival and issued a decree to provide: (a) interest-free, 25-year
loans to those who did not benefit from the 1992-1993 privatization, (b) free apartments in urban areas to
ex-political prisoners, (c) free replacement houses to those displaced by dam construction. The decree
also provided for housing subsidies, and engaged the NHA in constructing and distributing apartments
using those subsidies. The decree was issued without any consideration of the budgetary implications,
and was estimated to cost US$200 million.
In addition, the Government and the NHA were unable to isolate the IDA project from NHA's other
social housing programs, and the majority of apartments completed under this project were distributed to
people who qualified for housing subsidies. This resulted in the Government's non-compliance with



8
legal covenants related to the terms of sales of completed apartments. The NHA was unable to set prices
on its own or recover the full costs of completion, as it had to accept the buyers selected by
municipalities, most of whom were entitled to some kind of subsidy. Consequently, the NHA was unable
to generate sufficient revenue to service the subsidiary loan from the Government.
Also during this time, Albania experienced substantial political instability and frequent changes in key
government officials. None of the key politicians or policymakers were willing to reform social housing
to reduce the fiscal burden to an affordable level. However, the project was able to facilitate some
modest reform in social housing programs as well as a shift in the Government's strategy for housing
development, as stated in Section 4.1.
The collapse of the pyramid schemes and the subsequent outburst of violent civil unrest in 1997 affected
the project in several ways. First, implementation of civil works was delayed due to security problems.
Second, because many local and central government buildings were damaged and looted by angry mobs
who had lost money in the pyramid schermes, the Government requested and IDA approved an additional
project component in April 1998 for repairing the damaged buildings.
In addition, about 1,000 families lost their homes, and under political and social pressure, the
Government was again forced to start a new social housing program instead of winding down their
current ones. The Government intends to obtain a loan in 2000 from the Greek Government to start this
new program, estimated to cost some US$12 million.
The crisis in Kosovo also affected project implementation, but only slightly. The NHA found it difficult
to obtain the necessary information on damage to local government buildings because the Ministry of
Local Government and district offices were extremely busy dealing with refugees from Kosovo. Civil
works were delayed in some cases, as several municipalities used their damaged buildings to host
refugees.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
As stated in the previous section, the Government was unable to isolate the project from the other social
housing programs. In addition, the Government frequently changed NHA directors due to political
instability (five directors in six years), and because the general director had overall responsibility for
project implementation, there were frequent delays, particularly in reporting and auditing.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The NHA was established in 1992 with technical and administrative staff who were not experienced in
project administration and management. Nonetheless, the staff managed to implement the project
satisfactorily due to their intensive learning on the job. However, frequent changes in key technical staff
kept administrative and technical capacity to a minimum level.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was originally estimated at US$40.0 million, US$10 million of which would be
financed by IDA. The final cost was US$39.4 million (see Annex 2 for detailed costs by component).
The expenditures on sunk costs and land for Component I were lower due to a reduction in the number
of apartments. USAID spent approximately US$1.5 million on technical assistance for the project,
covering (a) policy support (housing related laws on issues such as homelessness and condominiums), (b)
housing finance and credit (development of sales procedures), (c) technical issues (strengthening NI-IA's



9
supervision capacity and carrying out structural analyses of NHA apartments), and (d) administration
support for NHA (development of MIS system and project audit support).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project was a very unique operation that aimed to complete unfinished apartments begun during the
socialist era and to facilitate the development of a private housing sector. There will be no opportunity in
the future to carry out a similar Bank-financed operation in Albania. The NHA has been satisfactorily
turned into an agency to implement social housing programs. The Government intends to continue to
engage the NHA in carrying out several internationally funded projects, as its technical and
administrative capacity has improved over the last two years.
All of the IDA-financed apartments have been occupied; the current tenants will eventually become
owners and will carry out proper maintenance and repairs on their own apartments. For the maintenance
of common areas and the surrounding environment, while the project envisaged facilitating the
establishment of condominium associations, the concept was not accepted by apartment residents. In
general, urban dwellers are still focusing on improving their own homes, and are not interested in joining
formal associations for maintaining common areas.
The NHA is currently selling the IDA-financed apartments at a fast pace, and apartment sales should be
completed by December 31, 2000. It is expected that about 60 percent of these sales will be through
credit to be paid off over 25 years (as stipulated by either the current homeless law or the credit
agreement). When sales are completed, the Government intends to engage the National Housing Agency
in collecting the installment payments on these credit sales. While the sustainability of the National
Housing Agency is difficult to assess, it will retain its current mandate to carry out social housing
programs for the time being. The Government has already decided to start two new social housing
programs: one with assistance from the Greek Government for people who lost their homes due to the
collapse of the pyramid schemes, and another for people displaced due to restitution.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
None
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance for the preparation was less than satisfactory. As stated in Section 3.4, the Bank was
unable to develop a reasonable and politically feasible cost recovery scheme. The Bank did not
sufficiently review the policy environment or engage itself in policy dialogue with the Borrower;
consequently, the Bank underestimated the serious policy risks such as generous social housing
programs, and the large number of people waiting for social housing. In addition, there was no major
effort to identify technical issues such as the need to improve supervision capacity or potential structural
problems.



10
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was marginally satisfactory. The intensive supervision, particularly
during the first two years of implementation, was effective in responding to various unexpected issues,
such as the structural safety of unfinished apartments, inadequate supervision of civil works, selection of
subprojects, and financial management. Policy dialogue during supervision missions resulted in the
modest reform in housing policy described in Section 4.1 and satisfactory transformation of the NHA
into an effective agency to implement social housing programs.  However, the intensity of the
supervision had to be substantially reduced after 1998 due to a severely limited supervision budget.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
Marginally satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in project preparation was marginally unsatisfactory. This may be perhaps a
little bit harsh, considering the extremely limited experience of the Borrower with international donors
such as the World Bank, and the considerable efforts it made in housing sector reform (as summarized in
Section 3.5). Nevertheless, it should be noted that the Government was not able to identify the potential
negative impact of its outstanding promises and commitments inherited from the socialist regime (see
Section 7. 1), and developed a project design that was politically and socially unfeasible.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
Government performance in project implementation was marginally satisfactory. As stated in Sections
3.4 and 4.1, early on the Government could not isolate the project from other social housing programs
due to severe political and social pressures. Despite a recommendation from the supervision mission, the
Government was reluctant to admit that it was impossible to achieve full cost recovery and engage the
NHA in housing finance, and did not agree to an amendment to recover at least part of the costs under the
prevailing Albanian laws and regulations. The Government was simply worrying about its public image
in providing these tenants with apartments at subsidized prices; consequently, sales programs were
substantially delayed (see Section 4.1).
However, Government performance improved quite substantially after 1998. First, the Government
agreed to implement reform measures (as stated in Section 4.1, e.g., considering the NHA as a de facto
budgetary institution, and rationalizing the use of subsidies), and took over part of NHA's loan
obligations to the National Commercial Bank in order to straighten out its financial position. Further,
the Government agreed to modify the terms of sales of IDA-financed apartrnents to make them
compatible with other NHA apartments completed under the state budget, and started to recover part of
the completion costs, if not all.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
NHA's performance was marginally satisfactory. Under the Government's authority, the NIA was
unable to oppose having to engage in the massive social housing programs, and consequently agreed to
distribute IDA apartments to these programs. The NHA was also unable to resist the Government's
instructions to borrow from the Savings Bank and the National Commercial Banks (see 7.5).



11
During the first two years of implementation, weak supervision and technical capacity was one of the
major issues. NHA's performance improved substantially, however, during the last two years of
implementation. Under new management after the beginning of 1999, it demonstrated improvements in
its technical capacity through the satisfactory implementation of the govemment buildings repair
program. The annual project audit revealed no major issues during the entire period of project
implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Marginally Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The project proved that public sector involvement in the construction of public housing is extremely
difficult in Albania. The project originally envisaged establishing a self-financing state agency for
housing development (National Housing Agency (NHA)) in the absence of a private sector. However,
the Government inherited enormous housing issues from the socialist regime (see Section 4.1), and
passed laws that provided for overly generous housing programs, mainly for those who did not benefit
from the earlier privatization of state housing. While there were several changes in government after the
demise of the socialist regime, none of them dared to amend these overly generous laws for fear of losing
popularity. Under these circumstances, the NHA was politically and socially mandated to focus on
implementing social housing programs, and most of the apartments constructed by the NHA were used
for these programs.
In short, the project should have focused on assistance to the Govermnent for developing a strategy to
phase out the socialists' housing policy. Such a strategy should have included reviewing the social
housing issues, developing an affordable social housing program for targeted beneficiaries, and
developing a legal framework to stimulate private sector investment in the housing sector. In addition,
the project should have focused on technical issues, such as technical reviews of the unfinished
apartments and supervision of civil works. NHA's supervision was ineffective and the structural safety
of the buildings became an issue in the early stages of the project.
The project also provided the lesson that public housing construction is not a cost effective solution to
the growing urbanization problem. The population in Tirana increased from 300,000 in 1992 to 650,000
in 1999, and about 200,000 people are estimated to live in informal settlements with severely limited
access to infrastructure. In response, the Government and the Bank have shifted to a strategy that focuses
on regularizing and upgrading informal settlements to address urbanization; a project (Urban Land
Management Project) has been under implementation since early 1999.
On the implementation side, the project provided the lesson that a project management unit (PMU) is
indeed critical to the success of project implementation. A separate PMU was not established for the
project, and the NHA Director was responsible for overall project implementation. In addition, the
project saw six NHA directors, a new one at every change of the Govemment. Key project staff also
departed frequently, as their salaries were comparable to those of government workers, much lower than
salaries in the private sector. High turn-over and low morale at the NHA (project staff and director)
substantially affected the overall performance of the project.



12
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY
GENERAL DIRECTORY
Nr.677 Prot.                                                       Tirana, May 11, 2000
For:                Mr. Arben BAKLLAMAJA
Project Officer
World Bank Mission, Tirana
From:               Mr. Roland OLLI
General Director
National Housing Agency
Tirana, Albania
Subject:            Comments on Implementation of Housing I Proiect under World Bank Credit
Our comments on the implementation of the Housing I Project under Credit Nr. 25340 of the
World Bank are as follows.
1.    Evaluation of the Development Objectives of the Project
1.1 Original Objectives
The main objective of the project, completion of the unfinished houses inherited from the socialist
regime, was generally realized.
1.2 Revised Objectives
The revised objective to repair local government buildings and replace office supplies damaged or
looted during the turmoil of Spring 1997 was achieved successfully. It also provided great experience for
the National Housing Agency in managing small contracts and procurement of goods.
1.3 TechnicalAssistance
Technical assistance for training staff, as planned by the World Bank under the USAID program,
should have been utilized by the National Housing Agency at the right time, and in accordance with the
defined role of the National Housing Agency and its position.
One of the project's problems during the early stages was the lack of experience of the National
Housing Agency staff. Continuous changes in the leading staff and specialists and a lack of training in
contract management, supervision, and commissioning of the World Bank financed flats affected the
achievement of project objectives, and in particular the quality of the buildings.



13
1.4.   The Project Concept and Design
From the beginning the project was too ambitious. It was designed using assumptions about
conditions that did not exist in Albania. The privatization of state-owned buildings was in its initial
stages and a private housing market was virtually non-existent. People were very poor and had enormous
social problems inherited from the past to overcome. Thus, the housing policies that were designed for
the project were too ambitious and unrealistic for the conditions in Albania at the time.
2.     The Role of the National Housing Agency
The National Housing Agency was designed as an independent governmental institution that
would play a regulatory role in the housing market. However, the National Housing Agency was under
severe social and political pressure which eventually had a financial impact and affected the activities of
the institution. In 1999, however, the National Housing Agency covered its expenses and made a profit
from the sale of houses for the first time. This shows that the institution has the potential to operate in a
financially independent way, as was conceptualized in the beginning.
2.1.    The Effects of Institutional Development
During project implementation the National Housing Agency was trained in managing
procurement, supervision, and commissioning of the project houses. Also during this time the National
Housing Agency invested in housing completions across the country using different financing sources,
such as the credit from the World Bank, loans from the National Commercial Bank and the Savings
Bank, the State Budget, and Privatization Funds of the existing house stock.
This institutional development helped the National Housing Agency to strengthen itself and
become capable of implementing projects under these different programs in an independent way, using
its own resources.
3.    Lessons Learned
Albania emerged from the communist regime a very poor country, with poverty affecting a large
percentage of the population. Under these conditions, housing projects in Albania needed to be oriented
toward social housing programs to assist the very poor groups of the society.
ROLAND OLLI
GENERAL DIRECTOR
(b) Cofinanciers:
None.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
None.



14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Sales of Completed          Sales of Completed          Sales of Completed
Apartments US$22.5 million    Apartments 1,250 units    Apartments 1,067 units
Output Indicators:
Completion of Apartments:   Completion of Apartments:    Completion of Apartments:
2,800 units                 2,862 units                 2,862 units
End of project



15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I . Completion of Unfinished Housing
a. Land Sites and Infrastructure                         3.50                 2.50                 71
b. Construction (Sunk Cost)                             14.50                 10.50                72
c. Construction (Completion)                            17.00                 18.30               108
d. Design and Supervision                                0.70                 0.77                114
2. Technical Assistance                                    1.30                  1.50               115
3. Repair to Government Buildings                          0.00                 0.78
Total Baseline Cost                                       37.00                34.35
Physical Contingencies                                    1.20                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                       1.80                 0.00
Total Project Costs                          40.00                34.35
Total Financing Required                            40.00                34.35
Notes: Figures for Land Sites, Infrastructure, and Construction (sunk costs) are estimated.
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements Actual/Latest Estimate  (US$ million e uivalent
1. Works                            00.00019.07                                    0.00           19.07
(0.00)          00            (14.30)         (0.00)         (14.30)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.00             0.57           0.00           0.57
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.54)         (0.00)          (0.54)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00             0.21           1.50            1.71
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.21)         (0.00)          (0.21)
14. Sunk Cost                        0.00           0.00            0.00           10.50          10.50
l                          (0.00)        ~~~~~~(0.00)  (0.00)     (0.00)                 (0.00)
S. Land                             0.00           0.00             0.00           2.50           2.50
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                            0.00           0.00            19.85          14.50          34.35
___                            (0.00)         (0.00)          (15.05)         (0.00)        (15.05)
Notes.
NBF stands for not IDA-financed.
1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2. Other methods of procurement (total of US$3 million) include: (i) international shopping (US$0.9 million) and local shopping
(lJS$100,000) for machinery, vehicles and equipment, and (ii) consultancies (US$2.0 million) procured according to standard IDA
guidelines.



16
1. Completion of          15.00   23.50    0.00    14.43    17.64    0.00      96.2    75.1       0.0
Unfinished Housing 
2. Technical Assistance    0.00     0.00     I.S0     0.00    0.00     1.50      0.0      0.0    100.0
3. Repair of Damaged       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.62    0.16     0.00      0.0      0.0      0.0
Government Buildings       I_                  _            _
Note: All figures include physical and price contingencies.



17
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not carried out at the appraisal, as the project consisted of a number of subprojects
throughout the country with different levels of completion. In addition, at the time of appraisal in 1992, there
was no rental market and it was virtually impossible to determine the shadow rent value. However, in general,
the project most likely has a high economic rate of return. Almost all of the IDA-financed apartments are located
near the center of major cities, and are all occupied. More than 500 apartments (or 17 percent of the total
apartments financed under the project) are located in Tirana. In addition, the project managed to salvage
substantial sunk costs by providing funds for completion. As part of the completion exercise, a rapid survey of
about 1,800 IDA-financed apartments was carried out in collaboration with various Realtors in the country. The
outcome of the analysis is summarized in Table I below.
Table 1. Summary of the Assessment of the Market Value
of Apartments Completed under the Project
Total number of   Appraised Value
District             Apartments      1+1       2+1
BERAT                          123 $ 9,000.00
DURRES                         224 $ 19,000.00
ELBASAN                        354 $ 8,000.00
FIER                            17 $ 11,000.00
KAVAJE                         175            $ 9,000.00
KORCE                          122 $  9,000.00 $ 14,000.00
LUSHNJE                        109 $  9,000.00
SHKODER                        132 $ 13,000.00
TIRANE                         515             $ 25,000.00
Outlying Area             $ 16,000.00
Center City               $ 22,000.00
VLORE                          100             $ 23,000.00
TOTAL                     1,871
The economic rate of return for the project was calculated. To simplify the estimate, the following assumptions
were made:
Estimated market values of the apartments were considered as proxies for the economic value of the
apartments, as an informal housing market has developed, and no tax is yet involved in the transaction in the
informal market. Apartments in secondary cities in mountain areas such as Permet, Tropoje, and Gramesh
were considered to have an economic value of US$2,000-3,000.
A conversion Factor of 0.95 was used for the conversion from financial cost to economic cost, considering
the involvement of unskilled labor and prevailing unemployment.
The annual level of completion of the project was considered to be 50, 40, 4,4, 2 percent, considering the
record of actual progress of the project. The benefit of the project was estimated to have realized at 20, 30,
20, 15, 15 percent respectively each year from year 1 to 5. At completion, all apartments were occupied.
Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 51 percent.



18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Identification/Preparation          I    Uran Engineer
I    Architect
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 1993                 1    Urban Planner
I    Architect
Supervision                          3    1 Urban Planner, I Financial         HS                  HS
January 1994                        Analyst, I Legal Specialist
February 1994                   3    1 Urban Planner, I Financial         HS                 HS
Analyst, I Legal Specialist
April 1994                      3    1 Architect, I Credit Specialist,    HS                 HS
I Financial Analyst
June 1994                       3    1 Architect, I Credit Specialist,    HS                 HS
1 Financial Analyst
November 1994                   4   Economist, I Architect, I Credit       S                  S
Specialist, I Financial Analyst
May 1995                        4   Task Manager, I Architect, 1           S                  S
Credit Specialist, I Financial
Analyst
July 1995                       3    1 Task Manager, I Architect, I        S                  S
Financial Analyst
May 1996                        3    1 Economist, I Architect, I           U                  U
Project Officer
December 1996                  4    1 Task Manager, I Architect, I         U                  U
Financial Analyst, I Project
Officer
June 1997                      3    1 Economist, I Financial               U                  U
Management, I Project Officer
January 1998                    3    1 Economist, I Architect, I           U                  U
Project Officer
November 1998                   3    1 Economist, 1 Architect, I           S                  S
Project Officer
March 1999                     2    1 Project Officer, I Architect         S                  S
December 1999                   3    1 Economist, 1 Financial              S                  S
Specialist, 1 Project Officer
ICR
February 2000                  1     1 Economist, I Project                S                  S
Officer, I Financial
Specialist                   _                  _



19
(b) Staff:
The fusndBk dtn rustu
Identification/Preparation                    25.2                            82.1l
AppraisatUNegotiation                         31.3                            94 .9
Supervision                                  138.7                           373.7
ICR                                            6.0                            15 .6
Total                        _201.2                          i566.3
The figures include Bank Budget and Trust Funds.



20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Ratq
Macro policies                          NA
Sector Policies                         M
Physical                                SU
Financial                               N
Institutional Development               M
Environmental                           NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                 NA
Gender                            NA
Private sector development              M
Public sector management                M



21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                            Rating
Lending                                         U
Supervision                                     S
Overall                                         S
6.2 Borrower performance                        Ratine
Preparation                                     U
Government implementation performance           S
Implementation agency performance               S
Overall                                         S
From preparation to implementation, the Borrower Performance was considered marginally satisfactory.



22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Supplementary Tables for Financial Aspects of the Project During ICR Mission in February 2000.



