CREDIT NUMBER 2534 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Housing Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2534 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     6/    , 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA (the Borrowo) a     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   Parts A and B.2 of the Project will be carried out by
National Housing Agency (NHA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NHA the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
(C)   the Borrower has contracted from other sources of
finance grants to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements between the Borrower
and such other sources and is in the process of arranging for
further such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NHA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MOC" means the Ministry of Construction and Territorial
Planning of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(C)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan referred to in Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NHA pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e)   "NHA" means the National Housing Agency of the Borrower,
a state enterprise organized and existing under the law of the
Borrower on state enterprises Law No. 7582 of July 13, 1992,
established by the Council of Ministers of the Borrower pursuant to
Resolution No. 431 of December 10, 1992, as amended by Resolution
No. 198 of May 4th 1993;
(f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and National Housing Agency (NHA), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(g)   "Charter" means the legislation, regulations, charter,
by-laws and other similar instruments adopted by NHA or the
Borrower, or by any government agency having authority over NHA,
under which the organization, purposes, functions, powers, and scope
of operations of NHA are defined, as the same shall be amended from
time to time;
(h)   "Operational Policy Manual" means the manual or other
statement of operational policies and procedures of NHA described or
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement,
which is required to be adopted by NHA pursuant to Section 6.01 (c)
of this Agreement;
(i)   "Sub-project" means a specific    investment project
undertaken or proposed to be undertaken by NHA utilizing the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, which involves the completion of
construction and finishing of multi-family apartment buildings or
housing complexes selected by NHA from among the Unfinished Housing
Inventory, together with adoption and implementation of offering
plans providing for sale of dwelling units within such buildings or


﻿-3-
complexes to private households under condominium arrangements, as
described in the Condominium Property Law and Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
(j)   "Unfinished Housing Inventory" means the stock of assets
described in Decree No. 46 of the Council of Ministers of the
Borrower of January 29, 1993, whose disposition may from time to
time be subject to an authority conferred on NRA pursuant thereto or
pursuant to any other legislation, to select and develop as public
housing projects, including for purposes of inclusion in the Sub-
projects in accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
(k)   "Housing Privatization Act" means Law No. 7652 of the
Borrower of December 23, 1992, together with any implementing
legislation and administrative regulations issued by any public
agency which shall be necessary for the implementation of such law;
(1)   "Condominium Property Law" means Law No. 7688 of the
Borrower of March 17, 1993, together with any implementing legisla-
tion and administrative regulations adopted by any public agency
which shall be necessary for the implementation of such law;
(m)   "Property Transfer Arrangements" means the contractual,
administrative or other arrangements, to be concluded between the
Borrower and NHA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of thit Agree-
ment, providing for the timely transfer by the Borrower, upon
registration of the foundation deed for any condominium established
in respect of any Sub-project, of the buildings, land and infra-
structure constituting the Ancillary Property Contribution for such
Sub-project, following the procedures provided for under the
Condominium Property Law, the Charter, the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and any other legislation or administrative regulation which
shall be necessary for the implementation of the Project; and
(n)   "Ancillary Property Contribution" means the property
required to be contributed by the Borrower in execution of the
Project pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement and
Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and consisting, for any Sub-
project, of the buildings, land and infrastructure which are
associated with or relate to the Unfinished Housing Inventory and
which may be necessary to: (i) establish defined condominium
property in respect of such Sub-project; (ii) register the founda-
tion deed for a condominum relating to such property; and (iii) con-


﻿-4-
vey clear title to such property to purchasers under such terms and
conditions as shall be provided.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of , the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at


﻿-5-
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid.: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from


﻿-6-
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(C)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a.) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. NHA is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out Part B.1 of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, economic,
and urban development practices and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such
Part of the Project; and
(ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause NHA to perform all
its obligations set forth in the Project Agree-
ment, shall take or cause to be taken all ac-
tion, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable NHA to perform such obli-


﻿-7-
gations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
NA under a subsidiary loan (the Subsidiary Loan) under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, which shall be set forth
in an agreement between the Borrower and NHA (the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement). Among the terms and conditions to be set forth shall be
those pertaining to the utilization of such proceeds by NHA to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit in respect of Part A of the
Project, including, in particular:
(i)    a requirement that NHA utilize the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan exclusively for expenditures
incurred under Sub-projects;
(ii)    a description of contractual, administrative or
other arrangements adequately specifying the
manner of exercise by NHA, as and when needed in
order to facilitate the establishment of a
condominium in respect of any Sub-project, of
any power conferred by the Borrower to transfer
to purchasers of *condominium units. Rights in
respect of any buildings, land and infrastruc-
ture constituting the Ancillary Property Contri-
bution for such Sub-project (the Property Trans-
fer Arrangements); and
(iii)   a uniform procedure for the valuation of the
Ancillary Property Contribution upon transfer of
such property to a condominium association, for
purposes of facilitating the consistent applica-
tion by NHA of sound cost estimation principles
in connection with the establishment and imple-
mentation of a uniform pricing policy.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and in respect of the Property Transfer
Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A and B.2 of the Project shall be carried out by NHA pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part B.1 of the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as   -ail-
able, but in any case not later than six -nths
after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-9-
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
ciation has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
gether with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   NHA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NHA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The  Charter  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of NHA to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NHA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   The Housing Privatization Act    or the Condominium
Property Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived, or any other legislation shall have come into effect in
the territory of the Borrower, so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NHA; and
(b)   The Operational Policy Manual has been duly adopted by
NHA.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NHA, and is legally binding upon NHA in accordance with
its terms;


﻿- 11 -
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NHA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NHA in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that standard forms of agreement relating to terms and
conditions for the construction of Sub-projects; sale of a dwelling
pursuant to a condominium offering plan; and financng of purchases
of condominium units as proposed in conjunction with the operational
Policy Manual, are valid under the law of the Borrower and are
capable of being enforced in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date 28 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
'c    Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works under               10,000,000       75%
Subprojects
(2) Unallocated                 600,000
TOTAL                10,600,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
made for expenditures under any Sub-project unless such Sub-project
shall have been duly selected and appraised in accordance with the
criteria referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower
in the development of an efficient, market-based housing construc-
tion and finance system; (ii) to help alleviate the shortage of
housing in urban areas by completing unfinished public housing
projects; and (iii) to encourage the participation of private sector
firms which will be able to strengthen their capacity to respond to
anticipated long-term demands for housing in the territory of the
Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out Sub-projects in selected urban areas, consisting
of: (i) the completion of construction and finishing of identified
unfinished public housing projects, together with (ii) the provision
of the finished dwelling units within the completed housing projects
to eligible purchasers pursuant to plans providing for transfer of
ownership and management of such dwelling units under condominium
arrangements.
Part B:
Carrying out of a program to upgrade institutional capabili-
ties in order to facilitate the efficient development, financing and
management of the housing sector, including the provision of
technical assistance, staff training and office equipment to assist:
1.    MOC in: undertaking reform of housing finance and regulation
of urban development; monitoring of recent economic trends in the
housing sector; carrying out privatization; developing the regulato-
ry framework applicable to urban housing development; assisting
local authorities in the formulation and implementation of land use
and municipal regulations for housing development; and mobilization
of private resources for housing;


﻿- 15 -
2.    NHA in the review and design of legal and regulatory instru-
ments to be utilized for Part A of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
quests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required


﻿- 17 -
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replen-
ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only.
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special


﻿- 18 -
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


