OFFICAU1
CREDIT NUMBER 2534 ALB
Project Agreement
(Housing Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY
Dated                           , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2534 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /           , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASS IAT N (the Association) and NATIONAL
HOUSING AGENCY (NHA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to ten million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,600,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that NHA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NHA, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
NHA on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
'Agreement; and
(C)   by loan agreements entered into by NHA with the National
Bank of Albania (the National Bank Loan Agreement) and the Savings
Bank of Albania (the Savings Bank Loan Agreement) dated February
9th, 1993 and December 5th, 1992, respectively, NHA has obtained
long-term debt financing (the State Debts) to assist in funding its
operations, on terms and conditions set forth in the National Bank
Loan Agreement and the Savings Bank Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS NHA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of NHA
Section 2.01. (a) NHA declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B.2
of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, engineering, housing industry
and environmental protection practices, with qualified and experi-
enced management and in accordance with its Charter and Operational
Policy Manual, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Parts A and B.2 of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and NHA shall
otherwise agree, NHA shall carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) NHA undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, Sub-projects will be selected in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Annex I to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   NHA shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-
project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Association and of NHA; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works required for the Sub-projects and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. NHA shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A
and B.2 of the Project.
I


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. NHA shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, NHA shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) NHA shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A and B.2 of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   NHA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A and B.2 of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NHA of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.07. If any public resources shall be made available
to NHA for the purpose of financing activities in the area of
housing sector development in the territory of the Borrower, under
any program or facility other than that defined by the scope of the
Project, NHA shall take care to ensure the carrying out of such
program or facility under terms and conditions compatible with the
financial and operational policies herein established for the
Project, including with respect to the Terms and Conditions of Sale
of Condominium Units set forth in Annex II to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NHA shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts A and B.2 of
the Project and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of NHA.
(b)   NHA shall:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and


﻿-4-
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit there-
of, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request, including internal audits
which shall consist of a financial assessment
and a physical inspection of works in the field
on a sample basis.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NRA shall maintain, through appropriate pricing and other
policies, a level of income and other resources adequate to meet
when due all debt repayment obligations in respect of the State
Debts and any other debt contracted from public sources, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the National Bank Loan
Agreement, the Savings Bank Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and any other agreement which may be entered into between
NHA and any public authority providing for any such debt.
(b)   For purposes of this Section:
(i)    the term "debt" means any indebtedness of NHA
maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become


﻿-5-
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstand-
ing.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NHA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty-eight years after the date of
this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NHA of
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,


﻿-6-
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For NHA:
Enti Komb6tar i Banesave
Ministria e Nodrtimit, Strehimit Dhe
Rregullimite te territorit
Tirang, Albania
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NHA, or by NHA on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Director-General of NHA, or such other person or persons as the
Director-General shall designate in writing, and NHA shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
6'    Europe and Central Asia
NATIONAL HOUSING AGENCY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
Except as provided in Part B hereof, works, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works, goods and services estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
2.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract and in an aggregate of $2,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded after direct negotiations with contractors at
reasonable competitive prices in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to the first three contracts under local
shopping procedures set forth in Part B hereof, as well as each
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $600,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4


﻿-9-
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    Selection and Appraisal of Sub-projects
In carrying out Part A of the Project, NRA shall:
(a)   select from among the Unfinished Housing Inventory those
assets eligible to be included in Sub-projects, using criteria
acceptable to the Association including, inter alia, the Eligibility
Criteria for Sub-projects set forth in Annex I to this Schedule; and
(b)   appraise Sub-projects following procedures set forth in
the Operational Policy Manual.
2.    Operational Policies and Procedures of NHA
(a)   The policies and procedures applied by NRA in its
operations shall be embodied in a manual (the Operational Policy
Manual), which shall be approved by the Board of Directors of NHA
and updated as necessary to reflect changes in the operational
requirements relating to the Project.
(b)   The Operational Policy Manual shall contain a statement
of the procedures to be followed and the eligibility criteria to be
applied, acceptable to the Association, with respect to:
(i)    the establishment for each Sub-project of a
defined condominium property under a foundation
deed, including the exercise of any powers by
the Borrower pursuant to the Property Transfer
Arrangements with respect to the registration of
such foundation deed; and
(ii)    the offering for sale of condominium units under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion including, inter alia, the terms and condi-
tions for sale of condominium units set forth in
Annex II to this Schedule.
3.    Sales and Financing of Condominium Units
NHA shall carry out sales of condominium units to private
households in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in


﻿- 11 -
the Operational Policy Manual, using criteria acceptable to the
Association to determine whether applicants for financing of such
purchases would qualify for such financing.


﻿- 12 -
ANNEX I
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
under Part A of the Project
(a)   The unfinished buildings and complexes shall be located
in an. area affording access to existing public services and
community facilities.
(b)   Individual construction contracts shall be for buildings
or complexes containing no more than 48 dwelling units.
(c)   The time estimated to be required for completion of
construction contracts shall be no longer than 12 months.
(d)   All applicable local zoning and building regulations
shall be complied with, including by obtaining a valid building
permit where applicable.
(e)   Adequate standards for sanitation, water supply, energy
conservation and environmental protection shall be maintained
satisfactory to the Association.
(f)   Buildings and complexes shall be limited to those in
which:
(i)    all housing units are expected to be offered for
sale, and are reasonably certain to be sold
within a period of time after completion of
construction not to exceed six months, to indi-
vidual households;
(ii)    have no current occupants and are not pre-as-
signed to any tenants or owners; and
(iii)    assurances can be furnished in a form acceptable
to the Association, that a free and clear title
may be conveyed to the purchasers, including
exemption from any claims of restitution.
(g)   Designs shall be within a maximum net usable floor area
per flat of 75 square meters, or 100 square meters of built-up area.


﻿- 13 -
ANNEX II
Terms and Conditions of Sale of
Condominium Units
1.    Price
A uniform pricing policy would be established by NHA which
ensures recovery of all incremental costs incurred in completing the
units. The average Dollar price per square meter of net usable floor
area would be established at the beginning of each semester, based
on the cost experience of units completed during the previous
semester.
2.    Interest Rate Applicable to Financing of Purchase of Condomin-
ium Unit
At least 3 per cent per annum would be charged on the
outstanding principal amount, expressed in Dollars.
3.    Method of Calculating Payment Amount Due
Sale prices would be denominated in Dollars, with repayment in
leks at prevailing rate of exchange, adjusted quarterly, except as
agreed by the Association. A reasonable cap on increases per quarter
would be set by NHA upon making loans to purchasers of dwelling
units, based on prevailing market conditions and as agreed with the
Association.
4.    Closing Costs
Two percent of the loan amount, which may be capitalized.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


