Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25576
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43230)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
03/14/2003



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
JD I = US$ 1.41
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.71
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CC          Community Colleges                 NTP          National Training Program
GOJ         Government of Jordan               OED          Operations Evaluation Department
IBRD        International Bank for             OM           Operations Manual
Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion          PAD          Project Appraisal Document
Report- 
IP        : Implementation Progress           PCSU       :Project Coordination and Support Unit
JOD       . Jordanian Dinars                   PIU .J Project Implementation Unit
LA          Loan Agreement                     PSR        . Project Status Report
LC          Local Committees                   RFP          Request for Proposal
LMIS     _  Labor Market Informnation System  ISA         . Special Account
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation          SOE        . Statement of Expenditures
MIS         Management Information             SPP        : Social Productivity Progran
_   System                           __       _
MOL       . Ministry of Labor                  QIZ        . Qualified Industrial Zone
MOP         Ministry of Planning               TA           Technical Assistance
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding        TESP         Training and Employment Support
_______ _  _____________________________ _          Project
MSE         Monitoring, Studies and Evaluation  TFC       . Training Fund Component
NA        . Not applicable or Not Available  _  TFEC      . Training Fund Executive Conmmittee
NAF         National Aid Fund                  TOR        : Terms of Reference
NCHRD       National Center for Human          TVET       : Technical Vocational Education and
Resources Development                           Training
NIC         National Information Center        UNDP      .   United Nations Development Program
NGO       . Nongovernmental Organizations      VTC       I   Vocational Training Corporation
NSC         National Steering Committee        WA            Withdrawal Application
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Bassam Ramadan



JORDAN
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                        34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             43






Project ID: P052297                                       Project Name: TRAINING & EMPL.
Team Leader: Bassam Ramadan                               TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 14, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: TRAINING & EMPL.                               LIC/TFNumber: SCL-43230
Country/Department: JORDAN                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (17%);
Vocational training (62%); General industry and
trade sector (21%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/03/1997                              Effective: 08/31/1998         07/07/1998
Appraisal:  09/12/1997                                MTR: 08/15/2000            09/27/2001
Approval:  05/19/1998                              Closing: 02/28/2002          09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN/MINISTRY OF LABOR
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Joseph P. Saba                             Inder Sud
Sector Manager:      Jacques Baudouy                            Jacques F. Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:  Bassam Ramadan                             Zafiris Tzannatos
ICR Primary Author:   John Cameron; Roger Pearson
and Bassam Ramadan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
By early 1995, the Government of Jordan (GOJ) had identified the role of macro factors for growth
and employment creation. These included reform programs which were expected to increase investment,
contain the size of the public sector, and increase private sector activity. The Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) objectives in support of the forgoing priorities included:
(a) Strengthen private sector development by improving linkages between training and employers'
needs which will contribute to the growth of private sector training and private employment
services.
(b) Remove human capital constraints to growth by reducing the effective cost of training and
targeting the poor, the project was designed to increase the skills base and help reduce constraints
to growth.
(c) Reduce unemployment and poverty in a substantial way by targeting the poor among the
unemployed and inducing Jordanians to undertake work currently performed by non-Jordanians.
In order to address the above objectives, and stem the country's rising levels of poverty and
unemployment, GOJ embarked upon the formulation of the donor-assisted Social Productivity Program
(SPP). This program comprised four major components designed to better target the poor and unemployed,
namely:
(i) providing demand-driven training targeted to the poor;
(ii) improving targeting and social assistance programs by the National Aid Fund (NAF);
(iii) providing essential infrastructure to improve the living conditions of the poor; and
(iv) providing credit facilities to promote micro-enterprise development to create productive jobs.
Component (i) resulted in the preparation of the Training and Employment Support Project
(TESP). The Development Objective (DO) of TESP was to pilot test the demand for, and the effectiveness
and efficiency of, employer based training supported by a Training Fund. This objective is clear and
straightforward, and provides an appropriate foundation upon which to build the project components,
design delivery mechanisms, and allocate the required resources. Achievement of the project objective was
to be measured by participation rates and socio-economic profile of trainees, participation rates by
employers, training cost, retention rates of trainees following completion of training, and the relative
efficiency of employer-based training vs. training delivered by public institutions.
The project design concept was based on working with individual companies or employer groups
to:
(i) identify specific skills required in their workforce;
(ii) collaborate in the definition of training initiatives that would address the required skill
development;
(iii) identify training providers, either in house or externally;
(iv) select candidates from the poorest sectors of society who demonstrated an aptitude for, and
willingness to undertake training; and
(v) provide financial resources to cover the cost of training.
- 2 -



The elements of the design concept are considered to have a logical progression and to be holistic
in nature.
As a component of the SPP that was administered by the Ministry of Planning, MOP was assigned
a policy oversight mandate, while the Ministry of Labor (MOL) was assigned the role of executing agency.
A Project Steering Committee was established, including representatives from chambers of commerce and
industry, unions and relevant government departments. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established to implement the project, and a Training Fund Executive Committee (TFEC) established to
provide transparency of implementation by reviewing and approving training activities above a designated
value. All roles and responsibilities of the relevant parties were documented in a Project Operations
Manual (OM) prior to commencement of project activities.
The design of the foregoing structure is considered to be satisfactory in terms of achieving the
development objectives. At various stages during implementation, the mandates assigned to the respective
parties were not fully respected, resulting in inappropriate decision making. This should not reflect,
however, on Quality at Entry.
Three project risks were noted in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), all of which were rated
low. Two of these refer to employer responses to the project and the other suggests that the project's
targeting mechanisms may be too restrictive. Political opposition to the granting of public funds to the
private sector is also identified in the PAD as an area of "possible controversy". It is clear that this "flag"
was not adequate to prevent the impasse occurring between the MOL and the Bank which eventually
resulted in closure of the project prior to the revised closing date and prior to the disbursement of all project
funds (see Section 5.3). This issue should have been rated as a risk.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's original development objective was not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
Three components were designed for the project.
(a) Training Fund Component (TFC) (US$5.0 million). In-service training of short duration (up
to six months) and related services (such as occupational needs analysis and employment
intermediation) that are necessary for the unemployed to fill new vacancies were supported by
the component. The training was: (i) identified by employers; (ii) in-service though not
necessarily on-the-job; (iii) provided by the employers themselves or by public and private
training organizations; and (iv) undertaken by new recruits (incremental employment) drawn
from the unemployed.
(b) Monitoring. Studies and Evaluation (MSE) Component (US$0.3 million). This component
was designed to fund surveys, assessments and studies to evaluate the wage and employment
impact of the intervention of the project.
(c) Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU) Component (US$0.7 million). PIU operational expenditure
was funded by this component.
-3-



The ICR assesses the three components to be directly related to the achievement of the development
objective, and to be generally within the capacity of a well resourced PIU and MOL to implement
satisfactorily.
Because this project was essentially a pilot project, there were few prior lessons which could be
drawn upon by its designers. However, one key lesson from Bank experience was that more effective and
cheaper employer specific training can be provided in the workplace than that provided by the public
sector. This project clearly built on this lesson.
3.4 Revised Components:
None of the three components were revised during project implementation but it is clear that the
second component, Monitoring, Studies and Evaluation, was refined and developed during implementation.
The component was effectively broken down into three subcomponents. These sub-components were noted
in the Loan Agreement to be: (i) carrying out surveys, assessments, and studies to evaluate the productivity
and employment impact of Training Fund sub-projects; (ii) the creation of a national database for training
providers; and (iii) carrying out a nationwide study to compare the productivity and employment outcome
of the project with existing vocational training programs. The refinements that did occur during project
implementation did not amount to a restructuring and, accordingly, were not reported to the Executive
Directors.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objective was consistent with the CAS and it was in line with the GOJ's priorities at
the time. The PAD identified a number of "low" operational risks that did not transpire and it noted that
one controversial aspect of the project was the use of public funds to train people for the private sector.
This problem may have been better addressed by a closer evaluation of the cost of other training programs
and the cost of any social programs for the unemployed.
TESP became effective less than two months after Board approval. This indicates that project
preparation successfully covered key implementation issues as is evidenced by the fact that: (i) the PIU
was operational and largely staffed at the time the project became effective; (ii) the Training Fund
Executive Committee (TFEC) was operative; (iii) the Local Committees (LCs) had been established in all
governorates; (iv) the Program Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU) had been formed at the MOP; and
(v) the project's operational manual was complete.
As a result, some aspects of the project design were not implemented as intended. During the early
stages of project implementation, the PCSU that was established by the MOP with a mandate to undertake
policy oversight and coordination of all SPP components, attempted to extend its mandate into direction
and approval of project implementation activities. This situation ultimately lead to the resignation of the
first PIU Project Director. In the intermediate phase, the project was implemented as designed and, during
this period, made strong progress towards achieving the project objectives. This experience would tend to
validate the administrative aspects of the project design in terms of operational efficiency. During the last
phase of implementation, all project decisions were taken at the ministerial level within the MOL. This
situation arose attendant upon the introduction of a new National Training Program (NTP) that, while
incorporating a number of the principles of the TESP project, was founded upon financial flows, trainee
recruitment, and selection of training provider that could not be reconciled with those of TESP. Inability to
reconcile these factors ultimately resulted in the cancellation of the project.
-4 -



At a lower level of project implementation, LCs housed in the govemorate offices of the MOL were
assigned a mandate to provide a significant measure of support at the local level. This nature of this
support was to be seen in promotion of the project with potential employers, identification of trainees, and
screening of applications. During implementation, Local Committees only partially fulfilled their assigned
function. Due to lack of incentives being provided to these public sector employees, tasks were rarely
completed on schedule and little value was added through their inclusion. The gap was however closed by
the efforts of the PIU with no major impact on the achievement of project objectives.
Key performance indicators included in Annex I of the PAD are deemed to be both general and
subjective in nature. These indicators did, however, provide a basis for the development of more specific
indicators by the PIU Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) staff of the PIU and reported in the quarterly
Project Progress Reports. A comprehensive set of performance indicators was subsequently developed for
inclusion in the TOR's for a project impact assessment study.
In spite of the weaknesses outlined, quality at entry is rated by the ICR as satisfactorv because: (i)
the project objective was in line with the GOJ and Bank policies; (ii) the project became effective within
two months of Board approval and all fundamental project procedures were in place at that time; and (iii)
the administrative arrangements incorporated into the project design were able to deliver a satisfactory
result.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Proiect outcome is assessed to be satisfactorv because the project achieved its development
objective. That is, it successfully pilot tested the demand for, and the effectiveness and efficiency of,
employer-based training supported by a training fund. As noted in Section 4.2, major planned project
outputs were achieved, project costs were substantially below those envisaged during project preparation,
the methodology employed by TESP was successful despite some weaknesses, and a number of important
lessons have been leamed which should greatly enhance any future demand driven training program.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Pilot Training Fund
This component was the cornerstone of the project. Its purpose was to support in-service training
of short duration (up to six months) and related support services (such as occupational needs analysis and
employment mediation) that were necessary for the unemployed to fill new vacancies. Data from the PAD
notes that the project was to fund approximately 7,000 job seekers.
During the mid-term review (September 2001), the GOJ requested the Bank to consider extending
the loan for a further two years to February 28, 2004, on the basis that the extension would serve to further
realize the project's development objective. This request was made six months before the end of the
project. At that time, the target of assisting 7,000 job seekers had effectively been met but because the
cost of providing training had been lower than originally anticipated, funds were available to continue the
program for a further two years. At the time of the decision to extend the project, the Tracer Study had not
been completed so project records were the data used to evaluate progress at that stage. The Bank
supported this request because of policy directions taken by the GOJ which underlie the TESP philosophy
- 5-



and because the GOJ had demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project and the part it plays in
SPP.
Component objectives were met. Full details of the impact of the component may be found in the
Tracer Study and Impact Assessment Report. Key data includes: (i) 6,143 trainees were employed under
TESP of whom 99.5 percent were unemployed prior to training; (ii) 64 percent of trainees were female;
(iii) 84.7 percent of trainees were in employment at the time of the Tracer Study (1 to 3 years after the
completion of their training); (iv) average trainee earnings before training (and employmnent) was JD 34 per
month and JD 114 after training; (v) average family income before training was JD 92 per month and JD
189 per month after training; (vi) 82 percent of training took place on the job and 35 percent was
undertaken partially in training centers; (vii) 810 employers participated in the project; (viii) 75 percent of
employers were satisfied with the training provided by the program; (ix) 57 percent of companies
participating in the project had fewer than 10 employees; and (x) about 66 percent of trainees were
concentrated in the country's two main governorates, Irbid in the north and Amman in the center.
Overall, the component is rated satisfactory because its objectives were met and a large number of
poor people were assisted into sustainable employment.
Component 2: Monitoring, Studies, and Evaluation
Component 2 was designed to provide surveys, assessments and studies to evaluate the wage and
employment irnpact of the project and to develop project databases. The three sub-components are
discussed separately.
(a) Surveys, assessments and studies to evaluate the impact of Training Fund Sub-projects. The
major work to be undertaken in this sub-component was the Tracer Study and Impact Assessment. In
1999, a contract was awarded to undertake the Tracer Study. This contract was sole sourced to an
individual consultant based on TORs that were subsequently deemed to be lacking in specificity. This
study was to have been completed prior to the mid-term review. The resultant report was assessed to
be unsatisfactory and it was decided that the work should be undertaken again with some Bank
assistance. This assistance comprised the preparation of a new set of TORs and the development of a
comprehensive set of indicators, extending beyond those locally measured in a tracer study, into those
that would assess the overall impact of the project. Initiation of the second study was delayed due to a
requirement to follow both Bank and local govemment procurement regulations. Work on the second
report (Tracer Study and Impact Assessment) started in February 2002 and was completed by an
independent local consulting firm in July 2002. This survey, covering a random sample of 1000
trainees and 80 employers, explored the social, economic and education profiles of trainees;
employment and retention rates; earnings; and, employer/employee satisfaction levels; through the lens
of some 43 indicators. Data sets to serve these indicators were drawn from a combination of project
monitoring and evaluation records and field surveys. This document provides an excellent assessment
of the impact of the TESP intervention.
As part of its project monitoring function, the PIU developed a comprehensive set of recording
procedures and an electronic project database. Procedures were rigorously adopted and the in-house
system enabled the status of any training contract to be readily accessed. The database was well
maintained and it provided invaluable data to the consultants who prepared the Tracer Study. The
database was made available to the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) at project closure and
they advised that it was their intention to review the system with the view to adapting it to their
requirements if it were suitable.
-6 -



(b) Creation of national database of training providers. This sub-component was completed. It
provides a comprehensive database of public and private training providers offering programs of less
than six months duration which employers can access when evaluating their training requirements. The
database is hosted at the National Information Center and it can be accessed over the intemet. The
project recommended that the database be embodied within the National Labor Market Information
System and it has been pointed out that funding for the maintenance of the database will be critical for
its continued utility.
(c) Nationwide comparative study. This study was not started.
Even though the nationwide comparative study was not started and the first tracer study was
unsatisfactory the component is rated satisfactorg. The reasons for this determination are: (i) the excellent
work undertaken by the PIU with the overall monitoring and evaluation system which it developed; (ii) the
national database of training providers; and (iii) the comprehensive analysis provided by the second Tracer
and Impact Assessment Study. It is apparent that the completed Tracer Study does go part of the way in
providing the information that would have been provided by the nationwide comparative study.
Component 3: Project Implementation Unit
The PIU, which was located in the MOL, was responsible for the day-to-day administration and
implementation of the project. The TFEC was designed to: (i) assist the Minister; (ii) provide policy
advice; and (iii) approve training proposals over a certain monetary threshold. On a local level, Local
Committees (LCs) were charged with assisting the PIU in the promotion of TESP message, evaluation, and
submission of proposals to the PIU.
Implementation arrangements of the project worked well but there were a number of clear
weaknesses. First, due to the number of bureaucratic layers, the LCs did not have the incentives or
resources to do the job which was intended of them, and the PIU did not have the outreach to supplement or
replace the LCs function, particularly as the project was implemented nationwide. Second, TFEC assumed
responsibility for operational decision making outside its assigned mandate period. These responsibilities
should have been undertaken by the PIU, thus enhancing the efficiency of decision making. This would
have resulted in more efficient implementation but the MOL resisted the notion. Third, the PIU did not
have professional training expertise on staff and as a consequence it was not able to assist small (or other)
employers in the design of their training plans. It was difficult for untrained PIU staff to evaluate proposed
training plans. Competent trainers employed by the PIU could have developed training templates around
which employers could have worked.
In addition to the contractual audit requirements, the PIU received technical assistance from its
auditors on many aspects of its day to day and developmental operations. It is clear that the services
provided by the auditors contributed significantly to the operation of the PIU and the development of its
computer systems.
This component is rated satisfactory in view of the fact that it successfully administered the
implementation of a satisfactory project and because there were significant geographic, institutional and
financial issues and restrictions which it was able to successfully negotiate.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
- 7 -



The projected economic rate of return was not calculated in the PAD. It is not appropriate to
attempt to include it in the ICR. However, anecdotal evidence suggests that the economic rate of return
from the project is positive because most personnel trained by the project (84.7 percent) were still employed
at the time the Tracer Study was completed and it is reasonable to assume that the economic (and financial)
benefits from this employment exceeded the economic (and financial) costs. It is highly unlikely that a
rational employer would retain the services of an employee if there were not an economic (and financial)
benefit from doing so.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As with the economic rate of return, the financial rate of return was not included in the PAD and it
is not included in the ICR.
Even though a financial analysis was not undertaken, the cost of training under the project should
be noted. The PAD anticipated training costs of approximately JD500 per trainee but actual costs were
substantially below this amount. The gap between estimated and actual training costs is attributable to a
low level of utilization of intermediation services accessed by employers. Had these services been more
widely used it is reasonable to anticipate that the result would have been an increase in the scope of training
provided, with a resultant broadening of the overall employability of trainees. The Tracer Study has
estimated that the average training cost subsidized by TESP is 40 percent lower than other training
programs for the same duration. By way of example, the cost of sewing (clothes) trainees was JD200 per
trainee under TESP compared to JD300 per trainee outside the TESP system. The cost of training through
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) and the National Training Program (NTP) is understood to be
substantially higher again than the cost estimates included in the Tracer Study.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's PIU was established within the MOL and the Project Director was hired from outside
the MOL. When the project was closed, the PIU office was closed and the staff were disbanded. It is clear
that the current administration within the MOL is not in favor of the approach taken by TESP or its
philosophy; therefore, it is unlikely that the Ministry will obtain any benefits from the TESP experiences in
the short term. Project activities in the country's governorates were largely undertaken by part time
personnel from other government agencies who have simply returned to their full time positions. It would
be incorrect to say that there would be no institutional and personal development resulting from the project
simply because many people were involved in the project. Nevertheless, overall institutional development
impact could be expected to be negligible.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and (Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Poverty levels in Jordan increased rapidly from about 3 percent in the late 1980s to around 14
percent in 1992 as a result of the Gulf War when remittances from abroad declined and Jordanian workers
returned home. Poverty levels declined to around 12 percent in 1997 but again increased to around 13.5
percent in 2001 as a consequence of ongoing political conflict in the region with resulting regional trade
constraints and low rates of investment. Unemployment rates are high in Jordan and the problem is
exacerbated for Jordanians by the influx of workers from other countries in the region. Despite the
downturn in regional trade some industrial sectors (garment manufacture for example) have successfully
- 8-



tapped into European and North American markets and this has resulted in demand for unskilled and
semiskilled labor in some sectors. TESP was able to manage within this difficult environment by providing
training assistance to unskilled, unemployed Jordanian workers. Whilst training does not create jobs, it is
clear that the training provided to unemployed Jordanians by the project boosted their competitiveness with
workers from the region. Nevertheless, it is probable that other (trained) workers would have filled the jobs
filled by the TESP trainees had TESP not been implemented.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As noted in Section 3.1, the project design assigned a policy oversight mandate to MOP and a
project management and implementation mandate to MOL. In the early stages of project implementation,
these mandates were not fully respected. This had a significant impact on the project as the Social
Productivity Program (SPP) Unit staff at the MOP became involved in day-to-day management issues
originally within the mandate of the MOL. This confusion in interpreting mandates at times resulted in
slow processing of project transactions. The need to balance the MOP's overall control and monitoring of
the SPP with delegating more autonomy to the MOL in the day-to-day execution of the project proved to be
a challenging task to Bank supervision staff. The GOJ should have acted swiftly to overcome impediments
resulting from confusion in mandates when it became evident that some key administrative arrangements
were problematic.
The single most important action which impacted on the project was the decision to close down
TESP some seventeen months prior to the revised closing date. The MOL advised the Bank some six
months after the loan was extended (see Section 4.2) for a further two years that it wished to adapt the
implementation of the project to ensure consistency of operation with other programs. After a careful
review, the Bank concluded that the changes requested by the MOL would not be consistent with the Loan
Agreement and because the MOL no longer supported the TESP approach, there was little alternative other
than to mutually agree to close the project. This impasse was communicated to-MOP who without the data
contained in the Impact Assessment Study that had yet to be completed, did not feel that they had the
policy-linked evidence to intervene. The impact of this decision was major and it resulted in significantly
reducing the number of unemployed people that could be assisted by the extended project. The ICR
estimates that if the project had been allowed to run until the revised closing date (February 2004) it would
have likely assisted ten to twelve thousand unemployed people rather than the seven thousand it assisted
within the existing project budget.
There is little doubt that the project had a positive impact on a significant number of poor and
unemployed Jordanians. It is clear that without continuing support from the MOL, the project could not be
concluded as originally planned and as revised. Because TESP was being effective and achieving its
development objective in areas not covered by other GOJ's programs, the GOJ should have actively
mediated in the perceived problem areas in an attempt to ensure continuing implementation. This is a
major issue, particularly in view of the fact that the GOJ assured the Bank of its commitment to the project
prior to effectiveness and affirmed its intention to continue the operation of the principles developed by the
project once the pilot phase was concluded and results from the Tracer Study were shown to be positive.
The delay in the preparation of the Tracer Study turned out to be a major problem because the GOJ's
decision to close the project prior to the extended closing date was taken before the positive impact of
TESP was documented.
It should be noted that the decision to close the project was made without reference to the primary
stakeholders i.e. employers and beneficiary trainees/employees. This identifies an important lesson learned
regarding the inclusion of mechanisms in the design of innovative experimental projects that ensure
-9-



consultation and participation in decision making of primary stakeholders when the interests of these
stakeholders are under consideration.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The mandate of the executing agency covered facilitating the establishment of Local Committees,
ensuring efficient staffing, management and operation of the Project Implementation Unit and supporting
the implementation of project activities. As has been noted previously, LC were found not to add
significant value to the achievement of project outcomes as the duties they were assigned were incremental
to their existing duties, and were expected to be undertaken without incremental compensation. MOL
however, continued to support their participation in the project. The fact that the LC's were less than
effective, did not ultimately affect project outcomes.  Tasks such as project promotion, employer
identification, and identification of trainees that were assigned to LCs in the project design were
subsequently covered off by the PIU where necessary. In terms of staffing the PIU, MOL identified and
retained competent and dedicated personnel for all positions. Staff retention was high which contributed to
the progressive development of project management systems and their effectiveness. One change occurred
during the course of the project at the PIU Director level. Both Project Directors however provided
committed effort towards achieving the project design outcome as evidenced through the Project Impact
Assessment Study.
During the course of project implementation, it became apparent that many of the smaller
employers did not have the capacity to design the required training interventions with any clarity. While
they were assisted in this task by the PIU to the extent possible, the PIU also did not have depth of skills in
training program design. This issue was foreseen at the time of project design, and resources were
provided for the PIU and beneficiaries to access intermediation services. This facility was either not
understood or not used by the PIU and in consequence the training delivered in small companies tended to
be informal in nature. The retention rate after training however shows no significant variance between
small and large companies which suggests that all employers understood the intent of the program and
provided relevant training within their means.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs are estimated to be US$2.26 million or about 38 percent of the appraisal
estimate of US$6 million. Expenditure in both the Training Fund and PIU Components was below the
appraisal estimate (29 percent and 69 percent of the appraisal estimate, respectively) but expenditure on the
Monitoring, Studies and Evaluation Component was 13 percent above the Appraisal estimate. The major
reason why total project costs are below appraisal estimates is the cost of the training provided by the
project. The PAD estimated that training costs would be about JD500 per trainee but the Tracer Study
shows that actual costs were substantially below this estimate. Costs shown in the Tracer Study varied
from JD50 per trainee for men's hairdressing and security guards to JD200 per trainee for sewing trainees.
The total number of people trained by TESP was approximately equal to the 7,000 planned by the project
and the project was implemented over a period approximately seven months longer than originally planned.
Even though total project expenditure was below the PAD estimate, the Bank's percentage share of
total expenditure (82 percent) is in line with the PAD estimate. The GOJ percentage share of actual total
project expenditure (14 percent) is slightly up on the appraisal estimate largely because UNDP funding for
PIU staff salaries and operating expenses was withdrawn and this was taken up by the GOJ. Actual
funding by UNDP was approximately US$0.08 million compared to an estimated US$0.3 million at
appraisal.
-10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of this project may be assessed in three ways. First, sustainability of benefits
accruing to people trained under TESP; second, the sustainability of the mechanism trialled by TESP; and
third, the sustainability of the TESP initiative per se and the data and systems generated by the initiative.
Data collected by the Tracer Study and the PIU shows quite clearly that people trained by the
TESP program have, in general terms, remained employed once training was completed. The Tracer Study
shows that 84.7 percent of the trainees that benefited from TESP were still employed at the time of the
TESP survey (May and June 2002). The retention rate was 86.6 percent and 78.9 percent for females and
males, respectively. Data collected by the PIU is consistent with the Tracer Study finding, although the
retention rate is slightly lower. The reason for this is that the PIU survey only covered the trainees' first
employers and data was collected at the end of the six month contract period while the Tracer Study
tracked employees' movements up to the time of the survey. The data shows that some trainees have
moved to other employers; presumably to better jobs. The Tracer Study also found that 99.5 percent of all
trainees were unemployed before the TESP training. It is clear that the unemployed who benefited from the
program have been provided with prerequisite employment skills and that these skills are being used in
income generation employment. The ICR finds that this aspect of the sustainability issue is highly likely.
Sustainability of the mechanism tested by TESP is also rated as highly likely if there were
sufficient political will and adequate financial support. It is clear from the TESP initiative that employers
and trainers support the TESP concept, that training to achieve acceptable vocational skills can be
delivered relatively inexpensively when compared to other training programs, that the administration of the
program could be refined to be more efficient, and that skills leamed by the trainees are retained and do
result in sustained employment. Clearly though, without political will and financial support from either the
Government or employers the program cannot be sustained.
Because of the decision to close TESP, to disband the training delivery mechanism developed by
the project, and to revert to a supply driven training approach, the immediate benefits from the delivery
mechanism developed by TESP will not be sustained. Accordingly, the sustainability of the project from
this perspective can only be assessed as unlikely. During project implementation, two systems were
established by TESP: the trainer database and the monitoring and evaluation system. Both these systems
were implemented successfully and during the ICR mission they were made available to the GOJ's VTC to
consider incorporating them into its management system. It is also important to recognize that the TESP
mechanism has been tested, and that the key lessons from the project will always be available should the
Government wish to reintroduce a similar program on a more permanent basis.
Overall, the sustainabilitv of the benefits achieved by the proiect is rated unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements to regular operations are not a consideration because the project has been
terminated and the mechanism used for the delivery services provided by the project closed down. The
GOJ's vocational training program is now centered on the NTP which does not support the TESP demand
driven approach.



7. Bank and Borrower Peirfoirmance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The GOJ development priorities and the CAS were supported by the implementation of TESP
particularly because it supported an intervention that helped stem Jordan's rising levels of poverty and
unemployment amongst the poor, albeit on a trial basis.
One of TESP's greatest attributes was its relatively simple development objective. This enabled
the preparation and implementation team to focus project activities so that an effective evaluation of the
demand driven approach to training could be made. As is noted in Section 3.5 (Quality at Entry), TESP
became effective less than two months after Board approval. At this time most, if not all, major
operational procedures were in place. This demonstrates that preparation had covered key implementation
issues successfully.
TESP was relatively small in terms of total budget (US$6 million) but large in terms of the
innovations it was trying to introduce into the sector. Discussion in the ICR has noted some points of
vulnerability in the project design including: (i) implementation arrangements involving multiple GOJ
ministries; (ii) convoluted administrative and approval arrangements; (iii) gaps in PIU staffing in the
fundamental area of training; and (iv) weak project monitoring indicators. The project may have benefited
from more resources during project preparation, particularly in view of the fact that it was attempting to
demonstrate a significantly different approach to an important GOJ service. Clearly, preparation inputs are
influenced by budget constraints.
Despite the apparent shortcomings in some aspects of project design, Bank lending is rated
satisfactory because: (i) of the confonnity of the project to the Borrower's development priorities and the
CAS; (ii) the readiness of the project for implementation; (iii) the focus of the project on one specific
outcome; and (iv) the fact that the project as designed readily achieved its development objective well
within budget.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision missions occurred frequently but team composition could have been more appropriate,
particularly in the early stages of implementation. A total of eight supervision missions took place between
June 1998 and April 2002, and during this time there were two task team leaders. It is difficult to be
unequivocal with comments on the task team's skills mix because specialty descriptions can be misleading
and because people can have dual roles, but it appears that the supervision team lacked a training specialist
during the first two years of project implementation. This problem was overcome in 2000 and it seems that
the quality of supervision improved in the latter part of the project implementation period. During this
period, the task team provided substantial technical support on a range of issues during missions and
during frequent communications with the World Bank Field Office in Beirut. Additionally, and
importantly, the last task team leader was field based and this greatly enhanced the Bank's response to the
client. This task team conducted workshops on a range of topics and visited the field during every mission.
The ICR reviewed fourteen PSRs from June 1998 to July 2002. This review shows that the task
team has been rigorous in recording project progress but there are a number of weaknesses mainly: (i) only
one of the PSRs contains managers' comments; (ii) none of the PSRs contain actual versus target
- 12 -



performance indicators; and (iii) the only entry in the Summary of Key Issues and Actions section of all the
PSRs concerns the preparation of the Tracer Study. This lack of key information and comment make
project review difficult.
Two further problems should be noted. First, the mid term review took place in September 2001,
some three years and two months into project implementation and only five months before the original
project closing date. The extension of closing date was recommended by this mid term review. The project
would likely have benefited from an earlier review and it is noted that it was originally planned for May
2000. Second, the first tracer study was reported in a PSR dated July 2001 to be of limited value. This
study was contracted to the Department of Statistics and to a local consultant in 1999 yet it took over
eighteen months to determine that the outcome was unsatisfactory. More focused supervision should have
identified this problem for this major study which may have provided the evidence needed to convince the
MOL to continue with the project.
Project implementation did not involve any significant deviations from Bank policies and
procedures. Supervision performance has, at best, been mixed. It is clear though that it improved
substantially in the later part of the project's life and that this contributed to the project's positive outcome.
It is for this reason that Bank supervision is rated satisfactorv.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
While there are aspects of the Bank's lending and supervision performance that could have been
improved, the overall lending and supervision performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. The basis of
this evaluation is: (i) the identification of a project consistent with the GOJ and Bank development
strategies; (ii) the assistance provided to the Borrower during project preparation; (iii) the Bank's response
to the Borrower's request for the extension of the project and its attempt to resolve the issues associated
with the project's closure; and (iv) the intensity and skills mix of supervision missions and the tasks team's
readiness to assist the Borrower with day to day project management matters, particularly in the latter part
of the implementation period.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Stakeholder commitment during project preparation was excellent. The GOJ should, perhaps, have
made a greater effort to ensure that implementation arrangements involving the MOL and MOP were more
straightforward and that the disbursement approval mechanism was less complex. Nevertheless, the GOJ
personnel were diligent during project preparation as is evidenced by the speed with which the project
became effective after Board presentation. Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In the main, the GOJ support for the project during implementation was very good and
implementation Rerformance is rated satisfactory. The main exception to this finding is the issue relating to
the cancellation of the project prior to the revised closing date. It appears that the GOJ left this decision to
the MOL despite its earlier commitments to the project, its commitment to implement project principles
after the project closed, and its undertakings when the project was extended. Additionally, counterpart
funds were flagged as being problematic twice during implementation. In both instances, the problem
appears to have related to the complex approval and disbursement arrangement involving the MOL, MOP,
the Government Auditor, and the Ministry of Finance.
- 13 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
In general, the PIU managed the project most effectively. In particular the PIU: (i) was able to
successfully identify its clients; (ii) identified, consulted with, and partnered with the private sector to
achieve the project objective; (iii) promoted the project nationwide; (iv) conducted effective training
workshops; (v) developed and implemented a monitoring system; (vi) developed a trainers database; and
(vii) ensured project funds were administered according to the GOJ's and the Bank's criteria. The PIU was
ably assisted during the project's implementation period by its independent auditors who provided
comprehensive operational support and recommendations.
The major weakness of the PIU was its incapacity: (i) to provide advice to client employers on
training needs and the design of training programs; and (ii) to monitor training outcomes more effectively.
Both these weaknesses are largely a function of inadequate budget for qualified staff and gap in project
design. As far as the MOL is concerned, perhaps the fundamental weakness identified by the ICR was a
lack of support to change project management arrangements to improve implementation efficiency. This
had a significant, but not insurmountable, impact on the PIU to pursue its mandate.
In view of the benefits achieved by the project from the work undertaken by the PIU and the
efficiency with which it was achieved, the performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
All aspects of the Borrower's performance through project preparation, appraisal and
implementation had generally been satisfactory. At the time the decision was made to close the project, the
development objective of the project had been achieved. As a consequence, the overall Borrower
performance is rated satisfactorv.
8. Lessons Learned
(a) Employment linked training, where the employer is provided with financial resources commensurate
with training costs, together with some organizational facilitation, can achieve workforce
development objectives with significantly increased levels of effectiveness and efficiency when
compared to the traditional institutionally based supply driven models.
(b) Facilitating sustainable employment for the poor and female unemployed can effectively be achieved
through the adoption of mechanisms similar to those used in the TESP project. These mechanisms
include the dissemination of information amongst target constituencies, establishing eligibility criteria
for program participation and funding support, participatory employer/project trainee selection, and
the establishment of contractual obligations upon both the employer and employee beneficiaries.
(c) Projects that involve a multiplicity of beneficiaries such as employers, trainees, and employees, must
employ sufficient staff to ensure that all applications and programs are compliant with project
guidelines and aspirations. These procedures, along with other intemal control measures, are
relatively inexpensive when spread across large numbers of beneficiaries and help to ensure
transparency and provide adequate evidence that project funds are being used as intended.
- 14 -



(d) In all HRD projects, and particularly those exploring alternate delivery mechanisms, timely, regular,
and comprehensive tracer studies are an essential project output in order to ensure relevant targeting
of resources, address perception or prejudice based evaluation, and provide statistical measures of
progress made towards the achievement of development objectives.
(e) Pilot projects are essentially learning activities. As such they need to include forums where all parties
are regularly brought together to reinforce the objectives, evaluate implementation processes vis a vis
achievement of those objectives, and exchange recommendations that would enhance effectiveness.
This mechanism was absent in the TESP project, frequently resulting in commentary that did not
reflect the reality on the ground. The Bank Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) mechanism
introduced subsequent to TESP becoming operational, includes provision for activities such as that
described above.
(f) As can be observed from the ICR and the findings of the Impact Assessment Study, the project fully
met its objective of demonstrating the potential to leverage the unemployed poor into employment,
through the adoption of an employer-based demand-driven approach. The project has however lost its
potential for replication and extended benefit to critical constituencies, as a result of cancellation
without appropriate reference to other stakeholders. The lesson to be learned from 'his experience is
the importance of formulating mechanisms at the project design stage that will guarantee equitable
participation at the policy and decision making level for all stakeholders.
- 15 -



9. Partner Commnients
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
THE HASHEMGTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MONASTRY OF LABOUR
Training and Employment Support Project
World Bank Loan No. 3423-JO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
September 30, 2002
-16 -



Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...............                    19
Part 1.     PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives .20
B.    Components of the Project .20
C.    Project Oversight and Coordination ........................ 21
D.    Project Implementation .21
E.    Role of the Training Fund Executive Committee and
Local Committees .22
F.    Analysis of Business .22
G. Key Lessons Learned .23
H. Overall Performance .25
1. Bibliography .26
Part 11.          STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 Disbursement and Commitments Summary
by Category ............ ............................... 29
Table 2 Consolidated Statement of Expenditures ........ ........ 29
Table 3 Statement of Expenditures, Training Fund ............... 30
Table 4 Statement of Expenditures, Government Share ........... 30
Table 5 Trainees Breakdown by Governorate ......... ............ 31
Table 6 Trainees Breakdown by Sector .............. .............. 32
-17 -



XMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HASHUMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN No.4323-Jo)
Preface
This is the preliminary version of the Evaluation Report on Training and Employment
Support Project ( TESP ) for which the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, MOP requested the
World Bank financial assistance. A loan (No. 4323-Jo) in the amount of 5.0 million dollars was
approved by the World Bank's Executive Committee for three year's period starting February
1998 and expires on February 2002. The actual amount spent during that period, however, did
not exceed $ 2.0 million.
Loan Extension, the original closing date of the loan was February, 2002. Because the
Project demonstrated that it had performed satisfactorily and extending the loan would serve to
further realize its development objectives, the Bank and Government of Jordan have decided to
extend the loan two more years, thus extending the Project through February, 2004. During
February, 2002 extensive dialogue took place between the Banks mission, the Ministry of Labor
and the Ministry of Planning with respect to consistency between the objectives and
implementation modalities of TESP and the human capital development priorities. Based on that
dialogue, it was agreed that, in view of current priorities for the sector, to close TESP project. It
was further recommended that September 30, 2002 is appropriate date for that closure.
The conclusions and content of this report are based on project records and documents by
the PIU/ Ministry of Labor.
-18-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN No.4323-Jo)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The objectives of Training and Employment Support Project ( TESP ) is to pilot test the
demand for, and efficiency of an employed-based Training Fund. It will make better use of public
funds dedicated for skills development by demonstrating that training can be more cost-effective
and efficient when it is demand driven, training funds are competitively awarded between public
and private providers, and employment services are also offered by private offices whose
operations have been until recently illegal.
The project funds for training will be targeted to poor job-seekers. To achieve that, the
project was designed as three years pilot project that would: (i) finance necessary in-service
training and related activities for approximately 7,000 jobseekers to fill new vacancies across the
labor market, and (ii) undertake evaluations of those interventions.
Project objectives
The objective of TESP is to increase the amount and relevance of training available to the
unemployed, especially the poor. The project supports in-service training of short duration and
related support services.
It is intended that the TESP project will result in the following benefits:
I .Improving the employment impact of public training funds that have been previously
channeled towards long term supply driven pre-employment training;
2. Increasing the supply of skills through greater involvement of the private sector;
3. Reducing the overall cost of training through competition amongst public and private providers
of training;
4. Increasing the utilization of, and providing income to Jordanians unemployed workers.
-19 -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
TIRAaNG AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN No.4323-Jo)
PART II
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIEON ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Objectives
In simple words, Project Objectives are:
1. To test the demand for employer based training;
2. To measure the effectiveness and efficiency of employer based training;
3. To test the cost effectiveness and efficiency of demand driven training vs. supply driven training;
and,
4. to facilitate employment opportunities for the poor and unemployed sectors of society.
As noted in the design of this project, TESP is simple in design with a limited number of
objectives.
Consequently, it is important not to attribute, or attempt to measure, unintended
objectives of the project. Thus the posing of evaluation questions and selection of related
indicators to measure project outcomes, should, (i) conform to the above noted criteria and (ii) be
limited in number but allow for some patterns of association.
TESP is a pilot project intended to introduce an efficient and effective linkage between
public expenditures for short-term training, and the business community skill requirements. It is
one component of the Government of Jordan Social Productivity Program ( SPP ), which is a
comprehensive strategy to address the problems of poverty and unemployment through
productivity improvements. TESP created a fund, which issued monetary awards to enterprises,
which provided training and related services, which were necessary for the recruitment of the
unemployed to fill genuine vacancy.
B.    Components of the Project
1. Training: the training component provided funds for in-service training of short duration
(up to six months ) and related support services such as employment intermediation. Funds were
-20-



given to simple enterprises or purchased from public and private providers. The beneficiaries of
training were all unemployed and were offered employment in genuine vacancies.
2. Monitoring, Studies and Evaluation ( MSE ): this component funded surveys to
evaluate the usage and employment impact of the type of training support provided by the
project in comparison to existing training programs.
3. During the past three years of the past phase of the project's life, three studies were
conducted:
a) Trainers data base- this study was conducted to carry out a country wide field survey
on licensed short term (up to 6 months) training providers in Jordan, development of a
National Training Providers data base (NTDB), entering all field survey to this data base and
NTDB results available to potential users through the internet.
b) Technical Assistance for the Training Fund Audit- the purpose of this study was to
confirm the compliance of the Project funding operations with the project documents and to
assure that payments received by the beneficiaries have been used for eligible expenditures.
c) A Tracer Study and Impact Assessment of the training and Employment Support
Project- this study was conducted in order to measure the extent the objectives of the project
referred to above have been met.
C.    Project Oversight and Coordination
The Government of Jordan has established a National Steering Committee (NSC ) to
oversee the execution of the Social Productivity Program ( SPP ).
The NSC is an inter-ministerial committee chaired by the Minister of Planning and
composed of key ministers ( including the Minister of Labor) each responsible for the
implementation of specific SPP components.
D.    Project Implementation
The Ministry of Labor ( MOL ) is the executing agency of the project. The Minister of
Labor is a member of the NSC and is responsible before the NSC for the affairs of the TESP.
An independent Project Implementation Unit ( PIU ) was established within MOL to
supplement its capacity and to ensure effective and timely implementation of the project. The PIU
consisted of six members who were recruited competitively from the private sector. Project
Director, Financial Officer, Procurement Officer, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, and two
Project Assistants. To assist the PIU in Project implementation, a nine member Training Fund
Executive Committee ( TFEC ) was established with equal representation from the public and
private sector, which convened regularly to:
(i) evaluate and approve/ reject training proposals submitted by the PIU; and (ii ) discuss other
- 21 -



matters of relevance to the project.
To insure that all project benefits were realized by all potential beneficiaries and to
supplement the PIU's out-reach capacity to target groups five member Local Committee ( LCs
)were established in the Ministry of Labor employment Offices nation-wide, one per Governorate
except for Amman which had two ( one in Jabal Al-Hussein and one in Sahab ). The LCs
convened regularly and as needed to promote the project's objectives; assist in the identification of
target beneficiaries and potential employers; provided interested parties with necessary application
forms and relevant instructions, received training proposals from potential enterprises and
submitted them to the PIU after establishing eligibility and recommending approval/ rejection;
follow up the approval process and monitor the actual implementation of the Fund's activities in
enterprise in their respective Governorates; and provided the PIU with the necessary field
infornation as needed.
E.    Role of The Training Fund Executive Committee and Local Committees
"To assist the Minister of Labor and the PIIU in project implementation a nine-member
Training Fund Executive Committee ( TFEC ) was established with equal representation from the
public and private sectors which convened regularly to: i ) evaluate and approve/ reject training
proposals submitted by the PIU: and ii ) discuss other matters of relevance to the project."
Recognizing that policy issues fall under mandate of the National Steering Committee: that
these policy directions and guidelines are transmitted to the PIU through the Project Coordination
and Support Unit: and that, the PIU is charged with project implementation responsibilities, the
PIU requested clarification of the role of TFEC in "discussing other matters of relevance to the
project. No response ever was presented to the PIU in that regard.
As to the role of Local Committees, under the project design, Local Committees role was
of two fold. Firstly, to act as an out reach arm of the PIU to promote awareness of the TESP
program, and secondly, to establish eligibility of applications received. During early stages of the
project, the LCs confined their activities exclusively to eligibility of assessment. In efforts to
address the issue, PIU has initiated a series of workshops almost in all governorates. These
workshops have addressed the overall project objectives, committee responsibilities, processing of
applications, promotion, application evaluation criteria, recording of meetings, responsibilities of
labor inspectors when making trainee evaluation visits, and other issues surrounding project
monitoring and evaluation. This action comprises a positive response to increasing the internal
efficiency and effectiveness of project operations. However, the lack of monetary incentives, or at
least the availability of some funds to reimburse these members for their out-of-pocket expenses
which they incur while conducting their duties led to diminish their services to absolute minimum.
These members used their time and their private vehicles and PIU were not able to reimburse them
for their services.
F.    Analysis of Business
Over the past two and half years 755 companies have participated in TESP. The Local
- 22 -



Committees' and the Executive Committee have approved applications for the training of 8516
trainees. Of these 6143 have satisfactorily completed their training and retained their jobs ( 92%
of the target set by the World Bank of 6700 trainees).
The gender distribution showed a total of 5003 out of 8516 or 58% were female while
3513 or 42% were male. This distribution is consistent with the project objectives of reaching
unemployed women.
The distribution by sector showed that the predominant sector has been manufacturing (
69% of all trainees ), and the rest were trained in the service sector. In geographical distribution,
56% came from the north. This, of course, is due to the location of Al-Hassan Industrial city in
that region where 'most of the industrial sewing companies are located; 30% from the central
region, 8% from the south region and 6% from the east.
PIU has launched a Tracer Study and Impact Assessment of TESP on March 2002 and the
study was completed on July 2002. The study revealed that TESP has not only achieved most of
the objectives set for the project but it exceeded expectations set for it. For example, the study
showed that total number applications for the training were 8516 trainees while the target set by
the World Bank's mission was 6700, 6143 have satisfactorily completed their training. The cost
per trainee was less than half of what was projected for it and the rate of retention reached 84%
of total workers who were trained and were able to retain their jobs.
G.    Key Lessons Learned
Although the overall project performance was satisfactory, a number of lessons can be
learned by all parties concerned, PIU, the World Bank and Ministries of Planning and Labor in the
design of future similar operations. They can be drawn from key factors that were critical to the
success of the project, as well as those that used improvement.
There are eight lessons to be learned, these are:
1. The project benefited from its simple design, i.e. the vision that underpinned its design
and implementation ( as opposed to one geared towards social needs );
2. The grass-roots "bottom-up", approach ensured flexible design, TESP allowed
modifications during implementation to reflect institutional changes, as well as on going
evaluations of project impact;
3. Generally, performance and relations with the World Bank mission who supervised the
implementation of the project is highly appreciated. However, there has been no clear cut
division between advisory role of the Bank's experts and decision-making role of MOL
leaning full responsibility of a Borrower;
-23 -



4. The requirement to follow World Bank procedures for procurement proposal and
contract award on the one hand and the requirement to obtain similar approvals on many
decision levels in Jordan on the other hand, have seriously impeded the project
implementation process.
5. The question of standard procedures for the use of Loan proceeds and counterpart
funds has to be solved for the sake of future projects. In TESP the resources from the
Loan were spent according to World Bank procedures while counterparts funds from
Jordan's rules and regulations. The parallel applications of two difficult procedures created
some problems to the Borrower which was obliged to follow Jordan regulations.
6. In order to enable TESP to operate efficiently and coherently, a series of practical steps
to improve it's management are needed. Technical and budgetary monitoring was
strengthened, and assistance to be provided by the World Bank's mission, however, is still
needed to ensure the economic effectiveness of TESP actions.
7. Generally, performance and relations with World Bank representative who supervised
the implementation of the project is highly, appreciated. However, there has been no
clear-cut division between advisory role of the Bank's experts and decision-making role of
the MOP/ MOL bearing full responsibility of the Borrower.
8. The requirement to follow World Bank procedures for procurement and the need for
"no objection" on every step of each procurement proposal and contract award on the one
hand and the requirement to obtain similar approvals on many decision levels in Jordan on
the other hand, have impeded-the project implementation process.
-24 -



Conclusion
H.    Overall Performance
Since its inception in 1998, TESP. has substantially and at a low cost fulfilled its mandate
to enable the poor and low-income or unemployed individuals to participate in productive work in
order to contribute in the struggle against poverty and unemployment in Jordan.
TESP contribution to unemployment reduction has been substantial. It has created over
6143 jobs in the two and a half years it was functional. The cost of these jobs was JD 120.00 per
job from the training fund and JD 45.12 per job in administrative expenses. This is highly efficient
compared to JD 500.00 per job projected by the World Bank team in their study.
TESP however did not differentiate in offering its training opportunities between small
enterprises and large companies especially at the QIZ areas. Substantial large sums have been
made available to the companies at the QIZ and to the voluntary society, targeting the poorest, to
assist these organizations train and hire the unemployed. Over 20% of small employers at the
private sector were not able to cope with the complexity and requirements of the Project.
Training opportunities were given to clients who were selected based on their
unemployment or poverty status, while the overriding eligibility criteria should have been
unemployment or poverty and the viability of the business.
- 25 -



Bibliography:
1. Project appraisal document, training and employment support project world bank, April 21,
1998
2. Operation manual, training and employment support project, world bank
3- World bank supervision mission, aid memories, November, 1998 to April, 2002
4- Quarterly reports, training and employment support project, November, 1998 to April, 2002
-26 -



Ministry Observations
Project performance
Disregard of the results shown in the tracer study and impact assessment the ministry of labor
would like to present the following observations:
1 - Target Beneficiaries \ Geographical distribution
Statistics shows that:
56% of the trainees came from the north region.
30% of the trainees came from the central region.
8% of the trainees came from the south region.
6% of the trainees came from the east region.
Which means that the poorest regions (south and east) were the least benefited from the
project .
2- Project support
54.3% of the jobs were created in the textile industry in the industrial zones, all the companies
established in qualified industrial zones (QIZ) by agreement with the government are obligated to
employ Jordanians without being subsidized.
The project support was directed and delivered to the wrong companies.
3- Training in the small companies
3500 trainees have been trained in 462 small companies categorized as to employ (1 to 1O)
workers, say average (6) workers. This means that the number of trainees trained in small
companies exceeds the already employed workers (1.26%) of the already employed workers.
These figures means that the involved companies were not training to satisfy their needs but to
benefit from the project incentives, and they did not employ the trained people, in no case the
need for new workers can be more than the already employed workers.
4- Project achievement
Statistics shows that 92% of the total trainees have been trained in three years instead of five
years, and the coast was only 19% of the estimated cost.
This might also means weak design of the project, and overestimation of the project
components.
5- Employers capabilities
The survey indicates that the employers generally lack the skills to identifying the training
needs and to participate to the design of the training programs.
Based on that the employers judgment to the project evaluation may not be reliable.
6- Trainees evaluation
The tracer study and impact assessment do not show the evaluation of the trainees performance in
companies other than those was involved in the project. Evaluation of such employers can be
considered as a neutral evaluation of the trainees performance and the project in general.
-27 -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLITION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
LOAN NO. 4323 - JO
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
l. Disbursement & commitment summary, by category, as of 30/9/2002
2. Consolidated statement of expenditures as of 30/9/2002
3. Statement of expenditure, training fund as of 30/912002
4. Statement of expenditure, Governorate share as of 30/9/2002
S. Trainees breakdown by Governorate as of 30/9/2002
6. Tirainees breakdown by sector as of 30/9/2002
- 28 -



Table (1)
Ministry Of Labor
Training and Employment Support Project - World Bank loan 4323- JO
Since inception of the project till September 30,2002
Disbursement & Commitments Summary, B Category
Category Description         Loan         Disbursed to Committed Disbursed & Available  % Financed By
Allocations  Date       to date    committed  Balance    World Bank
Amount us$
Amount US$                  Amount US$
I    Training Fund         4,000,000    1,442,539     -       1,442,539  2,557,461        100%
2    Goods under part c     100,000      57,563       -          57,563     42,437 80% of local
expenditure
3    Consultants' services  400,000     307,815       -         307,815     92,185 100%
and training
4    Operating Expenses     100,000      51,472       -          51,47      48,528 95%
5    Unallocated            400,000        -          -                    400,000
Total                          5,000,000   1,859,389     0       1,859,389   3,140,611
Table (2)
Ministry Of Labor
Training and Employment Support Project
Consolidated Statement of Expenditures in US$ As of 30/0912002
Financed By                                             Expenditures
1998        1999        2000        2001       2002       Total
World Bank (LOAN)               -        236,362     624,062     622,539    376,426    1,859,389
Government Share                -         18,859     111,017     103,324    85,319      318,519
IUNDP                        79,365         -           -          -           -        79,365
Grand Total                  79,365      255,221     735,079     725,863    461,745    2,257,273
-29 -



Table (3
Ministry of Labor
Training and Employment Support project Loan No.4323-JO
Statement of Expenditures, Training Fund In US$ ( 01/01/99-3010912002)
Govemorate                                 1999       2000      2001 -      2002       Total
Amman                                    69,183.997  93,545.198 281,779.661 199,717.514 644,226.37
Irbid                                    78,391.003 247,895.480 160,748.588 34,887.006  521,922.08
Zarka                                    22,655.000  10,310.734  12,711.864  20,903.955  66,581.55
Balaga                                   2,300.000  14,399.718  1,129.944  5,720.339  23,550.00
Mafarg                                   1,262.006  3,177.966  1,694.915     -       6,134.89
Madaba                                   3,225.000  2,824.859     -          -       6,049.86
Karak                                    2,663.997  37,257.203  57,132.768  18,686.441  115,740.41
Ma'an                                        -       649.718   4,293.785  5,932.203  10,875.71
Tafileha                                     -      1,596.045  15,593.220            17,189.27
Aqaba                                        -      31,751.412     -       649.718   32,401.13
Jarash                                      -       282.486    211.864       -        494.35
Other ( Refunds)                             -          -          -      -2,626.610  -2,626.61
Total USD                               179,681.003 443,690.819 535,296.609 283,870.566 1,442,539.00
Table (4)
Ministry Of Labor
Training and Employment Support Project - Government Share
Statement of Expenditures in US$ - As of 30/09/2002
Expenditures Category
1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     Total
Training Fund                          L_            _   _         _        _         _
Goods                                    -                9,412     4,485       -      13,897
Consultant's services and training       -         -      16,541    6,367     7,720    30,628
Operating Expenses                       -      13,198    71,940    76,293    72,206   233,637
Committees                               -       5,661    13,124    16,179    5,393    40,357
Grand Total                            0.00     18,859    111,017  103,324   85,319    318,519
- 30 -



table 5
Training & Employment Support Project
Trainees Breakdown By Governorate
From: 01/06/1998 - 30/09/2002
Governorate    Total Firm   total committee a roved  total approved trainees  total dropped trainees
Count     Male   Female   Total  Male  Female   Total  Male   Female  Total
Amman               332      1495     712    2207   1187    575    1762   147      89     236
Aqaba                42       25      73      98     24     70      94     1       2       3
Balga'               53       58      57      115    52     62      114    1       0       1
Irbid               135      1315    3333    4648   1031   2129    3160    132    400     532
Jarash               3         2       3       5     2       3       5
Karak                66       114     398     512   103     295     398    9       42      51
Ma'an               11        27      23      50     22      18     40     2       2       4
Madaba               17       100     130     230    27     147     174                  _
Mafrag               3        37       0      37     35      0      35
Tafeela              24       31      31      62     24      26     50     8       3       11
Zarga'               69       309     243     552   181     159     340    27      40      67
Total               755      3513    5003    8516   2688    3484   6172   327     578     905
Total Committee Approved Trainees: The number of trainees approved by the committees
rotal Approved Trainees: The number of trainees added to the database
rotal Actually Trained: The number of trainees finished the training course
Dropped Out: The number of withdrawer trainees (failed, discontinued, etc .....
- 31 -



Table (6)
Training & Employment Support Project
Approved Trainee Distr. By Sector Report
01/06/1998 - 30/09/2002
Sector      Sub Sector                                          Approved Trainees Count  Total
Male      Female
Rndustry    (15 2 0) Manufacture of dairy products                  2          0           2
(15 3 1) Manufacture of grain mill products             9           1         10
(15 4 1) Manufacture of bakery products                166          1         167
(17 11) Preparation & spinning of textile fiberes;w     94         43         137
(172 1) Manufacture of made-up textile articles         112        114        226
(1729) Manufacture of other textiles i.e.               0          5           5
(18 10) Manufacture of wearing apparel,                378        2364       2742
(1912) Manufacture of luggage, handbags & the like, saddlery  252  178        430
(20 10) Sawmilling and planning of wood                 9           7         16
(2022) Manufacture of builders' carpentry &joiner       15         0          15
(2411) Manufacture of basic chemicals                   2          0           2
(2412) Manufacture of fertilizers and nitrogen comp     17          0         17
(2413) Manufacture of plastics in primary forms         3           1          4
(2422) Manufacture of paints, vamishes & similar coatings,  41     11         52
_(2520) Manufacture of plastic products                  3          1          4
(2710) Manufacture of basic iron and steel               I          0          1
(2811) Manufacture of structural metal products         3           0          3
(28,12) Manufacture of tanks, reservoirs & containers of metal  I   0          1
(2892) Treatment and coating of metals, general mechanical  9       0          9
,(2893) Manufacture of cutlery, hand tools and general hardware  24  3         27
(2899) Manufacture of other fabricated metal products   11          0          11
(2925) Manufacture of machinery for food, beverage       29         4          33
(3120) Manufacture of electricity distribution & control  5         0          5
(3430) Manufacture of parts & accessories for motor vehicles  20    0          20
(3691) Manufacture ofjewellery and related articles     150         73         223
Sub-Tota   1356        2806       4162
Insurance   (6600) Insurance                                         3          5          8
Sub-Tota     3          5          8
Services    (5 5 10) Hotels                                         123        23         146
(5520) Restaurants                                       27         4          31
(7220) Software consultancy and supply                  167        104        271
(7411) Legal activities                                  1          0           1
(7412) Accounting, book-keeping & auditing activities    3          0          3
(7414) Business & management consultancy activities      1          0           1
(742 1) Architectural and engineering activities and related  49     1         50
(7492) Investigation and security activities            443         3          446
(7493) Building-cleaning activities(housekeeping)        34         4          38
-32-



Sector      Sub Sector                                           Approved Trainees Count  Total
Male      Female
Continue   (7499) Other business activities Steward                 14          3          17
Services   (802 1) General secondary education                      24         151        175
(8511) Hospital activities                               33         41          74
(8512) Medical & Dental practice activities               1          0          1
(8519) Other hunan health activities                     19         31          50
(9211) Motion picture and video production and distribution  3       0          3
(9241) Sporting activities                                I          1          2
(93 0 1) Washing and (dry) cleaning of textile           37          4          41
(9302) Hairdressing and other beauty treatment           268        282        550
(9309) Other service activities n.e.c                     0          7          7
Sub-Total   1248       659        1907
STRAGE      (6302) Storage and Warehousing                           69          9         78
COMMUNICA
ION
Sub-Tota     69         9          78
holesale & (5510) whole sale on a fee or contract basis            12          5         17
retail trade
Sub-Total    12         5          17
Grand total  2688       3484        6172
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 33 -



10. Additionall lEnfoirumation
- 34 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
?lnIwedlcatorletlx       ,           . $ * , ~. *} , Projected in lat PSR  *,  -  s
1. Strong demand for the program among  Not available.                     Over the projectfs lifetime (July 7, 1998 to
employers, together with high retention of                                 September 30, 2002) 810 employers
trained workers by the employers.                                          participated in the program of which 54
percent were In the clothing and textle
industry. 75 percent of participating
employers satisfied with TESP
Demand for trainees was relatively stable
over the life of the project as Indicated by the
following data'
1998 -  246 trainees
1999 - 1,843 trainees
2000 - 1,714 trainees
2001 - 1,972 trainees
2002 -   18 trainees
Employment and retention rates of TESP
trainees before and after TESP are as
follows:
Unemployed before TESP:   99.5%
Employed after TESP       84 7 %
Employed females after TESP. 866 %
Employed males after TESP.  78.9 %
2 Post-training employment outcomes of  Not available                      Data not available But, there are no similar
trainees are superior to those of comparators.                             programs for unskilled workers in Jordan.
Training programs provided by Vocational
Training Corporation are aimed at craftsman,
skilled and semi-skilled workers The new
GOJ Natbonal Training Program aims at a
retention rate of 30 percent.
Output Indicators:
. ndlcatbrlilatrix                 Projected In last PSR .              Actuallgst Estmat
Strong demand by employers for available  Not available.                   Trainers database collated and presented to
pilot funds                                                                Vocational Training Corporation at the
closure of the project
Effective data collecUon and analysis of the  Not available.               Trainers database collated and presented to
supply response from training providers, and                               Vocational Training Corporation at the
post-training effects on beneficiaries.                                    closure of the prolect
Comprehensive Tracer Study prepared prior
to closure but information not available unbl
after the decision to prematurely dose the
project after project extension approved.
End of project
-35 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E
X     ^  ..  Component    U-       ' {'
Training Fund                                      5.00           1.44          28.8
Monitoring, Studies and Evaluation                 0.30           0.34         113.3
Project Implementation Unit                        0.70           0.48          68.6
Total Baseline Cost                                6.00           2.26
Total Project Costs             6.00          2.26
Total Financing Required             6.00          2.26
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category       B       ProcurmenCB   Met2od  .     N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB     . Other
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.20         0.00        0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)      (0.00)       (0.20)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.70         0.40         1.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)      (0.00)       (0.30)
4. Miscellaneous (Training  0.00          0.00        4.70         0.00         4.70
Fund)
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.50)       (0.00)      (4.50)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         5.60         0.40        6.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)      (5.00)
- 36 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement. Mst6od.                       tlCs
,.- Expenditure Caeory         ICB           NCB                , '      ..F. 1-   Total Cos
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00          0.07          0.00         0.07
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.06)       (0.00)        (0.06)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.75          0.00         0.75
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.36)       (0.00)        (0.36)
4. Miscellaneous (Training     0.00          0.00          1.44          0.00         1.44
Fund)
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.44)        (0.00)       (1.44)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       0.00           0.00         2.26          0.00         2.26
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.86)        (0.00)       (1.86)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in USS million equiv lent)
.X.'-  .     .:.-,Percentage of Appraisal
Componejit            Appraisal Esfimate .Actal/Latest Estimate
Bank    'Govt       CoF.,    BanI(    7Gov      coo.    Ban    Govt., CoF.
Training Fund           4.50      0.50      0.00     1.44      0.00      0.00    32.0   0.0    0.0
Monitoring, Studies and  0.15     0.15      0.00     0.31      0.03      0.00   206.7   20.0   0.0
Evaluation
Project Implementation  0.35      0.05      0.30     0.11      0.29      0.08    31.4  580.0   26.7
Unit
Total Project Cost      5.00      0.70      0.30     1.86      0.32      0.08    37.2   45.7   26.7
- 37 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and B3encefits
A financial and economic analysis was not prepared for the ICR.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/20/1997                  4   Task Team Leader, Voc. &
Technical Specialist, Economist,
Program Assistant.
07/16/1997                  4   Task Team Leader, Voc. &
Technical Specialist, Economist,
Program Assistant.
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/22/1997                  4   Task Team Leader,
Vocational & Technical
Specialist, Economist,
Program Assistant.
03/24/1998                 11   Country Director, Sector
Director, Sector Manager, Task
Team Leader, Regional
Procurement Adviser,
Disbursement Officer, Peer
Reviewers, Portfolio Manager,
Program Assistants.
Supervision
06/29/1998                  4   Task Team Leader, Sr.             S             S
Economist, Financial
Management Specialist
(Consultant), Procurement
Specialist (Consultant).
12/02/1998                  4   Social Protection Sector Leader,  S             S
Operations Analyst, Financial
Management Specialist
(Consultant), Procurement
Specialist (Consultant).
03/31/1999                  2   Sr. Economist, Procurement         S            S
Specialist (Consultant).
11/25/1999                  2   Social Protection Manager, Sr.    S             S
Economist.
08/03/2000                  4   Task Team Leader, VTE              S            S
Specialist (Consultant), Financial
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist.
04/12/2001                  4   Sr. Information Officer (Mission   S            S
Leader), VTE Specialist
(Consultant), Financial
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist.
09/27/2001                  4   Task Team Leader, VTE              S            U
- 39 -



Specialist (Consultant), Financial
Management Specialist, Program
Assistant.
04/11/2002                   4   Task Team Leader, VTE              U             S
Specialist (Consultant), Financial
Management Specialist, Program
Assistant.
ICR
10/04/2002                  5    Task Team Leader,                  S             S
Development Specialist
(Consultant), VTE
Specialist (Consultant),
Procurement Officer
(Consultant), Program
Assistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                n/a                         46
Appraisal/Negotiation                     n/a                         46
Supervision                               n/a                         168
ICR                                       n/a                         40
Total                                     n/a                        300
-40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
0 Physical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                             OH   OSUOM      ON    * NA
I Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Environmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Gender                          OH *SUOM ON ONA
LO Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Ol Private sector development           0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
El Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   * N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
-41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=UnsatisfactoTy, HU=Higly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                           OHS iS       OU    OHU
rO1 Supervision                                     OHS OS        OU    OIHU
n1 Overall                                          OHS O S       OU   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Ol Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
Ol Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS       O  U  O HU
E Overall                                            OHS(S        Ou    O HU
-42-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Bank Staff Assessments
- Identification, preparation, appraisal documents
- Supervision packages
- Loan Agreement
- PAD
B. Others
- PIU Quarterly Progress Reports
- Operational Manual, March 1998
- Auditor's Reports
- Vocational Training Corporation, Annual Report 2001
- Tracer Study and Impact Assessment Report, July 2002
-43 -



- 44 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29234
37;                   38'                  39,
4"~~~~~:
-- |-   )   /  g   -----------
cj' i    .-       -                                      ii             /                 ;               33
IB-.. '/ 
Lake
Tiberios
--  -/            y.        -                                        - Doe                   t
T. D-.-a ,-                      ..                    =            =0*
, y   E        c       >>=                        ~~~~~~M AFRA K           N
/-,-''     Pmotr    -.  -~ 
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
.-o j |D~~~ead chs_,,
--  'SeanNo ,                                              JORAMMAN                          300
~~~~~~~ D                                               SELECTE CIIE AN TON
-~       AlModoo,ooooh                                            ROADS} I   \
T.AIJ..fRALRAD
-31                                                                          PE 3RE
~1            Mop Desin Unit of he World Bnk            --------GOVERN-RAT-BOUNDARIE
k~~~~~o TheS World lan Grup an                     - /  ,  -C INERAIOA IOUDAIE
/         Sh~~~~~~erioryc, oran  enosemn  or 
-------------99..S  ;1 1wEBR,
30,_                  _                                               JO4R-__,N
!  /jJ  5; /           /                          6@    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPiTAL
Adp.d% ,,   ,,
/X Z  60 <'  t   /    ,                             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
) ,j \ \ /, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPRESSWAYS
''S1 --_  --   Al \ud-.     I-,'b                                        ROADS
--si I                X~~~~~~r AIB',                                   RAILROADS
S 3 25 5~2S             0        75 MILES                                 PERENNIAL RIVERS AND STREAMS   29e
w 0 7.~~5 SO          75 lOO       1 25 KILOMETERS              ---:---    INTERMITTENT STREAMS AND WADIS
t' rl. rnop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank  .................... ----GOVERNORATE BOUNDARiES
1k,t. boundaries, colors, denominations and onyother information shown
ois-. : map do noti mply, on the part of The Wor/di Bonkr Group, any      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
J) , ivent on the legol status of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptonce of such boundaries
35                    36                   37                    38                    39
DECEMBER I1997









Repog No.:        25576
Type:      R



