Report No. PID5594
Project Name                     Jordan-Training and Employment Support Project (@
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Social Sector Adjustment
Project ID                       JOPA52297
Borrower                         The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor
Amman, Jordan
Tel:   (962.6). 696.722
Fax:   (962.6).667.193
Date of Initial PID              August 6, 1997
Date this PID is Prepared        November 11, 1997
Projected Appraisal              October 17, 1997
Projected Board Date             May 19, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Jordan has a small economic base and a fast growing population.
Aggregate growth has remained robust in the last five years, but
employment has grown on average by only 30,000 a year since 1990
(excluding 1992). This figure is very much in line with the labor
force growth and is not expected to contribute to a significant
decline in the number of those who are currently unemployed
(estimated to be more than 130,000). The overall Government strategy
to combat poverty in Jordan has been to design and implement growth-
oriented economic reforms and to place a high priority on addressing
the immediate problems of poverty and unemployment. The reform
programs are expected to increase investment, contain the size of
the public sector and boost the activities of the private sector.
The Social Productivity Program (SPP), initiated in 1996, subsumes
the economic reforms, the direct actions on poverty and
unemployment, and sector-specific actions, all intended to increase
the productivity of Jordanian society. The SPP's four-pronged
approach would address: (a) social assistance; (b) physical
infrastructure; (c) micro-finance to support self-employment; and
(d) training for wage employment generation.
2.      The Training and Employment Support Project (TESP) is part of
the SPP and would finance short-term training and related employment
services. The TESP, like other components of the SPP, is envisioned
as the first phase of a long-term program of financing mechanisms
for programs that would reduce poverty in a sustainable way. Given
the commendable education attainment of Jordanians, training offered
by TESP could play a significant complementary role to education,
and provide job seekers with the necessary skills that are required
for the transition from an education system to the workplace.
Objectives



3.      The objective of the project is to enhance social productivity
by increasing the amount and relevance of training especially to
poorer Jordanians. The project will be a pilot project to
demonstrate that training can be more cost-effective and efficient
when training activities are demand-driven, and training funds
competitively awarded between public and private providers (this is
the "productivity" part of the project). The project funds for
training will be targeted to poor job-seekers (this is the
"social" part of the project).
Description
4.      The project would be a three-year pilot that would: (a) finance
necessary training for job-seekers to fill new employment vacancies;
and (b) conduct evaluations of these interventions. There will be
two components:
(a) A Training Fund Component (TFC) which will support
training and related support services (such as occupational needs
analysis and employment intermediation). The training would be:
(i) identified by employers; (ii) in-service though not necessarily
on-the-job (that is, there will be an employment contract); (iii)
provided by the employers themselves or by public and private
training organizations; and (iv) undertaken to new recruits
(incremental employment) drawn from the unemployed; and
(b) Monitoring, Studies and Evaluations (MSE) would enable an
evaluation of the above two interventions. The studies would
evaluate the productivity and employment impact of the project's
interventions in relation to existing training programs.
Financing
5.      The total project cost is estimated at US$6.0 million, of which
IBRD is expected to contribute US$5.0 million, the UNDP will fund an
estimated US$0.3 million, and the Government US$0.7 million.
Implementation
6.      The Training and Employment Support Project (TESP) will be
overseen and closely monitored by the SPP's Program Coordination and
Support Unit (PCSU) chaired by the Minister of Planning, and will be
implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the Ministry
of Labor. The pilot project implementation period is for three
years (1998-2000).
Sustainability
7. The Government is committed to the project's objectives and
plans to continue operations after the pilot phase is concluded, to
the extent that evaluation results indicate that the project's
interventions are more efficient and cost-effective in relation to
existing training and social assistance programs. There are no
capital costs required for putting in practice the mechanism for
TESP. Incremental recurrent costs under the training component are
-2 -



small and can be absorbed from the efficiency gains the project
would create.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.      The design of the proposed project incorporates the following
lessons: (a) while basic skills can be usefully provided by the
public sector, many employer-specific skills are more efficiently
provided in the workplace; (b) increasing competition in the supply
of skills increases the amount of training, reducing its costs and
improving the relevance to employers' needs; (c) training can
benefit from a balanced public-private partnership; and (d) training
benefits from the participation of the private sector in the design
of programs.
Poverty Category
8. The project is part of the program of targeted interventions (PTI).
Environmental Aspects
9. The proposed project has been rated "C" because it will have
minimal environmental impact.
Program Objective Categories
10. The project will contribute to poverty reduction and capacity
building.
Project Benefits
12.     Economic Benefits:   The project would: (a) improve employment
impact of public funds for training; (b) increase the supply of
skills (through greater involvement of the private sector) and
reduce costs of training through competition among public and
private providers; (c) increase worker productivity and company
performance; (d) provide new income to Jordanian workers, especially
the poor; and (e) improve and expand the information base,
strengthen policy making, and improve public/private collaboration
in the design and management of training.
13.     Social Benefits: By design, the project would: (a) improve
equity and access to training and employment for the poor and
unemployed; and (b) enable both public and private sectors to
develop and implement demand-driven training programs and increase
their role in poverty reduction. Other benefits: The project would
provide an additional mechanism for public funding of training
(compared to block grants only to publicly-provided training). This
will increase the instruments at the discretion of Government for
increasing social productivity. It can also lead to efficiency
gains, if the pilot proves successful, to the extent that future
public funding makes greater use of competitively based awards
compared to grants that at times perpetuate established but outdated
structures.
-3-



14.     Target Population: The project is aimed at the unemployed,
particularly those from poorer families. The training applications
will be screened by the Local Committees who will follow a pre-
defined criteria for selection, of which one is that the applicant
is unemployed and/or a recipient of the National Aid Fund (NAF)
program. The Local Committees will be composed of representatives
from the Ministries of Labor, Social Development and Education, and
Employer and Labor Organizations.
Project Risks
14.     The potential risks are: (a) proposed targeting mechanism may
be too restrictive (selected job-seekers may not be the poorest);
(b) use of training funds by employers may be low (despite the
incentives, there may not be enough job vacancies at the level of
support that the project will provide); and (c) response by private
sector providers of training and employment services may be slow and
erratic.
15.     The risks will be minimized by: (a) using a pilot project to
test the proposed instruments and performing rigorous evaluations
and impact analyses to assess their efficiency and cost-
effectiveness; (b) restricting eligibility to Jordanians, some of
whom would undertake jobs currently performed by foreign workers:
(c) enforcing of monitoring procedures, reviewing and re-evaluating
eligibility criteria, worker selection and enterprise awards; and
(d) implementing recent changes in legislation that would enable
greater participation of the private sector in training and
employment services.
Contact Points:    Zafiris Tzannatos, Task Manager      Bassam Ramadan
The World Bank                       Tel: 202-473-4304
Washington, D.C.   20433             Fax: 202-477-8642
Telephone: 202-473-3280
Fax: 202-522-3252
Note:   The contents of this document are subject to change and
the components described may not necessarily be included in the
final project.
Processed by The World Bank InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998.
- 4 -



