Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19380
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2151-YEM)
June 21, 1999
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



OFFICIAL CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yemeni Rials (YER)
1990  US$1.00 = YER  11.51
1991  US$1.00 = YER  12.00
1992  US$1.00 =YER  12.00
1993  US$1.00 = YER  12.00
1994  US$1.00 = YER  12.00
1995  US$1.00 = YER  40.42
1996  US$1.00 = YER  99.79
1997  US$1.00 = YER 125.77
1998  US$1.00 = YER 129.59
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
HMI    Health Manpower Institute
MCH    Maternal and Child Health
MOH    Ministry of Health
PDYR   People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PMO    Project Management Office
YAR    Yemen Arab Republic
FISCAL YEAR
YEMEN:   January 1 - December 31
IDA:       July 1 - June 30
Vice President:                  Kemal Dervi~
Country Director:               Inder Sud
Sector Director:                 Jacques Baudouy
Sector Leader:                   George Schieber
Task Team Members:               Gail Richardson, Nicole Klingen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION RFPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2151-YEM)
Preface                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
Evaluation Summary
PART 1:  Project Implementation Assessment ......................................................I
A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .I
Introduction                              .I
The project as initially designed                   .I
Modifications to the project design .3
B. PROJECT EVALUATION                                .5
Objectives                                ..5
(a) Improving the effectiveness of existing hea!th _rsi cs .5
(b) Extension of health services to underserved areas.                      6
Implementation of Project Components                   ..7
(a) Regional administration and support services development.               7
(b) Health and human resources development               .7
(c) Health care management development                 .8
Major factors which affected the project               ..8
(a) Lag between project appraisal and effectiveness.                        8
(b) Unification                            .9
(c) War ...9.,. . . . , .                   .. ...................9
(d) Inflation                            .9
(e) Bureaucracy .10
(f) Low morale among the civil servants .10
Summary of key lessons learned and applied to future operations.   .          10
Ongoing and future operations         ..11
Borrower and Bank performance           ..12
C. SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE STRATEGIC ACTIONS .13
PART II:  Borrower's Evaluation
PART III: Statistical Data
Table I   Summary of Assessments
Table 2    Related Bank Credits
Table 3    Project Timetable
Table 4    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B  Summary of Training Activities
Table 6    Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A  Project Investment Costs
Table 8B  Project Financing
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions
Annex A: Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2151-YEM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Sector Development Project in the
Republic of Yemen, for which Credit 2151-YEM in the amount of SDR 11.7 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) was approved on May 31, 1990 and made effective on July 31, 1991. The credit was closed
on December 31, 1998, two years beyond the date originally envisaged, December 31, 1996. The
accounts were closed on April 30, 1999 and 98% of the funds were disbursed.
The conclusions and content of this report are based on project records held by both IDA and the
Ministry of Public Health. In addition, a comprehensive project assessment was conducted by a team of
Yemeni consultants at the request of the Ministry of Public Health (the findings of tlis assessment have
been incorporated into the Borrower's Assessment). The findings and lessons learned were discussed
with the Govemment during the visit of IDA's final supervision/completion mission (May 8-13, 1999)
(the mission's Memorandum of Understanding is attached (Annex A)).
The ICR was prepared by Mmes. Gail Richardson and Nicole Klingen (MNSHD), with assistance
provided by Ms. Mira Hong (MNSHD) of the MENA Region. Mr. Salim Habayeb (SASHP) and Mr.
Frederick Golladay (ECSHD) served as peer reviewers. Comments on the draft report were also
provided by Mmes./Messrs. Tufan Kolan (MNCMS), lHadi Abushakra (LEGMN), Jacques Baudouy, Lisa
Meyer, George Schieber, and Eileen Sullivan (MNSHD).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2151-YEM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The original objectives of the Health Sector Development Project were to (a) increase the quality,
effectiveness, and level of services of the existing health care system; and (b) facilitate the
extension of health services to underserved communities. These objectives were to be achieved
through the implementation of three components: (i) strengthenlinig, at the regional level,
administrative capabilities, medical equipment maintenance, and supplies maniagemiienit; (ii)
human resources development; and (iii) developing health care managemiienit.
The main findings of this Implementation Completion Report are as follows:
* The delivery of services in areas targeted uinder the project will likely be improved.
However, given that the interventions were limited in scope and coverage, it is expected that
the project will have limited impact on the country as a whole. The project objectives, which
referred to sector-wide impact, were not going to be accomplished through the set of project
interventions. Indeed, based on the set of project activities, it is clear in hindsight that the
project objectives should have been more narrowly defined. The objectives should have also
included quantifiable indicators in order to more accurately gauge the project's impact.
*The main lessons to be drawn from this project are: (i) the need for project objectives to be
specific and clearly defined, and for the componenits to be not only necessary but also
sufficient to achieve these objectives; (ii) the imipact of inputs which are focussed at the
regional level will be greater if the national programs are in place to provide support to these
peripheral units; (iii) although this project succeeded in increasing the availability of training
for women, that these recent graduates are not able to find employment with the public sector
suggests the need to ensure that project inputs are linked with macroeconomic realities; and
(iv) having the right staff in charge of project management and ensuring that the PIU is
integrated with the MOPH operations are key for effective implementation. In addition, the
day to day bureaucratic procedures in Yemen hinder implementation; and (v) effective
monitoring strategies need to be defined during the preparation of a project and systems put
in place for evaluation prior to project implenmenitation.
*  The major factors which affected project implenmentation include: (i) the lag between project
design and implementation; (ii) unification; (iii) the Gulf and Civil Wars; (iv) inflation; (v)
bureaucracy; and (vi) low morale among the civil servants.
*  The sustainability of the project is uncertain. The key issues with respect to sustainability
are: (i) availability of proper staff skills and adequate level of budget for maintenance of
equipment and infrastructure; (ii) managerial and administrative mechanisms to make
effective use of the regional support services (e.g., the maintenance workshops and
pharmaceutical stores); and (iii) provision of sufficient funds for operating expenses.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2151-YEM)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Introduction
1.    The Health Sector Development Project was developed as a contilnuationi of IDA's
involvement in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) within the framework of the Ministry of
Public Health's five-year health investment plan (1987-1991) to SUppOrt basic healthl care
and preventive services.I The Government's strategy focused on the development of a
cost-effective primary health care program  targeting primarily the uLnderserved rural
population. Effective nationwide expansion of this program faced four main constraints:
(a) weakness of administrative infrastructure; (b) limited operational capabilities; (c)
limited support services; and (d) shortage of trained health personnel (especially nurses
and midwives). To address these constraints, the Govenament decided to implement the
project described below.
The Project as Initially Designed
2.     Objectives. The objectives of the Health Sector Development Project were to: (a)
increase the quality, effectiveness, and level of services of the existing health care system,
and (b) facilitate the extension of healtlh services to underserved communities. The
strategy to achieve these objectives was to strengthen the administrative, human
resources, and support services base, particularly at the regional level.
3.    Comipontelits. The project originally consisted of three components:
(a) The development of rcgional administrative capabilities, medical equipment
maintenance, and supplies management through: (i) training governorate
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) staff in management and administration2;
(ii) new construction/extension of existing equipment maintenance workshops
and training of staff in bio-medical maintenance; (iii) construction of
I   In May 1990, YAR joined the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDYR) to become the
Republic of Yemen. Implemncetation of the project was limited to those areas of the former YAR.
The First Health Project in the YAR (Credit of US$10.5 million, completed June 1989) focused on
strengthening key central admniistrative and planning units of MOH as well as supporting the Health
Manpower Institute.
2   Areas of training included: general and personnel administration, accounting and budgeting, statistics,
information management, computer training, medical supplies management, and English language
training.



2
pharmaceutical storage facilities; and (iv) provision of equipment, spare parts,
furniture, and office materials.
(b) Human resources development through: (i) the construction/rehabilitation of
regional nursing and midwifery institutes as branches of the central Health
Manpower Institute (HMI); (ii) expansion of the central HMI in Sana'a; (iii)
provision of training materials, equipment, and student buses; and (iv)
assistance in upgrading curricula for nursing and medical techllicianis.
(c) Developing health care managenment by: (i) providing techllical assistance to
upgrade the hospital management traininig provided at a principal teachilln
hospital3; (ii) implementing  this upgraded  traininig  programii; and  (iii)
establishing a maternal and child health (MCH) emergenicy uniit and central
blood bank to support ongoing parallel efforts for improvinig the maniagemiienit
of clinical services and referrals.
4.     Iniputs. The project provided for:
(a) Construction and equipping of: (i) 9 equipmiient maintenance workshops; (ii) 9
pharmaceutical storage facilities; (iii) 3 regional HMIs; and (iv) a MCH
emergency unit and central blood bank.
(b) Extension, rehabilitation and equipping of: (i) 2 existing medical equipment
workshops; and (ii) 2 existing HMIs.
(c) Training of: (i) 600 MOH staff in administration and management; and (ii) 60
hospital managers in hospital management.
(d) Technical assistance for (i) upgrading the HMI curricula for nursing and
medical technicians; (ii) developing a hospital management program to be
made available at a principal training hospital; and (iii) developing a national
action plan for managenielat development.
(e) Provision of: training and office materials, spare parts, and school buses.
(f Support for proiect management.
5.    I,tpleo,enetatioi, Arranigemienits. Provision was made for: (a) the establishment
and appropriate staffing of a Project Management Office (PMO) with responsibility for
implementing  and  regular monitoring  of the project; (b) delegation  of training
responsibilities to the Directorates of Finance and Administration, Pharmacy and Medical
Supplies, Health Administration and Medical Services, and the Health Manpower
3   The technical assistance/training was to focus on: general and financial management, strategic
planning, information and supplies management, maintenance administration, medical records, and
nursing administration.



3
Institute; and (c) delegation of regional project implementation responsibilities to
Governorate Health Directors.
6.    Costs and Finanicing.  The project financing plan included an IDA credit of
US$15.0 million and a Government contribution of US$4.1 million.4  The project was
completed within seven years and five months.
7.    Credit Agreement. The legal covenants governing the credit are summarized in
Table 10. The credit became effective 14 months after Board Presentation. The delay in
effectiveness was due to the delay in project ratification by the new Parliament of the
Republic of Yemen which was created after unification.
Modifications to the Project Design
8.    Objectives. In 1995 the objectives of the project were slightly modified to: (a)
increase the effectiveness of existing health services; and (b) develop regional support
services to facilitate the extension of health services to underserved areas. The reference
to "improving the quality of existing services" was dropped because there were no
specific measures to improve quality and the reference to increasing the "level" of
services was removed because it was not clear. The second objective (b) was modified to
clarify that the project was not extending health services per se (e.g., constructing new
hiealth uniits), but instead was extending the services that support the delivery of health
care (e.g., medical supplies, equipment maintenance).
9.    Compontenits.  The following adjustments was introduced during the project
implementation period:
(a) Civil Works. The scope of the civil works inputs were reduced because of
rapid inflation. Inflation during the life of the project was extremely high and
the official rate did not depreciate enough to compensate. After contracts for
the first phase of construction were signed, there was concern that there would
not be sufficient funds available for the remaining civil works activities. This
issue was compounded by the lack of a price escalation clause in the signed
civil works contracts, with the result that contractors stopped working. By the
time this issue was resolved (November 1995), there was insufficient time
remaining within the original project period to launch the remaining civil
works projects. Subsequently, the following adjustments were made: (i) the
number of maintenance workshops to be constructed was reduced from 9 to 3
and the extension of 2 additional workshops were dropped; and (ii) the
number of medical storage facilities to be constructed was reduced from 9 to
3. When the financial situation became more stable towards the end of the
4   Project costs, including taxes and customs duties, were estimated at YER 229.7 millior (or US$19.1
million) with a foreign currency component of YER 133.2 rnillion (or US$1 1.1 million).



4
project, some funds which were initially allocated for civil works were used to
finance priority medical equipment and ambulances (US$1.5 million).
(b) Equipment, Materials, and Vehicles.  Adjustments were made to the
procurement of equipment and furniture to accommodate the changes in the
civil works program (see above). In addition, in 1995 Credit resources were
used to finance 20 malaria vehicles and supplies in response to a malaria
epidemic and basic medical equipment and ambulances were procured through
UNICEF for distribution to health facilities based on specified need.
(c) Training. The subjects and number of trainees were modified (see Table 5B)
to reflect priorities during implementation, and fellowships in hospital
management (2 man-months), specialized medical training (1.5 man-months),
procurement (1.5 man-nmonths), project management (I man-month), and
financial planning (0.5 man-nmonths) provided.
(d) Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance to strengthen hospital
managemenit at Al Thawra Hospital was never completed initially because of
lack of interest once the construction of the MCH emergency unit and the
blood bank were moved to Al-Sabeen Hospital (it is the principal MCH
Hospital in Sana'a) and subsequently because the management at Al Thawra
Hospital was found to be poor.
10.   Inputs and Costs. The project was executed within the budget allocated but
completed two years later than originally envisaged. Of the US$15.0 million credit,
US$392,684 remained undisbursed. Table 8 provides a summary of planned versus
actual expenditures.
11.  Implementtationt Arrantgemtents. No changes in implementation arrangements
were made. However, in 1997 a cross-sectoral decision was made to select PMO staff on
a competitive basis and to pay them salaries competitive with the private sector. While
the longer term objective was to ensure that the PMO was staffed with qualified
personnel, the immediate effect was substantial staff turnover which slowed
implementation because the new staff had to become familiar with the project operations
and IDA project management procedures.
12.   Credit Agreement.  In 1997, Category I (Works) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement was amended. The percentage to be
financed by IDA was increased from 70 to 95%. In addition, the credit closing date was
deferred first from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997 and later to December 31,
1998.



5
B.  PROJECT EVALUATION
Objectives
13.    Overall. The delivery of services in areas targeted under the project will likely be
improved. However, given that the interventions were limited in scope and coverage, it is
expected that the project will have limited impact on the country as a whole.5 The project
objectives, which referred to sector-wide impact, were not going to be acconmplished
through the set of project interventions. Indeed, based on the set of project activities, it is
clear in hindsight that the project objectives should have been more narrowly defined.
The objectives should have also included quantifiable indicators in order to more
accurately gauge the project's impact. A more detailed assessment of the achievement of
each of the two project objectives follows.
(a) Improving the effectiveness of existing health services
14.    The first project objective was to improve the effectiveness of existing health
services. To achieve this objective, the project focussed on expanding the regional
network of HMIs to make the training more accessible, especially to women (who would,
because of social norms, not be allowed to travel great distances for training) and thereby
increasing the number of qualified health care workers, particularly nurses and midwives.
In addition, by expanding the HMI's capacity at the regional level, a venue for in-service
training would be available to improve the technical skills of existing staff. The central
HMI in Sana'a was expanded as well to accommodate a greater demand for training.
Technical assistance to upgrade the HMI curricula for nursing and medical technicians
was also to be provided to strengthen the training available for these priority cadres of
staff. In addition, the project allowed for technical assistance and training to improve the
management capacities of hospital managers and the establishment of a referral level
MCH emergency unit and a blood bank to support the efforts in management
improvements of clinical services and referrals.
15.   The five HMIs constructed/rehabilitated/extended are staffed and operational. A
total of about 500 additional students per year are being trained in HMIs as a direct result
of the project inputs. The HMI curricula for nursing and medical technicians was
upgraded (under the Family Health Project Cr. 2525-YEM). The MCH emergency unit
and blood bank are operational (about 40 patients a day are seen at the MCH emergency
unit).6 Basic medical equipment and ambulances were procured for distribution to health
5   The satisfactory ratings for the achievement of the project objectives which appear in recent project
status reports reflect achievement of the objectives in the project areas. However, for the sector as a
whole, the development impact is expected to be negligible.
6   The Government has launched a program to improve management of blood banking services and is
seeking advice from a team of the Swiss Red Cross on the role and management of this central blood
banking facility. The Red Cross team visited Yemen in February and May 1999 through a grant from
the Swiss Government secured by the World Bank.



6
facilities based on specified need. Finally, fellowships in hospital management (2 man-
months) and specialized medical training (1.5 man-months) were provided.
16.   It is too early to assess the extent to which this objective has been achieved
because the HMIs only started operating in 1997/1998 and the MCH emergency unit and
blood bank only in 1998. As noted below (paras. 24 and 27), the immediate impact of the
project interventions is generally positive, based on feedback received from the students
of the HMIs and members of the community as well as the staff of the MCH Emergency
and Blood Bank Unit. Nonetheless, the impact of the project is expected to be hindered
by: (i) employment difficulties that female graduates, in particular, of the HMIs are facing
(in 1997 and 1998, the MOPH did not have any slots to recruit medical staff; in 1999
1,500 slots are available and will be targeted to the rural areas); (ii) there is no mechanism
for tracking and measuring the impact of the medical equipment and ambulances
procured; and (iii) although all planned for equipment for the MCH emergency unit and
blood bank was provided, it has now been determined that additional equipment is
needed to make them fully functional. In addition, the MCH emergency unit is very
crowded. Instead of serving as a referral facility, it reports that it is unable to turn
patients away and is therefore providing services which could be more efficiently
provided at lower level facilities. Finally, the technical assistance for improved hospital
management was never provided and the hospital management training program at the
teaching hospital never developed, although 2 man-months of fellowships were provided
in hospital management for 3 hospital managers.
(b) Extension of health services to underserved areas
17.   The second project objective was to strengthen regional services to support the
extension of health services to underserved areas. To achieve this objective, the project
focussed on extending the network of maintenance workshops and pharmaceutical
storage facilities, and on strengthening the capacity of MOH staff in the governorates
through the provision of training in management and administration.
18.   Pharmaceutical storage facilities and maintenance workshops were constructed
and are functional, and staff training was provided. The Borrower's assessment indicates
that the availability of essential drugs has improved in the project areas, however the
management systems at the local level are insufficient to effectively manage the
distribution of these drugs to all facilities, in particular the lower level primary health care
units. In terms of capacity building, training was provided to MOH staff in such areas as
administration, manpower development, statistics, and health education. However, the
objective was not achieved. First, not all of the originally planned medical storage
facilities and maintenance workshops were built under the project (3 of each out of the
planned 9), therefore the extension of support services for the country as a whole was
limited. Second, because of poor construction and maintenance and additional equipment
needs, most of the storage facilities and workshops constructed are not operating at their
expected capacity. In addition, the management of the distribution of supplies to the
periphery remains weak, as noted above. Third, although MOH staff undertook the
training courses, neither the impact on quality of health services nor the quality of the
training itself was assessed.



7
Implementation of Project Components
19.   The main observations regarding the execution of the various components of this
operation are as follows:
(a) Regional Administration and Support Services Development
20.   As a result of the project, 3 (out of the 9 originally planned) maintenance
workshops were constructed in Dhamar, Taiz, and Saadah, and staff trained.7 Although
they are all functional, as noted above, they are not operating at full capacity. Because of
a lack of a national strategy and maintenance management system, poor staff morale, and
limited resources for equipment upgrading, maintenance continues to be a major issue in
the health sector in Yemeni (see SustainabilitY anid Fuituire Strategic Actions section).
21.   The 3 pharmaceutical storage facilities constructed under the project were
completed in 1997 and are also not functioning at full capacity. Defects which affect
their capacity include missing air conditioners, leaking roofs, shortage of storage
containers and shelves, etc. One can argue that the pharnaceutical storage facilities
helped to improve the logistics and supply system for essential drugs in the govemorates
concerned. However, their impact is limited by the poor management of the drug
supplies for the country and the lack of resources to procure drugs in the first place.
22.   627 MOH  staff from  various governorates were trained in administration,
management, nutrition and various other courses. One can expect that providing staff
with training will improve their performance. However, as noted above, the quality and
impact of the training courses were never evaluated.
(b) Health and Human Resources Development
23.   The objective of this component was partially achieved. Particularly to encourage
the participation of women by providing training closer to their community, three new
HMIs with accommodations for students were constructed in Dhamar, Taiz, and Saada,
one was expanded (in Sana'a), and one was rehabilitated (in Ibb). As noted above, as a
result of the project inputs, each year the HMIs are admitting about 500 additional
students to be trained as nurses, midwives, and medical assistants. Additional in-services
training courses in family planning and prenatal care are also now provided at the HMIs.
At the HMI in Sana'a alone, the Institute's training capacity was increased by 40% by the
additional classrooms.
24.   The HMIs were completed in 1997 and began their operation in 1997/1998, which
is why the impact of the training cannot yet be assessed. However, a recently completed
stakeholder assessment indicates that the communities, students, and teachers are pleased
with the achievement of the students and with the fact that women of the community can
study in the community. Women especially are pleased that more female health workers
are and will be available to provide services.
7   See Modifications to Project Design - Civil Works for an explanation for the reduction in the number
of mnaintenance workshops and pharmnaceutical storage facilities.



8
25.   There are, however, a few issues. First, in two of the three governorates where
new institutes were constructed, female graduates report being unable to find
employment. In 1997 and 1998, the MOPH was not provided with any resources for new
medical staff recruits. In 1999, resources for only 1,500 new medical staff recruits were
allocated to the MOPH. This is a very serious issue that needs further attention of the
Government and more collaboration between the public and private sectors. Second, the
teachers and students both report that the classrooms are crowded, compromising the
quality of the training provided. This suggests that Government needs to adjust its
admission policies to ensure that the HMIs only admit the number of students they are
able to accommodate and/or additional classrooms are needed. Finally, as a result of poor
construction, minor repair work of all facilities is needed (e.g., leaking roofs, drainage
and sewage systems are poor, etc.) and is underway.8
(c)    Health Care Managemiient Development
26.   The achievement of this component during the project period was limited. The
MCH emergency unit and blood bank were constructed and equipped. Both facilities
started their operation only in December 1998, therefore it is too early to assess the
impact of this component. Reasons for the delay include: (i) the change in location of the
construction site (from Al Thawra to Al Sabeen Hospital, as noted above); (ii) the lack of
a price escalation clause in the contract (and subsequent slow down in construction); and
(iii) a difficult relation'ship with the contractors.
27.   However, the staff of the MCH emergency unit report that the addition of the unit
has improved the hospital's capacity to manage emergency cases, the over-crowded
conditions for the hospital as a whole have been reduced, and the hospital has been able
to expand its role as a referral facility for neighboring governorates. The capacity to
improve the management of referral cases is, however, compromised by structural
deficiencies (e.g., the delivery room can only accommodate 2 deliveries at a time when
space for 4 is needed). In addition, the upgrading of skills of the medical and managerial
staff was not fully accomplished (the technical assistance to prepare for this skills
upgrading was never implemented although fellowships in hospital management [2 man-
months] and specialized medical training [1.5 man-months] were provided), and there has
been an overall lack of recurrent budget for the hospital to function properly (e.g., there
are shortages of medicines, limited funds to upgrade equipment, etc.).
Major Factors Which Affected the Project
28.   The main factors that affected the project are the following:
(a)    Lag between project appraisal and effectiveness
8   Completing these minor repairs is underway (the maintenance guarantee provided by the contractors
for the first year of operation is still in effect). The Director of the HMI in Sana'a noted that in
general maintenance of HMIs is not an issue - they have adequate funds for maintenance.



9
29.   The project was declared effective in July 1991, 17 months after the project was
appraised and 14 months after Board presentation. As noted above, effectiveness was
hindered by delays in project ratification by the new Parliament of the Republic of Yemen
which was created after unification. With such delays come a loss of momentum, change
in policy makers, and an inevitable shift in sectoral priorities.
(b)   Unification
30.   The project was originally designed and approved by the Board for the YAR.
When the YAR and the PDRY unified in 1990, Sana'a became the capital of the Republic
of Yemen and the seat of government. The transition brought with it social and economic
uncertainty, as well as a considerable challenge to the Government to amalgamate the
civil service, administrative, and management systems of the two countries. This affected
implementation in a number of key areas, in addition to the delay in effectiveness. The
project was launched by a new team at the MOPH, only some of whom would have been
involved in project preparation. On a more macro perspective, with unification came a
shift from a deliberate social policy and corresponding budget to expand PHC (pre-
unification) to an uncohesive social policy and severe budgetary constraints (post-
unification). The management systems, including those for supplies and maintenance,
broke down and have not yet been fully replaced.
(c)   War
31.   The Gulf War (August 1991 to March 1992) resulted in a massive return of
migrant workers from the Gulf states which placed additional strains on the Government's
ability to finance social services, including health services. Perhaps more relevant for this
project, the Civil War (May to July, 1994) effectively shut down all project activities.
(d)   Inflation
32.   As noted above (para. 9) a decision was made to substantially reduce the number
of civil works activities out of concern that because of inflation, there would be
insufficient funds to complete all the civil works inputs.  In addition, there were
considerable delays in completing civil works activities because of the lack of a price
escalation clause in signed contracts which resulted in the contractors stopping work
altogether until an agreed upon amendment to the contract could be developed. This
issue affected implementation in all sectors with which the Bank was involved. It took
the Bank and the Government about 18 months to develop a solution which was
acceptable to all parties concerned.



10
(e)    Bureaucracy
33.   As noted in a number of the periodic implementation reviews, the Government's
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures for contract and expenditure approvals seriously
slowed down implementation. Streamlining the clearance procedures for IDA projects
has been given serious attention recently by IDA and the Government and improvements
are being made on a cross-sectoral basis. In addition, the PMO organized a Steering
Committee (which is providing guidance for the ongoing Family Health Project as well)
towards the end of implementation which includes senior representatives from the key
ministries. This initiative has also greatly expedited decision making and resolution of
issues.
(f    Low morale among civil servants
34.   The combination of inflation, low civil service salaries, and periods during which
there was limited leadership within the MOPH, had a detrimental effect on the morale of
the staff charged with implementinig the project (e.g., the staff of the directorates
concerned). During certain periods of implementation, few of the ministry staff were
doing any substantial work. A change in leadership which brought with it a sense of
sectoral direction and priorities, and adjustments to salary scales, has improved the
morale of staff concerned.
Summary of Key Lessons Learned Applied to Future Operations
35.   Lessolls. The lessons to be drawn from this project implementation experience
include:
*  Objectives/components. Project objectives should be specific and clearly defined. In
addition, the components slhould be not only necessary, but also sufficient to achieve
these objectives.
*  Integration with national strategy. The impact of inputs which are focussed at the
regional level (e.g., the pharmaceutical stores) will be greater if the national programs
are in place to support these peripheral units.
*  Female health workers. Several studies have indicated that the women are hindered
from seeking care because of the unavailability of female health workers. Although
this project succeeded in increasing the availability of training for women, and hence
the total number of female health staff available, the recent graduates are not able to
find employment with the public sector which suggests the need to ensure that project
inputs are linked to macroeconomic realities.
*  Project management. Having the right staff in charge of project management and
ensuring that the PIU is integrated with the MOPH operations are key for effective
implementation. Poor project management under this project was illustrated by the
weak records management, lack of attention to monitoring and evaluation, and



I1
inattention to detail (e.g., approving final payments for works which were of poor
quality).  In addition, the day to day bureaucratic procedures in Yemell hinder
implementation.
*  Monitoring and evaluation. Effective monitoring strategies need to be defined during
the preparation of a project and systems put in place for evaluation prior to project
implementation.
Onigoinig and Futture Operationis
36.   Ongoing operations. There are two Bank/Government of Yemell programs to
which these lessons of experience are particularly relevant: the Family Health Project (Cr.
2525-YEM) and the Child Development Project. With respect to the Family Health
Project, a number of key project activities have been refocussed to become pilot activities
which will allow for the development of an effective link between the central and
peripheral units (e.g., the MIS is being piloted at the central level and in 2 governorates).
This will ensure that development of regional capacity is not done in the absence of the
central support systems needed for their operation. The project is also supporting the
establishment of a Drug Fund, which will operate as an independent agency and be
charged with managing the procurement, storage, and distribution of pharmaceuticals
since it is clear that the MOPH does not have the capacity to perform these functions
effectively. The project staff have all been selected on a competitive basis, renewable
annually, so that only qualified staff are involved in project implementation. In addition,
monitoring and evaluation systems have been developed (e.g., establishment of baseline
indicators and regular review of the impact and quality of training programs) so that
policy makers can be provided with qualitative and quantitative analyses of the project's
impact. Finally, the project is supporting the provision of technical assistance to develop
the MOPH's reform program. A key element of this reform program is to revisit the
MOPH's role in the delivery and financing of health services to ensure consistency with
the macroeconomic environment.
37.   With respect to the proposed Child Development Project (CDP), careful attention
has been given to the management and administrative capacity of the ministries involved,
and their sub-national offices, to handle project implementation. Targeted capacity
building for project management has been incorporated into the project's design and will
be further bolstered by UNICEF's field presence.9 In addition, UNICEF, who has proven
experience in project implementation, will take a lead role in project implementation to
ensure effective project management.  In terms of the CDP's consistency with
macroeconomic realities, project preparation has been done in consideration of the
findings and recommendations of the Public Expenditure Program to ensure
sustainability. Finally, clear monitoring and evaluation mechanisms have been developed
and agreed upon during project preparation.
9  Through a unique partnership agreement, UNICEF will be responsible for managing the
implementation of a number of project activities in collaboration with Government counterparts.



12
38.   With respect to future operations, the lesson learned about the link between the
micro and macroeconomic realities will be particularly relevant. The private and NGO
sectors are playing an increasing role in the provision of health services, from direct
provision of care to the provision of supplies (e.g., phamiaceuticals and medical supplies
sold through pharmacies). Greater collaboration and cooperation with these sectors is a
priority in the Government's recently issued sector reform strategy, both because the
private and NGO sectors' increasing role in the health sector is so apparent and because
of the Govemment's acknowledgement that they do not have the resources or capacity to
manage the provision of services for the entire population. This shift in strategy draws
into question the need for the public sector to operate indepenidently. For example, the
Government will revisit whether they need to manage equipmiienlt maintenance or whether
this might be more effectively assumed by the private or NGO sectors. As noted above,
the MOPH is already moving on this initiative for the managemiienlt of phamiaceuticals.
Future collaboration in the health sector will involve further support to the evolving role
of the MOPH and direct coordinationi with the private and NGO sectors.
39.   Manpower development is another key area that needs to be addressed effectively
under future operations to ensure effective linkages between project inputs and
macroeconomic realities. As noted, the students trained in the project HMIs are having
difficulty finding jobs in the public sector after graduation. This reflects the broader issue
that the Govemment has with respect to management of civil administration. Human
resource management is an issue that is being addressed on a number of fronts. Under the
Family Health Project, a strategy for manpower management is being prepared. This
strategy will provide the MOPH with the basic tools to strengthen the link between
training, staff deployment, and human resources management. In addition, the MOPH
has volunteered to be one of the two pilot ministries to participate in a major civil service
reform program which will be supported through the Public Sector Management
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 31780). In the future, the MOPH will be better equipped to
ensure that support for training better matches actual needs.
Borrower and Bank Performance
40.   Borrower's performance. The Borrower's performance was partially satisfactory.
IDA Guidelines were followed, regular progress reports were submitted, and most agreed
upon deadlines were met. Most of the initial PMO staff also had prior experience in IDA
operations. The key weakness with the Borrower's performance was the lack of attention
to project monitoring (e.g., ensuring the quality of civil works) and evaluation (e.g., of the
training programs). In addition, management of records (e.g., documentation on project
activities completed in the early years of implementation and, for a period of time,
financial records) was poor. On a more macro perspective, the Government could have
been more reactive in streamlining the bureaucratic procedures it imposed on day to day
project management operations.
41.   Bank's performance. The Bank's performance during project preparation and
implementation was also partially satisfactory. In terms of preparation, in hindsight the



13
objectives defined should have been more in line with what the individual components
could actually deliver. The project design also appeared to overlook the important
linkage between the center and the periphery. In addition, more extensive preparation by
the team and the Government counterparts could have avoided having to complete
preparatory activities after the project was effective (e.g., equipment lists, final
architectural plans, TA tender documents).
42.   The Bank approach to supporting implementation could be described in two
phases. During the first years of implementation (pre-1995), the Bank's input was
relatively passive, in part because of the exogenous factors, but also because of the low
level of dialogue with the Government at that time. Consideration should have been
given to restructuring the project after unification in light of the major transition that
comes with amalgamating two countries. Greater initiative to resolve cross sectoral
issues, such as the contract issue due to the lack of price escalation clause, should also
have been taken. Finally, a mid-term review of the project should have been completed.
A mid-term review was never completed because by the time the project was 3 years into
implementation, all of the major civil works activities which were to be completed under
the project had already been contracted. Therefore it was expected that the remainder of
the project period would be devoted to completing what was already underway, with little
leeway for change. This first phase was marked by a rather ad hoc and piecemeal
approach to project management.
43.   During the second phase of project implementation, the Bank became more
proactive. Unification and the civil war issues were behind. The Resident Mission,
established in 1995, was now able to provide support and address issues on the ground.
The Bank also focused more intensively on implementation at the project level as well as
the country portfolio level (e.g., by conducting Country Portfolio Performance Reviews to
identify and address cross-sectoral issues). However, in terms of monitoring project
impact, the focus perhaps became too narrow on the specific areas targeted under the
project rather than considering the sector as a whole. This is illustrated by the satisfactory
ratings of the achievement of development objectives which appear in project status
reports during this period. In addition, some of the project management weaknesses were
overlooked. Greater attention should have been paid to such project management inputs
as financial and project record keeping by the PIU.10
C.  SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE STRATEGIC ACTIONS
44.   There are three key issues with respect to sustainability of the project: (i)
availability of proper staff skills and adequate level of budget for maintenance of
equipment and infrastructure; (ii) managerial and administrative mechanisms to make
0  In October 1998 a supervision mission highlighted that financial management practices under the
project were poor and a detailed plan of action to address this issue was prepared (see the
Memorandum of Understanding from the October 1998 mission for a complete discussion). During
the next supervision mission, the team was pleased to note that the action plan for improved financial
management had been successfully implemented.



14
effective use of the regional support services (e.g., the maintenance workshops and
pharmaceutical stores); and (iii) provision of sufficient funds for operating expenses. The
strategic actions to be taken to address these issues of sustainability are highlighted below
and in the "Ongoing and Future Operations" section. A major theme of the MOPH's
reform strategy is sustainability and improving management capacity.
45.   Maintenance. With respect to maintenance, as noted above the Government's
proposed reform program will revisit the Government's role in such support services.
Consideration is being given to the concept of contracting out such services and/or
forming partnerships with the private and NGO sectors. If the Government is going to
continue to manage equipment and infrastructure maintenance, then appropriate
management systems need to be put in place and adequate resources provided. As a
follow-up activity to the recently completed Public Expenditure Review of the health
sector, an operations and maintenance study is being launched (May 1999) which will: (i)
develop a process for pro-forma estimation of operations and maintenance costs for
health infrastructure; and (ii) examine the major gaps between the required costs and
actual budgets allocated at the facility level to provide the basic data for conducting a
more in-depth cost-analysis of the resources required to support MOPH infrastructure.
The study will provide the Government with a basic tool for quantifying their
maintenance requirements as a guide for resource allocation decisions. Similarly, under
the ongoing Family Health Project, a comprehensive program to pilot improved
maintenance services has been launched.
46.   Regional resouirces.  Making effective use of regional resources is a major
challenge for the Government. An initial step has been taken by the MOPH to delegate
resources and management responsibilities to the regional level, moving away from
centralized control. However, having an impact through decentralization requires that the
management capacity be in place at the regional level and that the basic information
systems are in place to ensure effective links with the central level. The basic premise is
that local managers would have a better understanding of local needs and would hence be
in a better position to allocate resources according to these needs. With respect to the
project inputs, for example, local managers would be better able to determine what type
and quantity of drugs should be stored in the phannaceutical stores and develop an
efficient link between the storage facilities and the service providers. The sustainability
of the regional project inputs will be based, in large part, on the extent to which managers
at the local level are provided with the basic tools to use them effectively, and the extent
to which at the central level, management systems are in place to provide adequate
support.
47.   Recurrenit expenditures. The lack of resources for recurrent expenditures could
have a major impact on the sustainability of project inputs, from the functioning of the
MCH emergency and blood bank unit, to the availability of drugs to be stored in the
pharmaceutical stores. The Government is tackling this issue on a number of fronts: (i)
fiscal austerity measures are in place to ensure that scarce resources are used effectively
(e.g., the MOPH placed a moratorium on new construction in 1999); (ii) follow-up to the
public expenditure review will provide additional information on resource requirements



15
to rationalize the resource allocation decisions and procedures; and (iii) strategies to
recover part of the operating costs are being considered and implemented (for example,
user fees are now being imposed in most MOPH facilities on an ad hoc basis). There is
no simple solution to ensure that adequate resources are available for the facilities to
function well, particularly given the Government's current fiscal constraints. However,
the MOPH's strategy to rationalize the collection and use of user fees, combined with its
collaborate efforts with the private and NGO sectors represents opportunities for
mobilizing additional resources.






PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION"
Introduction
To increase the effectiveness and the quality of health services, the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) decided to develop the Health Sector Development Project with the International
Development Association (IDA) (credit dated February 6, 1991). The objectives of the project
were to: (i) increase the effectiveness, quality and level of services of the existing health care
system in the project areas; and (ii) facilitate the extensions of health services to understand
communities through the development of regional support services of health care delivery. The
actual work started on August 23, 1991 and was completed on December 31, 1998. The project
was completed in seven years and three months.
The following inputs were designed to achieve the objectives:
* Increasing the effectiveness and quality of services by improving the quality of staffs through
the construction of HMIs, constructing a maternal and child health care department,
constructing blood bank unit at a principal referral hospital in Sana'a, and strengthening the
management capabilities of managers, provision of technical assistance, fellowships and
training the health care providers.
* Expanding regional support services through the construction of regional maintenance
workshops and pharmaceutical shortage facilities, and the provision of training for staff to
support these facilities and staff in regional administrative position.
The Executed Work. The work that was executed by the project was as follows:
-  Construction and equipping emergency department and blood bank in Al Sabeen
Hospital, Sana'a.
*  Construction and equipping Health Institutes in Taiz, Dhamar, and Sa'adah
*  Extension of Health Institutes in Sana'a and Ibb
*  Local training of MOPH staff in accounting, management, statistics, using computer and
typing
*  Providing spare parts for equipment maintenance
Al Hodeidah project was implemented from the 2525 project whereas those in Marib, Al Jawf,
Hajja, Al Mahwit and Al Baidah are delayed because the procedure of land acquisition was not
finalized.
11    A complete and unedited version of the Borrower's Evaluation is available in the project files.



17
Findings and Discussion
Taiz Governorate
The project supported the following activities in Taiz: building medical store, extension of the
HMI, construction of accommodations for male and female students, and the provision of
equipment and furniture.
Health Manpower Institute. At present 8 classes are operating while the other 8 classes are
still under finishing processes due to the delay in receiving the budget by the contractor. The
actual work according to the requirement of the project is done.
Total number of the studying at the institute are: 852 students (340 females, 512 males)
Total number staying at the HMI accommodation are: 408 (295 females, 113 males)
The extensions of classes and the provision of students accommodation helped in recruiting
female health workers to study far away from home. But there are constraints to employing these
female health workers in the public sector because the government has no job vacancies.
Therefore, these girls are left without being supervised or are employed by the private health
sector which attracts the graduates with better wages. But the girls are enjoying high spirits and
feel that they will not be staying at home after graduating from the health institute. They say they
will deliver their service to the small, isolated communities scattered nearby, even if they had to
utilize a room in their home as a private clinic.
The students accommodation increased the access to women for health care services, but more
primary level health care providers are needed to give better health care coverage.
Some of the female dropouts reported being unable to afford the cost of living during the training
period. Therefore, provision of financial incentives will attract more female health care workers.
Teacher's View. The teachers feel overloaded, and that the classes are too crowded, which leads
to difficulty in doing the practical training because there are not enough educational materials
and it is inefficient.
Doctor's View. The doctors feel that the idea of increasing the number of health workers is very
good because it will raise the level of nursing in hospitals and assist in the delivery of primary
health care in the community, particularly for mother and child health care.
Student's View. The students feel happy to have the opportunity to study as health workers and
to help their community, but they complain of crowded classrooms, which does not give them a
good opportunity to concentrate on the lectures or get equal chance for getting the practical
training during the field work.



18
The Community's View. The parents and the community feel proud that their children are
studying to be future health workers in the society. The parents feel more satisfied because of the
security available at the hostels, especially for the females. The HMI in Taiz governorate enjoys
very good reputation of security and good education level.
Community Officials. Their view is that the community started to be aware of the need of
health services and are ready to allow their daughters to study at the schools that are far away
from their village. The also realize the need for these health workers in their community.
Comments on Civil Works
Health Manpower Institute. A retaining wall is required to protect the old building, the front
area of the extension building should be leveled, a fence around the building is necessary to
protect the medical store and the institute because of the bad locality it is situated in, the
classrooms are small in comparison of the number of students (30 -50 students in one session),
due to the crowding in the classrooms, the lights and ventilation are not enough.
Male Hostel. Leaking roof, some of the windows have broken handles which need to be
replaced; the sanitary manhole is connected to the main hole, but because of the increasing
number of the students the drainage system is blocked every now and then, therefore it is
necessary to increase the diameters of the drainage pipes.
Additional requirements to support operation of the HMI: audio-visual equipment, provision
of up to date library, and office equipment (e.g., photocopier, computer). The HMI in Taiz feels
the demand for additional classrooms, because the number of acceptance is becoming greater.
Therefore the HMI is ready to offer the land for construction and will offer the general services
as well if the building construction is funded.
Medical store in Taiz
The medical store in Taiz consists of 4 rooms, 1 laboratory, 2 office and 3 toilets.
Number of employees: 4 pharmacists, 2 pharmnacy technicians, 2 workers, and 2 guards.
The Present Situation. The medical store assists in storage of medicine adequately.
Achievements. The quality of health services is improved by the availability of essential drugs,
the improvement of logistics and supply system for essential drugs made a reliable supply of low
cost essential drugs available through the government facilities, and safe and affordable drugs are
available in the public sector.
Constraints. The medical store has no vehicle for supervision of distribution and utilization of
medicine at the health facilities. There is a shortage of containers for storage and shelves for
medicine, air conditioners and thermometers in the storerooms are unavailable.



19
Requirements. Training courses in medicine laboratory, management planning and policy of
medicine, a vehicle for supervision and follow-up of distribution policy, containers, suitable for
medicine storage, thermometers, a protecting fence around the building.
Equipment. The equipment was received and checked by a committee appointed by the MOPH
and the health service department in Taiz. The equipment received were according to the
request, however the staff feel additional equipment (e.g., thermometers and an appropriate cold
storage container (the current one is a normal freezer which is not suitable for storing vaccines
because it freezes them)) are needed.
Civil Works. There is leakage from the roof (dampness appears on some of the walls), rain
water enter the room from the windows frames due to poor finishing work, lighting is inadequate
and it should be replaced by florescent tube lights.
Ibb Governorate
Health Manpower Institute. The construction in Ibb govemorate consist of a HMI, teachers'
accommodation and a male students accommodation. The HMI has five classrooms and one
room is used as office for the director general and the teachers. The space of each classroom,
according to the plan, is for 30 students, but it is used for 50 or more students in each classroom,
which makes the classrooms very crowded. The kitchen and the messroom were changed into
lecture, training room and laboratory, the parking space is used as kitchen and messroom, the
secretary's room was changed into a library, and the capacity of the hostel rooms are for two but
it is used for three. Otherwise the civil works in general is good, except in some area of the
building there are leakage due to cracks between the slabs of the roof. The equipment received
were according to the request list. The overall condition of the institute is good, so is the light
and the ventilation.
Student's accommodation. There is only male students' accommodation. The space of the
hostel is for 2 students, but at present 3 students are staying in each room.
The Health Manpower Institute
Number of classes                                    5
Number of male students                           253
Number of female students                           87
Number of students living in the Institute accommodation   72
Courses conducted: (i) community midwifery; and (ii) nursing.
Female students. The females study only as midwifes as follows: 33 first year, 30 second year,
and 24 third year students.
The number of females and male health workers increased considerably with the extension,
increasing from 80 to 855 students. This is causing over crowding.



20
Achievements
* The construction of the HMI and the boarding accommodation for male students from the
remote areas is very good.
* The number of students increased from 90 to 340. The number of females in particular has
increased by nearly 50% (from 54 to I 10 female students).
Results of the multi sectoral and focus group discussion. The community leaders are aware of
the need of health services, and are willing to allow their children to be taught to become health
care providers. The mothers said that they are of great need of females to study for health care,
because they are the ones who suffer a lot during pregnancy, delivery and child care. They also
insisted that there should be an accommodation for the females stay during their study, and with
full security. Having a HMI in this governorate is very good and helpful to the community
because it helps in graduating the locals in the same govemorate as well as it saves a lot of
expenditure for those who used to study at the city institutes.
The women's view about health services in the community. The women in the community
are happy to receive health care from the female health care provider from the same community.
They are proud that the girls of their community are providing such services which they are badly
in need of, and it is saving a lot of money and energy to go to the Sana'a city for getting health
care services.
Teacher's view. The teachers are overloaded % ith the students and suggest that more classes be
constructed so that the students get proper way of studying and get better means of education.
For example the students are obliged to sit on the floor, because the number of the acceptance is
higher than the space in the class or the number of the classrooms.
Constraints and problems
3 The number of students are greater than the space, for both the classrooms and the
accommodation. For example, some of the rooms which are utilized for accommodation
have no bed, so mattresses are furnished to be placed on plain tiles of the floor which is very
cold during the winter seasons.
. The health institute lacks teaching materials such as audio-visual aids.
* No means of transportation is available for students who are staying far from the institute.
. No job vacancies for the graduates at the government's health facilities.
Requirements
1. Construction of female accommodations
2. Provision of educational materials
3. Construction of additional classes
4. Provision of practical room for practical training
5. Provision of maintenance and fuel for transportation
6. Provision of bus for transportation of the students
7. Assist and encourage other specialized courses such as: Public Health, Medical Assistance,
Pharmacy, Laboratory, and X-Ray
Dhamar Governorate



21
Health Manpower Institute
The HMI in Dhamar has 5 classes and 1 practical room
Total number of the students are            104
Total number of females students are         19
Total number of male students are            85
Number of rooms for females are              18
Number of girls staying at the hostel        18
Number of male teachers are                   9
Number of female teachers are                 3
The courses conducted are: practical nursing and community midwifery (2 year courses).
Additional courses available
1. Advance community midwifery (3 year course)    29
2. Female health guides                           12
Achievements. The community leaders appreciate the existing services provided by the HMI,
and are proud to have their children studying in that school, because high transportation costs and
poor health services were the major constraints to people's access to health care, for that reason it
was a big need for the community to have their children studying in the same governorate. The
also mentioned that there are so many health problems in the villages which are being taken care
of by these graduates of the HMI, because the health care providers are from the same
community. The existence of the HMI and the students' accommodation helped very much in
allowing equal opportunities for the students both males and females to study about health care
services that helped in improving the community's health status. The women in the community
are happy, because they feel relaxed that there are female health workers in their community who
understand their language and traditions, therefor they feel easy to be cared by these midwifes.
Constraints and problems
* The space of the classroom is small, and the number of the students is large, causing over
crowding in the classrooms and difficulty in teaching and learning.
* No means of transportation, causing difficulties in getting the female health care providers to
the sites for practical training.
* No incentives and job vacancies for the students, leading to depression and less interest in
providing their activities as required.
* Lack of educational materials such as audio-visual aids.
Recommendations
1. Incentives for the female health workers for transportation and food especially if they work at
the rural area.
2. Provision of educational materials (e.g., audio-visual aids).
3. Construction of new extension as practical rooms for the midwives practical training.
4. Provision of computer, for information and archived purposes.



22
5. Provision of 2 busses for transporting students, especially the females
6. Provision of basic office equipment.
7. A library is very necessary for the student's references and further education.
8. Assist in organizing Public Health and Medical Assistance training courses.
Civil works
Water paint is used in the classrooms, which should be changed to oil paint to last longer and the
institute complex should be fenced for protection.
Hostel (males and females): (i) room capacity is for 2 students, but it is used for 3 students; (ii)
due to the increased number of students, the TV room is used as a bedroom; and (iii) Dhamar
governorate is very cold during the winter season, therefore the rooms need heaters and the
sewage system needs water heaters.
Staff Accommodations. The construction of the building is completed 100%, but the design
orientation of rooms is not proportional with the climate conditions. One of the rooms is not
being utilized because it is very chilly in the winter.
Equipment. All the and furniture received were according to the list of request, but there are
some equipment left without catalogue to utilize it. The reason for this is that those who are
using it are not the same people how received it. In addition, some of the furniture is not suitable
for the season. Dhamar is very cold during the winter, and the blankets are too small and thin to
use it in such a season.
Medical Store
The medical store has 4 rooms and 2 rooms are used as offices. The civil work of the medical
store is completed 100%, except there are some minor defects such as: (i) lighting of the rooms
are insufficient; (ii) ventilation is not satisfactory; (iii) carpentry work is poor; and (iv)
construction materials are left around the medical store, which give bad view of the area.
Number of staffs working at the medical store are: 2 pharmacist and 3 technical assistants
Requirements
1. Means of transportation
2. Cold room
3. Exhaust fan
4. Elevators
5. Portable cold boxes
6. Additional shelves



23
Medical workshop
The construction is 100 complete except for some minor defects (e.g., internal wire installation is
done, but no power is available and shelves are not fixed to be utilized as required).
Suggestions
1. The role of the medical workshop is not well understood. Everything received is kept in a
mess because there are no instructions on how to use them. Clear objectives of this workshop
is required.
2. Training of a maintenance technician, because there are many medical equipment out of order.
3. Provision of catalogues of the equipment available to make better use of it.
4. Provision of extra funds because of the lack of incentives for travel and lack of fuel for
medicine distribution cause much delay in medicine distribution.
Sa'adah Governorate
The HMI in Sa'adah has 5 classes and I practical room
Total number of the students are             1 18
Total number of females students are          18
Total number of male students are             110
Total number of students staying at the hostel are    65
Number of rooms for females are               18
Number of females staying at the hostel       18
The course conducted in this institute are community midwifery and nursing
Achievements. The existence of the HMI helped in recruiting health care providers from the
same communities, therefore it will increase the access to health care facilities, which will help
to improve the health status of the communities. The presence of female health care providers
from the same community, especially midwives, provides an environment in which women are
more comfortable.
Constraints and problems:
* Delay of the teacher's budget (wages and allowances).
* Insufficient availability of fuel delays the students' practical training.
* Lack of audio-visual aids.
* Lack of specialized teachers.
* The number of male students is greater than the capacity of the classrooms and the hostel,
causing overcrowding and uneasiness.
Requirements
* Education material such as audio-visual aids, over-head projectors
* Some of the equipment of practical training of midwifery
* Some office equipment



24
Equipment. Most of the equipment received was not according to the check list, and some of
them were broken, which was mentioned to the receiving committee during the checking and
receiving period.
Civil works.   The civil work completed are: HMI, boys hostel, girls hostel, staff
accommodations, medical store, and a medical workshop. In general, finishing work is poor.
For example, there are:
* Cracks in the roof - rain water is leaking in all the building and collects at the main gate
causing difficulty at moving in and out.
. Rainwater enter to the rooms from the windows.
* Some minor cracks on the walls
* Window frame does not close properly (bad quality).
* The drainage system is very poor, toilet and wastewater are left undrained.
. The septic tank is near the building, causing very bad smell inside the rooms.
* Due to low pressure, there is no water supply to the second floor of the building.
* The outer manhole is left uncovered.
* The open areas covered by weak concrete layer.
Sana'a Governorate
Health Manpower Institute
The course conducted are: medical assistance, laboratory technician, X-ray technician,
midwifery, nursing, and pharmacy technician
No. of first year students for the year 1998 - 1999:
* X-Ray           5 students    4 from Sana'a and I from Hajja govemorate
* Medical assistance 2   "     1 from Sana'a and I from Hodaidah governorate
* Laboratory      6   "        I from Sana'a, 2 from Sana'a City, 2 from Taiz
and I from Hodeidah govemorate.
. Nursing         4   "        3 from Sana'a and 1 from Sana'a City.
. Midwifery       21  "        From Sana'a.
Number of second and third year students:
. Public health         70
* Medical assistant     151
* Pharmacy technician   158
* Laboratory technician    127
* X-ray technician       78
. Nursing               138
* Midwifery              17
* Anesthesia technician  23
Total                    763



25
The number of students both males and females has increased from 40-50% due to the extension
of the HMI. In this way the HMI will be able to cover the need of all the governorates according
to its plan, facilitating and improving health services in those areas where health services are
insufficient or lacking.
Recommendation and remarks
* Cracks observed on roofs, and leakage of rainwater seen under the roof and on the walls.
* The upper roof layer should be replaced by new layer of riclher concrete to stop leakage.
* The tables of the laboratory are made of concrete hiollow blocks covered with tiles, finishing
work is very poor. The maintenance of the water pipes to the basin is very difficult, wlich
need to break the walls for redoing it a better way, that could be useful. In general the
finishing work is poor.
* The glass windows in the toilets are transparenit and should be chanige to blind glass.
Al Sabeen Hospital
The extension of Al Sabeen Hospital helped a lot in decreasing the pressure from the old
hospital, it is now serving all the neighboring governorate and districts. The MCH services
assisted in following up the pregnancies and tracing the high risk women with pregnancy and
providing her with maternal care at the hospital with less complication. The extension of the
delivery room, though small, offered good help to women to have a safe delivery. The MCH
Emergency and Blood Bank were completed in June 1998 and started operating on August 2,
1998.
The Delivery Room is not operation effectively due to the following reasons: (i) the area is
too small to accommodate the needs; (ii) the height of the room is insufficient for the headlights;
and (iii) the window glasses are too low and transparent, which exposes the delivery room to the
outside view. It could have been better if the following would be available in the delivery room:
thete are only two delivery beds, whereas the number of deliveries are more than 4 at a time;
some equipment, such as forceps for obstructed labor, would facilitate the delivery work better;
fluid suction machine, cardiotocography for children, covers for the mattresses to avoid being
soiled are also necessary; screens between the delivery beds would give more privacy and
reassurance to the women; the window are too big and with plain glass, curtains would avoid
much of the curiosity of the outsiders who could easily see inside; portable beds would assist in
patient transport; electric (Doppler Amplifier) would assist in hearing accurate fetal heat beats;
ultrasound machine in the delivery room would avoid the transfer of the women to the x-ray
room in critical cases; and an ambulance would help in transferring the patients to specialized
hospitals.
The Operation Theater: (i) the area is not sufficient to be utilize as an operation theater,
because it is inadequate for conducting operation and easy movements; (ii) the electrical
connecting points are on the floor, which could be dangerous, because while cleaning the room,
there is possibility of water touching the electrical wires; (iii) the ventilation points are available
but there are no connecting valves; and (iv) the wash basin is not suitable for scrubbing in
preparation for an operation.



26
Children's Emergency Operation Room. Ventilation points are not working, and the defects
are similar as the adults operation room.
Intensive Care Rooms. No ventilation, oxygen points are not functioning, no valves are
available, rainwater enters from the windows.
X-ray Room. No ventilation or exhausting fan is available in the rooms.
Sterilization Room. There is bad smell in this room, due to the unavailability of the ventilation
or exhaust fan; vertical crack observed on the front wall; and there is no automatic electric supply
in this room, therefore if the electric power goes off, work is stopped, because the connection of
the internal power generation is in another room.
The Children's Emergency Room. Some of the accessories for some of the equipment needed
in this section is very necessary, such as: ambu-bag, endo-trachea tube, otoscope, and
ophthalmoscope, and catalogues for some of the equipment are not available
The Blood Bank
The blood bank complains that the solutions used for the equipment available should be from the
same company of manufacture, otherwise it is left without being utilized if solution are not
available. Further, additional equipment is needed to expand the work of the blood bank.
Some horizontal crack are seen on the walls. In general defects were observed, though minor
some of them, but many here and there, for example dampness were also realized on the corridor
walls. The tiles are not use for hospital's construction; they are simple tiles used for domestic
purposes, and there are spaces left unfilled between the joints of the tiles. Some of these defects
are due to poor finishing work. There are no telephone connections between sections such as
operation theater, laboratory, blood bank, etc.
The Bank's and Government's performance
The Bank's performance. The Bank's performance during the implementation period was very
positive in its way of keeping close contact with PIU and tracing regular reports of the
implantation. The Bank offered good facilities to ease the work for the PIU. The team selected
for the project preparation was well qualified and it cooperated very well with the PIU team
during the implementation period. The Bank's performance, in terms of supervision had been
very satisfactory. The supervisory team was always available during its visits to Yemen
whenever it was called upon at Bank's headquarter to provide assistance in solving problems
encountered during the project implementation. The availability of the Bank's staff both during
the field missions and from the headquarter assisted much in the completion of the project. The
Bank was quiet flexible to create funds to be used to address key priorities, responded quiet well
to the requests and correspondence from the Borrower, and was able to provide support from the
resident mission as needed.



27
The Government's performance. In terms of the implementation process, the performance of
the project team was very satisfactory. The administrative management unit was set up within
the Ministry of Health, where close supervision of the execution was easily performed. All the
procedures of personnel training, procurement disbursement management was carefully
facilitated and maintained satisfactorily. The administrative personals were carefully selected
who did good job of management and monitoring, in spite of the bureaucratic procedure
practiced by the government's management, they had a productive relationships with the other
donors. The Borrowers accounts records were kept adequately with appropriate auditing.
Conclusions
In spite of the small defects of the construction of the buildings of the institute, students and the
staff accommodation and the medical* store, this project has played a great role in the
development of health services in all the parts of the project. It encouraged the female health
workers to join the health sectors and increased the number of male health care providers. The
recruitment of female health workers served much to improve the coverage in those areas where
the health status of the women and the children were low. The female health workers assisted
much in encouraging women to be examined and checked up during pregnancies and
childbearing. The prevalence of family planning also increased.
The health institute in the district gave the opportunity to more female and health care providers
to study and work in their community, where they are acceptable and available among the
population catchment area. This contributes to the maintenance of the project's sustainability.
The improvement in knowledge and skills of health worker has been improved to a certain
degree in most part of Yemen. As for the Project areas, the training courses conducted for the
health staff, in particular the females, is good, but unfortunately, most of the project areas has no
public health center or health units for the graduates to practice, or the government sector has no
vacancies to accept the newly graduates to be employed as public health staff, therefore they are
either employed by the private sector or are the victims of early marriage, specially the girls.
And those who by luck get a job at the government health sector, low wages make the health
staff feel demoralized and discouraged to work efficiently.
The essential drug supply through the medical stores at the project areas are satisfactory. There
are organizational and management problems at the districts due to the lacking of transportation,
sometimes the complain is, failure to deliver and supervise the distribution of the essential drugs,
vaccines, and other medical equipment to the entire PHC system.
There are indicators of improvement of health care, but it would be better if the management of
health system would be strengthened more. Specifically the political and economic context
needs to be confronted before the technical aspects of management. It should be as the saying"
The right person in the right place".



28
Strengthening monitoring and information system will help in getting the current information of
health status providing the pictures of progress. It would also help in indicating real access to
health care, the efficiency and the quality of health care, that would provide the policymaker with
the information they need to make decision about healtlh.






PART III: STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B:     Summary of Training Activities
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Investment Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions






I
Table 1: Summarv of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                  l             O              O                E
Sector Policies                O              E              O                O
Financial Objectives           E              O              0                El
Institutional Development      E              0              E                El
Physical Objectives            E              0              E                E
Poverty Reduction              E              E              0                E
Gender Issues                  E              E              O                E
Other Social Objectives        E              E              0                E
Environmental Objectives       El             E              El               0
Public Sector Management       El             0              0                E
Private Sector Development     E              E              E                0
B. Project Sustainability        Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
El                     El                      0
Highly
C. Bank Performance             satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                 E                     0                       El
Preparation Assistance          l                    El                      0
Appraisal                      E                     O                       0
Supervision                   O                      E                       0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          satisfactory        Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                    E                     0                       E
Implementation                 El                    E                       El
Covenant Compliance            E                     0l                      E
Highly                                       Hi hly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
El            El             0                El



2
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                  Year of         Status
Approval                 l
Previous Operations
Second Health         To improve the health status and quality  1988     Completed.
Development (Cr. 1972;  of health services.                              Bank/OED
US4.5 million)                                                           rating:
Satisfactory
Operations under Wav and in Preparation
Family Health (Cr.    To improve the delivery of health        1993      Completion
2525; US26.6 million)   services and strengthen management of            expected in
health resources.                                 September
2000
Social Fund for       To reduce poverty by improving living    1997      Completion
Development (Cr. 2953;  conditions and providing income                  expected in
US30.0 million)       generation opportunities to the poor.              June 2003
Public Sector         :To improve public sector performance    1999      Completion
Management            so that it can make better use of scarce           expected in
Adjustment Credit (Cr.  financial and human resources.                   March 2000
31780; US50 million)                                                   I
Child Development     To assist the Govemment of Yemen in    Board Date:  Appraisal
Project               the implementation of a coordinated   July 1999    Mission: May
area-based program (ABP) for                      1999
improving the health and nutritional
status of children under five and the
educational status of girls in primary
school                                           I
Social Fund II        Not yet determined.                   Board Date   Appraisal
May 2000    Mission:
January 2000



3
Table 3: Project Timetable
[      eSteps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned              Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            3/18 - 4/5/1989
Preparation                                                          10/25 - 11/11/1989
Appraisal                                        10/1989               2/15 - 3/1/1990
Negotiations                                     4/1990               4/23 - 4/26/1990
Board Presentation                               8/1990                  5/31/1990
Signing                                                                   2/6/1991
Effectiveness                                                            7/31/1991
Midterm Review                                    1993
Proj'ect Completion                             6/30/1996                6/30/1998
Loan Closing                                   12/31/1996                12/31/1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in millions of US$)
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate    0 6   3.2     8.4    13.2    14.5    14.9    15.0        --
Actual              --     0.56    0.68    2.34    2.77    3.45    5.90    13.38   15.76
Actual as % of     0.0      17.5    8.1    17.7    19.1    23.2    39.3
estimate
Date of final disbursement:                                                   April 30,1999
Note:  SDR exchange rate affects final US Dollar disbursement figure.



4
Table SA: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicator                               | Estimated      Actual
I. Indicators from SAR
Construction of pharmaceutical storage facilities                 9                3
Construction of maintenance workshops                             9                3
Extension of medical workshops                                    2                0
Construction of HMIs                                              3                3
Extension and rehabilitation of HMIs                              2                2
Nurses/midwives enrolled in HMIs (Dhamar. Ibb, Saadah)          270              260
II. Modified Indicatorst                                    No targets      Actual
set
Functional HMIs                                                                    3
Functional MCH emergency and blood banking unit at Al                      MCH
Sabeen Hospital                                                         functional;
Blood bank
operating at
minimum
capacity
Number of patients treated at MCH emergency and blood                         40/day
banking unit
Number of functional maintenance workshops and                                     6
pharmaceutical storage facilities
Improved availability of drugs at the regional level                   Achievement
negligible13
Reduced response time to maintenance requests                          Achievement
negligible14
Number of staff participating in management/accounting          595              627
training programs
12 Indicators modified in 1996.
13 Limited availability of drugs is a nation-wide problem which is being addressed under the ongoing
Family Health Project.
14 Management systems not in place to measure reduced response time to maintenance requests.



5
Table 5B: Summary of Training Activities
Estimated      Actual
1. Regional Management and Administration Training
General Administration                                         30              60
Personnel Administration                                       41              96
Accounting                                                     95
Computer                                                       39              50
Procurement and Supplies                                      51               60
Secretarial Support                                            38
Statistics                                                     32              65
Nutrition                                                      27             115
English Language                                              99
Public Relations                                              28
Arabic Typing                                                 49
English Typing                                                26
Bio-Medical Maintenance                                       40              136
Sub- Total                                                    600             S82
11. Hospital Management                                   Estimated      Actual
Training in Hospital Management                                60               0
Suh- Totacl                                                    60    _          0
111. Additional Training Provided                         Estimated      Actual
Blood Banking                                                 NA               25
Health Education                                              NA               20
Sub- Total                                                                     45
Grand Total                                                  660              627



6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations Centers
Key Operating Iidicator                     Estimated              Actual
Civil works completed                                     1994                  1998
Equipment installed                                       1996                  1998
Local training completed                                  1993                  1996
Curriculum Upgrading                                      1996                  1995
Studies completed                                         1996                  1994
Fellowships completed                                     1993                  1995
Midterm Review competed                                   1993                       |
Implementation workshops                          1993 and 1995
Accounts audited                            By June of each year   By June 31 each year
Annual progress report                                   Yearly               Yearly
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
| Stuidy               [ Purpose                   Staitus      I Impact of Study
Willingness to pay for   Assess public's         Completed      Provided a basis for
medical services       willingness to pay for                   development of cost
publicly provided services              sharing proposals



7
Table 8A: Project Investment Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (IJS$M)
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                4.1       5.1        9.8      4.4       5.8        10.2
B. Equipment, Fumiture and    0.3       3.1        3.4      0.7       6.5        7.2
Vehicles
C. Technical Assistance and   0.7       0.3        0.9      1.0       0.5        1.5
Project Management
Sub-Total                     5.1       9.0       14.1      6.1       12.8       18.9
Physical Contingencies       0.5        0.9        1.4
Price Contingencies          2.4        1.3       3.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          8.0        11.1      19.1      6.1       12.8      18.9
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign      Total
Source             Costs        Costs                     Costs        Costs
IDA                 3.9         11.1         15.0          5.9           9         14.9
Government          4.1          0.0          4.1          0.2          3.8        4.0
TOTAL               8.0         11.1         19.1          6.1         12.8        18.9
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(not calculated for this operation)



8
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section     Covenant  Status at   Original       Revised                     Description of                             Conmients
type      project   fulftillnent   fulfillmnent                 covenant
closing       date         date
1 5
Sec.4.01(a)       01         C        Continual    Continual  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be       Records and accouLits satisfactorily
maintained records and accounts adequate to retlect mainitainied
in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expcnditiures in respect of
thc Project of the departmieints or ageincies of the
Borro\%er respotisible tbr carrying out the Project or
any palt thcrcofl
Sec.4.0 I (bi)    01         CP       Aniually     Annually  'llie Borrower shall ha%e the records and accoulits   Final audit report to be submitted bh
iticludinlg those for the special account ibr each  May 31, 1 999
tiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
indepenidenit auditors acceptable to IDA.
Sch.4(2)          1()        C        Contitnual    Continual  For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision   1'MO maintained and appropriatcly
of thle execution of the project. the Borrower shall   statfed
maintaini the PMO established with MOI I with
organization. facilities, staffing and l'ORs
satisf:actorv to IDA.
Sch.4(3)          10         C                                T'he Borrower slall cause MOII to establish as a  Selection criteria complied ,ith
selection criteria tbr Bio-Mcdical Technician
trainiing the requirement that candidates have
successfully completed the Secondary Technical
School level.
Sch.4(4)          10         C        Annually     Annually   The Borrower shall by December 31 of each year or Limited resources and managementi
such later date as the Associationi may agree, ensure systems fur maintenance; operations
that aninual budgetary allocations agreed with IDA   and maintenance study underway to
and required for the maintenance of medical     quantify needs; launch of pilot
equipment and project facilities during the     maintenance strategy being
l'llowinig year are made.                       supported under Family Health
Project
Sch.4(6)          10         NC       1213 1/91               T'he Borrower shall cause MOH to fumish to IDA    Training program not furnished;
for its review anid comments, a training program for addressing management training
hospital management under Part C( I ) oi' the project. needs done on an ad-hoc basis
Tliereafter, the Borrower shall cause MOH to
implement such training program, taking into
account IDA's comments thereon.
Sch.4(7)          10        CD        06/30/93     04/30/98   The Borrower shall cause MOH to appoint not less  I1MIs appropriately staffed
than thirty instructors to the regional HMI schools
in Dhamar, Ibb and Sa'ada for training of nurses
and midwives.
Sch.4(7)       06/30/93      CP       06/30/93                The Borrower shall cause MOH to fuumish to IDA    Discussions on improved sector
the action plan under Part C(3) of the project.  management as a key element of the
Promptly upon completion of such plan, the      govemment's health sector reform
Borrower shall exchange views with IDA thereon.   strategy are continuing. TA and
Thereafler, the Borrower shall cause MOH to canry  hospital autonomy pilots (under the
out, on the basis of such exchange of views, the first Family Health Project) identified as
phase of a national action plan for strengthening  tools for improving hospital and
hospital and health management.                 sector management.
'5    C = covenant complied with; CD    complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not
complied with



9
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(No Operations Manual prepared for this project)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs*
(Staff Weeks and US$000)
Stage of Project Cycle                   Planned            Actual
Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                65.7    177.9
Appraisal                                               14.7     41.5
Negotiations through Board Approval                      3.8      11.9
Supervision                                             95.2    270.4
Completion                            9.0      21.6       1.5**    1.5**
TOTAL                                                  180.9    503.2
*    In view of COS-related changes made in the MIS system, "Planned" figures are not available for
the project cycle period.
**   As of April 1999



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating'6
No. of      Days       Specialized staff    Implemen-    Develop-                                               Types of problems
Stage of project cycle     staff''   in field           skills            tation          ment
represented's         status       objective
s
Preparation to appraisal  _
Jul/89 - Preparation      2          14      ES, 111S                  n/a           n/a
Oct/89 - Pre-appraisal     3          14     lIS, ES, PIIS               n/a           n/a
Appraisal        __
Feb/90-Appraisal J    2             1 7    r PIS  IST                  n/a     r     n/a       ____
Supervision missions
Apr/91       2         _         ES, A                       I             I        Waiting for parliamentary ratification for almost a year since the board approval.
Sep/91       3           3      ES, IS, HiS                  I             I        Planning has been inadequate for the soliware comnponents of the project.
__________________________     ___________   MOlI links with other ministries involvedI in the project are weak.
Nov/92        4          13      ES, IIRS, E, PIIS           2             2         Recruitment of 'I'A has been slow and the rate of disbursement is low. Procurement of furniture and
._______________________                                                                               equipment as well as implementation of management training have been delayed.
Jul/93      3           6       ES, IIRS, E                 2             2        Estimated cost of ongoing civil works contracts is about 17% higher than appraisal estimate (MCH and
blood banking facility by about 31%).
_Estimated cost of equipment and fumiture is 25% higher than the appraisal estimates.
Jan/95       3          7       PUS, IIRS, A                U             U         Most contractors have either stopped working. or are slowing down because of the rapid local inflation
rate. As the contract did not include a clause fir price escalation, the contractors are not willing to
__________________ .   .continue to work according to the original contract terms and payment schedules.
May/95        I           I      [IS                         U              S        Disbursements are very low.
Sep/95       2           6       [IS                        U              S        Disbursements arc very low.
Apr/96        I          I       IIS                        U              S        Contractor for the MCIH Emergency and Itlood flanking Llnit has threatened to stop working ifthe
Government does not release the counterpan iunds.
________ .___________                                                      Slow  implementation.
Jun/96       2          4       IIS                         S              S        Low disbursement.
Oct/96       2           3       IIS. A                     S              U        Continued delay in processing contractors requests lr payment.
May/97        1          3       HiS                         S              S        Bureaucratic procedures hinder relcasing of the fund. As a result, the contractors slow completion of
the civil works considerably while waiting for the MOPD to release the funds.
Feb/98       4           5      HS, A, HMS                  S              S        Insufficient funds available in Special Account to pay contracts below threshold.
May/98        2          10      HS, PS                      S              S        Implementation ofthe final stages ofthe project is hindered by (i) tumover in staffofthe I'MO; and (ii)
a new procedure whereby the MOF, in addition to the MOPI), had to clear all financial transactions.
Oct/98       2           6      HS, FMS                     S              S        Financial management practices are inadequate.
Two facilities are not yet functional due to contention about final pay ents.
_May/99        2          8       HS, IIRS                    S             U         Final assessment mission.
16    This is the rating given to the project by the evaluating officer.  It measures, among other things, completeness of performance and the likelihood that the
project will achieve its development objectives. The possible ratings are: I=problem free; 2=Moderate Problems; HS=highly satisfactory; S=satisfactory;
U=unsatisfactory; and HU=highly unsatisfactory.
17    Number of staff taking part in the mission.
t8    E=Engineer; ES=Education Specialist; FMS=Financial Management Specialist; HMS=Hospital Management Specialist; HRS=Human Resources Specialist;
HS=Health Specialist; IS=Implementation Specialist; PHS=Public Health Specialist; PS=Pharmaceutical Specialist;



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/IDA
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 2151-YEM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
MAY 8 TO 13,1999
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Introduction
An IDA mission visited the Republic of Yemen from May 8 to 13, 1999 to complete a final
assessment of the Health Sector Development Project, which closed on December 31, 1998. The
mission was composed of Ms. Gail Richardson (Health Specialist). Mr. Yasser El-Gammal
(Human Resources Specialist) and Mr. Qaiser Khan (Senior Human Resources Economist) also
participated in the mission's discussions.
The mission worked in close collaboration with representatives from the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) and discussed the findings of the independent review of the project with the assessment
team. This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) summarizes the main findings of the mission
and was discussed during a wrap-up meeting chaired by H.E. the Minister of Health. A draft of
the MOU was also left for review by the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD). The
cooperation and hospitality extended to the mission by the representatives of the MOPH, in
particular by the staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), was greatly appreciated.
Mission Objectives
The objectives of the mission were to assess: (i) the degree of achievement of the project's
objectives; (ii) the project's outcome; (iii) prospects for future sustainability; and (iv) the
performance of the Bank and the Government during preparation and implementation of the
project. The findings of the mission were used as a basis for preparation of the project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), a draft of which was submitted to the Government for
review. The final version of the ICR will incorporate the Government's assessment of the project.
There was general agreement reached on the findings of the mission, which are based on
discussions with MOPH staff and the findings of the recently completed independent project
assessment. These findings are summarized below.



Memorandum of Understanding                                           Page 2 of 5
Yemen Health Sector Development Project
Principal Findings of the Mission
Project Costs/Expenditures. The project financing plan included an IDA credit of US$15.0 million
and a Government contribution of US$4.1 million. The IDA credit was fully disbursed (a nominal
amount remains in the Special Account).' The project was completed within seven years and five
months.
Objectives. The objectives of the project were to (a) increase the effectiveness of existing health
services; and (b) develop regional support services to facilitate the extension of health services to
underserved areas. These objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of three
components: (i) strengthening, at the regional level, administrative capabilities, medical equipment
maintenance, and supplies management; (ii) human resources development; and (iii) developing
health care management.
Inputs. The original project provided for:
 Construction and equipping of: (i) 9 maintenance workshops and 9 pharmaceutical storage
facilities; (ii) 3 regional health manpower institutes (HMIs); and (iv) a maternal and child
health (MCH) emergency unit and central blood bank.
* Extension. rehabilitation and equipping of: (i) two existing maintenance workshops; and
(ii) two existing HMIs.
* Training of: (i) 600 MOPH staff in administration and management; and (ii) 60 hospital
managers in hospital management.
  Technical assistance for (i) upgrading HMI curricula; and (ii) developing a hospital
management program.
* Provision of: training and office materials, spare parts, and school buses.
* Support for project management.
Modifications to the Project Design
Input&s The following adjustments were introduced during project implementation:
*  Civil Works. The scope of the civil works inputs were reduced because of rapid inflation:
the number of maintenance workshops and pharmaceutical storage facilities to be
constructed was reduced from 9 to 3 and the extension of an additional 2 additional
workshops were dropped.
*  Equipment, Materials, and Vehicles. Adjustments were made to the procurement of
equipment to accommodate the changes in the civil works program. In addition, Credit
resources were used to finance 20 malaria vehicles and supplies in response to a malaria
epidemic and basic medical equipment and ambulances were procured through UNICEF
for distribution to health facilities based on specified need.
*  Training. The subjects and number of trainees were modified to reflect priorities and
fellowships in hospital management (2 man-months), specialized medical training (1.5
The Disbursement Department is currently finalizing the project accounts.



Memorandum of Understanding                                         Page 3 of 5
Yemen Health Sector Development Project
man-months), procurement (1.5 man-months), project management (1 man-month), and
financial planning (0.5 man-months) provided.
* Technical Assistance. The TA to strengthen hospital management was never completed.
Project Evaluation
Objectives
Overall. One can argue that the project objectives were so lofty and vague that they could never
be achieved through the given set of project interventions. Indeed, given the limited scope of the
project inputs, the objectives of the project should have been much more narrowly defined and
quantified. It is possible that the delivery of services will be improved in those areas which were
targeted under the project, but the project did not result in any systemic improvement in the
delivery of services for the country as a whole. And hence, given the limited scope of the project
interventions, the project's impact on the sector is expected to be negligible. A more detailed
assessment of the achievement of each of the two project objectives follows.
Improving the effectiveness of existing health services
*  The 5 HMIs constructed/rehabilitated/extended are staffed and operational. A total of about
500 additional students per year are being trained in HMIs as a direct result of the project
inputs. The blood bank and the MCH emergency unit are operational (about 40 patients a day
are see at the MCH unit).2  Basic medical equipment and ambulances were procured for
distribution to health facilities based on specified need.
*  However, it is too early to assess the extent to which this objective has been achieved because
the HMIs only started operating in 1997/1998 and the blood bank and MCH emergency unit
only in 1998. Nonetheless, the impact of the project is expected to be hindered by: (i)
employment difficulties that female graduates, in particular, of the HMIs are facing; (ii)
although all planned for equipment for the MCH emergency and blood bank were unit were
provided, it has now been determined that additional equipment is needed to make them fully
functional; and (iii) there is no mechanism for tracking and measuring the impact of the
medical equipment and ambulances procured. Finally, the technical assistance for improved
hospital management were never provided and the hospital management training program at
the teaching hospital never developed, although 2 man-months of fellowships in hospital
management for 3 hospital managers and 1.5 man-months of fellowship in specialized medical
training were provided.
Extension of health services to underserved areas
* Pharmaceutical storage facilities and maintenance workshops were constructed and are
functional, and training provided. In addition, training was provided to MOH staff in such
areas as administration, manpower development, statistics, and health education.
2     A team from the Swiss Red Cross (under a grant secured by IDA) are providing the MOPH with guidance
on the role and management of this central blood bank.



Memorandum of Understanding                                           Page 4 of 5
Yemen Health Sector Development Project
* However, the achievement of this objective was limited: (i) not all of the originally planned
medical storage facilities and maintenance workshops were built under the project (3 of each
out of the planned 9), therefore the extension of support services for the country as a whole
was limited; (ii) because of poor construction and maintenance and additional equipment
needs, most of the storage facilities and workshops constructed are not operating at capacity;
and (iii) although the training courses were provided, its impact was not assessed.
Major Factors Which Affected the Project
* Lag between project design and implementation
* Unification
Gulf and Civil War
* Inflation
* Bureaucracy
* Low morale among the civil servants
Key Lessons Learned
-  Objectives/components. The objectives of the project were too vague and lofty and not
consistent with the project's activities - the objectives could not have been achieved through
the implementation of the project components.
e  Integration with national strategy. The impact of inputs which are focussed at the regional
level (e.g., the pharmaceutical stores) will be greater if the national programs are in place to
provide support to these peripheral units.
*  Female health workers. Although this project succeeded in increasing the availability of
training for women, and hence the total number of female health staff available, that these
recent graduates are not able to find employment with the public sector suggests the need to
ensure that project inputs are linked with macroeconomic realities.
*  Project management. Having the right staff in charge of project management and ensuring
that the PIU is integrated with the MOPH operations are key for effective implementation. In
addition, the day to day bureaucratic procedures in Yemen hinder implementation.
.  Monitoring and evaluation. Effective monitoring strategies need to be defined during the
preparation of a project and systems put in place for evaluation prior to project
implementation.
Government and Bank Performance
Governmenti'sperformance. Guidelines were followed, regular progress reports were submitted,
and most agreed upon deadlines were met. Most of the initial PIU staff also had prior experience
in IDA operations. The key weakness with the Government's performance was the lack of
attention to project monitoring and evaluation. In addition, records management and attention to
detail could have been improved. On a more macro perspective, the Government could have been



Memorandum of Understanding                                           Page 5 of 5
Yemen Health Sector Development Project
more reactive in streamlining the bureaucratic procedures it imposed on project management
practices.
Bank's performance. In hindsight, the project designed appears to be disjointed and lacking a
strategic framework. It is not clear how the project interventions could have ever achieved the
lofty objectives of the project or how they linked together to form a coherent approach to address
the prevailing sectoral issues. In addition, more extensive preparation by the team and the
Government counterparts could have avoided having to complete preparatory activities after the
project was effective (e.g., equipment lists, final architectural plans, TA tender documents).
During implementation, the Bank should have worked to resolve more quickly cross sectoral
issues in particular, such as the contract issue due to the lack of price escalation clauses. The
Bank is also at fault for not completing a'mid-term review of the project. On a positive note, the
Bank: (i) was flexible to enable credit funds to be used to address key priorities (e.g., the
procurement of malaria equipment after the epidemic); (ii) responded promptly to requests and
correspondence from the Borrower; (iii) ensured a smooth transition from one task manager to
another and continuity in mission members; (iii) launched supervision missions on a regular basis
and providing support from the Resident Mission as needed; and (iv) authorizing extensions of the
project period to ensure that project activities were completed.
Sustainability
The key issues with respect to sustainability are: maintenance of equipment and infrastructure;
making effective use of the regional support services (e.g., the maintenance workshops and
pharmaceutical stores); and provision of sufficient funds for recurrent expenditures. At this point,
the sustainability of the project is questionable.
Next Steps
The Government's comments to the draft ICR and the Borrower's contribution to the ICR are to
be submitted by May 31, 1999.
GR/MH
June 25, 1999
P:\YEMEN\HD\5822\SPN\SPNFY99\MOU MAY99.DOC



