Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFaICIAL USE ONLY
Repr No.. 8482-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 7, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipents only In the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Blak authorization.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
IEALTH SECTUR DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
(As of March 1990)
Currency Unit  -     Yemeni Rials
US$ 1.00   -     YRLS 12
YRLS 1.00   -     USS  0.083
SDR 1.00   -     US$  1.29 (April 25, 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BMT      - Bio-Medical Technician
CPO      - Central Planning Organization
FP       - Family Planning
HMI      - Health Manpower Institute
LCCD     - Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MCH      - Maternal and Child Health
MOH      - Ministry of Health
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
MOPW     - Ministry of Public Works
PHC      - Primary Health Care
PMO      - Project Management Office
PPM      - Planned Preventive Maintenance
UNICEF   - United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA    - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
WFP      - World Food Program
WHO      - World Health Organization
YAR      - Yemen Arab Republic
YFPA     - Yemen Family Planning Association



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
BASIC DATA SHEET   .   . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM.A.RY                  .v. ........        .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  V
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND ........................
A.  INTRODUCTION  .1...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    I .  . .
B. HEALTH POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES . . . . . . . . .                                             1 . . . . . . .
C. POPULATION POLICIES   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  2
D. SECTORAL ORGANIZATION   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  3
E. HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING   ...  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
F. HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES  ....  .                .  .  .                .                        5
G. EXPERIENCE WITH PAST LENDING, LESSONS LEARNED AND IDA'S ROLE  .                              7
H. OTHER EXTERIIAL ASSISTANCE TO THE HEALTH SECTOR .  . . . . . . .   8
II. THE PROJECT    ......................... .                                                      9
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            9
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
C. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS  ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .     .    12
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
A.  COST OF THE PROJECT   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    12
B. PROJECT FINANCING   ....   .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .    14
IV. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   ...  .                  .  .     . ....  .    .  .  .  .  .     .    15
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    15
B. PROCUREMENT   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    16
C. DISBURSEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................    19
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
This report is based an the findings of an appraisal mission that visited the Yemen Arab Republic in
February 1990. comprising Salim Habayeb (Mission Leader and Public Health Specialist) and Robert Taylor
(Hospital Administration Consultant). Harry Go (Senior Architect) and Guy Ellena (Health Economist)
participated in the pro-appraisal mission in November 1989. Bastiaan Reemelawaal (WHO Technical Officer.
Bio-Medical Equipment Maintenance) participated in the field. and Sverrir Sigurdsson (Senior Architect) and
Christine Kappax assisted at Headquarters. Iufida O'Connor, Stephanie Soutouras and Brett Crawford
assisted in the preparation of the report and its annexes.
This document has a restricted distribution attd may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



YEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVEUPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.   Health and Nutritional Status Technical Notes
2.   Organizational Chart for the Minis..ry of Health
3.   Organizational Chart for the Primary Health Care Network
4.   Physical Resources
5.   Distribution of Physical Resources by Governorate
6.   Human Resources
7.   Health Manpower Institute Output and Enrollment
8.  External Assistance
Details of Current Major External Assistance
Matrix of External Assistance
9.  Health Expenditures
Table 1. Current Expenditures, 1983-89
Table 2. Capital Expendituras, 1983-87
Table 3. Distribution of Capital Investment in Third Five Year Plan,
1987-1991
Table 4. Health Services Investment in Third Five Year Plan, 1987-
1991
Table 5. Flow of Recurrent Expenditures
Table 6. Estimated Incremental Recurrent Expenditures Generated by
the Proposed Project
10.   Program Components Matrix
11.   Evaluation Indicators
12.   Training and Technical Assistance Program
13. Implementation Schedules -
14.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
15.   Selected Documents Available



- iii -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DAT SHEET
A. General Countr= Data                                          Ya       ,ource
Area (1000's sq. Km.)                      195.0              1988        1
Agricultural (X of total)                   42.8              1988        1
GNP Per Capita (US$)                       580.0              1988        1
B. Population. Vital Statistics and Family Planning
Population Estimate (millions)               9.0              1989        4
Population Projections, year 1995           11.0           1989-90        4
year 2000          13.1
year 2005          15.7
year 2010          18.6
Rural population                             87X              1987        3
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                53.9           1989-90        4
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                19.1           1989-90        4
Annual Rate of Population Growth
1985-90                  3.5X           1989-90        4
1990-95 (projected)      3.7X
1995-2000                3.62
Total Fertility Rate                         8.0           1989-90        4
Contraceptive Prevalence (MWRA)
Modern Methods                           3.0X              1989        6
C.  Health. Nutritioai and Welfare
Access to Health Services (X)
Total/Urban/Rural                       30/75/24        1980-87        5
Total                                      40           1990-91        3
Rural access to safe drinking water           21X          1980-87        5
Life Expectancy at Birth                      46              1986        2
Infant Mortality Rate                         130          1989-90        4
Maternal Mortality Rate per 100,000         1,000             1987        3
Births attended by trained                    12%             1984        2
health personnel
Infants with low birth-weight                 91           1982-87        5
X of mothers breast-feeding:  3 months        80           1980-86        5
6 months       76
Prevalence of wasting       (12-23 months)    17           1980-87        5
X of age group
Oral Rehydration Salts (ORS) per 100          25              1986        5
episodes of diarrhea (liters)



- iv -
YEMEN ARAM REPUBLIC
HEALH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA SHERT (Cont'd)
C. Health, Nutrition and Welfare (Cont'd)                      xar    Source
Daily per capita calorie supply as X       93               1985         5
of requirements
Ilmunization Coverage
children under 1 yr  BCG               41X               1988         5
DPT III           29X
Polio III         29X
Measles           281
Tetanus Toxoid 1 dose/2 doses
Pregnant women                        61 / 31
Non-pregnant women                    21 / 1X
All                                   31 / 11
X of age group enrolled in primary
education: male/female                 112/22            1985        2
Adult literacy rate male/female        27/3              1985         2
D. Resoures
Population per physician                  7,500             1989         6
Population per nursing person             2,700
Population per hospital bed               2,000
E. Hea,lthAsolitures
Total expenditure on health as X of GDP   4.1               1988         6
KOH budget as X of total Govt. budget     4.2                1987        6
Health expenditures per person (US$ eq.)  21.0               1989        6
SIB=: (1) Social Indicators of Developnt, 1988;
(2) World Development Rpotrt, 1988;
(3) lNistry of Ieblth;
(4) EA Populat4on ProJections 1089-1990;
(5) Tw State of Mh World's Children, 989, UTICEF;
(6) Hission Rat4mte,.



-V
YEMEN RAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARX
Borrower:      Government of the Yemen Arab Republic
BenefieL   :   Ministry of Health
Amount:        US$15.0 million
Terms:         Standard IDA with 40 years' maturity
D xscriDtion:   In order to facilitate the Governrent's efforts to improve
health services and to expand hea'lth care coverage, the
proposed project would strengthen the administrative, human
resources, and support services base at the regional level
through:
(a) the development of regional administrative capabilities,
maintenance of medical equipment, and supplies management,
including staff training and retraining involving 600 people in
all regions; the construction of nine maintenance workshops for
bio-medical equipment; nine pharmaceutical storage facilities;
and the provision of equipment, materials and furniture;
(b) health manpower development including the construction of
three regional institutes with dormitories for nursing and
midwifery training. The Central Health Manpower Institute
would be expanded through the addition of classrooms and three
laboratories for environmental health, midwifery, and
pharmaceutical sciences. The resulting increase in national
training capabilities for nursing is estimated to be 30
percent. The project would finance the provision of training
materials and equipment, and would assist in financing
curriculum upgrading for nursing and medical technicians; and
(c) the development of a program to strengthen health care
management and hospital administration as an initial phase for
strengthening the skills and capabilities of a nucleus of
managers within YARs health system through consultant services
and training.
Benefits:      The project would accomplish the following:
(a) by improving sectoral services and the operational
standards of the existing system nationwide, the project would
raise the standard of health care and ultimately contribute to
improving the health status and quality of life of underserved
communities; (b) the project would create the capabilities to
sustain further development and improvement of health services
through the 1990's. Moreover, by providing support to the
primary health care network, the project would contribute to a
more efficient use of resources and to restraining the



- Vi -
progressively escalating demands for the more expensive levels
of health care; and (c) the project, in its human resources
development aspects, would promote professional opportunities
in the health sector for women.
zi8k8h:        Possible risks are related primarily to limited management
capacities at all levels and to difficult communications with
the remote governorates, which set limits on the pace of
project implementation. The administrative strengthening
supported by the project, its focus on strengthening the
Governorate Health Directorates to act as regional project
implementation agents, the experience acquired by the Ministry
of Health through the first project, and the assistance of the
Ministry of Public Works, should help to mitnlmize these risks.
Estimated Cgst:                            Loocal    Foreign     Total
----- (US$ million)-------
Administration, Maintenance                 2.5         4.3        6.8
and Supplies Management
Health Manpower Development                 1.8         2.8       4.6
Health Care Management Development          0.8         1.9        2.7
Base Cost                            5.1          9.0      14.1
Physical Contingencies               0.5          0.9       1.4
Price Contingencies                  2.4          1.2       3.6
Total Project Cost                               11.        .1
Financing Plan:
IDA                                  3.9          11.1     15.0
Government                           4.1           0.0      4.1
Total                          8.0         11.l
Estimated Disbursements:                                  IDA FY
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
-------------- (US$ million) -----------
Annual                       0.6  2.6   5.2    4.8   1.3   0.4   0.1
Cumulative                   0.6  3.2   8.4   13.2  14.5  14.9  15.0
Economic Rate of Return:             Not applicable



YE       B REPUBLI
HEALTH SECTOR D UVEWPNENT PROJECT
START APPJATSAL REPORT
I. S C    AKRIR
A. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Awareness and national concern for health development have
increasingly paralleled the rapid transformation of the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR) from past medieval conditions to an open market economy. Since 1982,
the Government has strived to increase health care coverage and equity of the
haolth system. It adopted the Primary Health Care concept as a means of
bringing basic health services to the rural areas where 87 percent of the
population resides.
1.02     Administratively, YAR is divided into 11 governorates (mouhafazas)
which are further subdividee into 40 sub-governorates (qadas) which include
168 districts (nahiyats). The country pursues a democratic orientation
whereby Congress and Local Councils participate in government policy-making
and development plans. The Local Councils are elected through popular vote
every three years and were united in 1985 into a Confederation of Local
Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD). Tribal affiliations continue to
he socially, culturally and politically significant.
1.03     Health and nutritional status indicators depict serious problems that
call for increased intervention in a country where 60 percent of the people do
not have access to basic health care. Notes about the morbidity affecting the
Yemeni communities are presented in Annex 1. In spite of laudable
improvements since the end of the Imamate era, YAR's health status remains
poor. To overcome developmental challenges, multiple constraints need to be
addressed. These include limitations in institutional and administrative
capacities, undeveloped human and natural resources, and the burden of high
illiteracy.
B. HEALTH POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES
1.04     There is a strong political commitment to Primary Health Care (PHC),
which is stated as the basic strategic approach to pursue the social goal of
"Health for All by the Year 2000". Article 33 of the constitution states that
health care is .' fundamental right of every citizen in the country. To
support and underline its commitment to Primary Health Care, the Government
allocated the highest share of the health investment budget ia the current
Five-Year Plan to basic health care and preventive programs, amounting to 40
percent of the Ministry of Health (NOH) investment plan.
1.05     The current Third Five-Year Plan 1987-1991, has targeted 50 percent
of the population to have access to health care facilities located within one-
hour walking distance. At the beginning of the Plan, the rate was estimated
at 30 percent. An additional 20 percent increase is planned for each of the
periods 1992-1996 and 1997-2001 in order to attain a total access rate of 70
and 90 percent respectively, as shown in Table 1.01 on Page 2.



- 2 -
Zable 1.01:  Access Tg 8asic Health Care
xa"            Actual       Targgt
1980           15X            -
1986           30X            -
1989           38X
1987-1991 Plan                  501
1992-1996 Plan                  701
1997-2001 Plan                  90X
1.06     However, the 50 percent coverage target of the Five-Year Plan cannot
be achieved for reasons explained in paras. 1.26 and 1.27.  Currently, KOH is
pursuing a policy to develop decentralized administration in the governorates
and to integrate vertical programs into PHC. Efforts for extending PHC
services and related miational campaigns are directed at disadvantaged
communities and vulnerable groups, particularly women and children. To this
end, the mobilization of local communities' resources is proceeding
successfully (para. 1.16).
C. POPULATION POLICIES
1.07     Tne Government supports maternal & child health programs, family
planning training and services, and public information. Breast-feeding is
actively promoted. The Governmert is striving to raise educational levels and
to encourage female participation in the workforce. These measures have an
impact on individusal and aggregate levels of fertility and contribute to
raising a demand for fertility reduction. Direct policies with quantitative
demographie targets for population growth rates are deemed unacceptable.
1.08     The high total fertility rate is estimated at eight childr-k per
woman on average; the infant mortality rate is rapidly declining, and the
population is growing at an estimated rate of 3.4 perCent per annum. Surveys
have found that most women expressed a preference for five children, which is
below the present level of fertility. In view of the low coverage of the
health care delivery network and related information base, the potenmial for
contraception prevalence to increase exists if modern contraceptives, reliable
supplies, information and services are made available.
1.09     The Government does permit duty-free importation of contraceptives
for private sector practitioners, pharmacies, and NGO's. Modern contraceptive
methods are considered by the local authorities to have beneficial health
effects.  In those  OH facilities that have the necessary trained staff,
supplies, or adequate surgical capabilities, family planning services (FP) are
offered. Although PP services are available in most urban centers for those
who seek them, they are limited in rural areas i.e. few services are available
where the majority of the population resides. There are two main reasons for
these limitations: the weakness of the peripheral system and the lack of
trained female health personnel, which is aggravated by the difficulty in
finding t.ained women who will serve in communities other than their own.



1.10     The Population Center of the Central Planning Organization (GPO) ts
responsible for incorporating demographic variables into development planning.
In population-related activities, the Government is assisted by international
organizations (Annex 8).
D. fSlCTORAL ORGBI&IZATION
1.11     Senior authority in the health sector is vested in the Minister of
Health who is assisted by one Under Secretary. Directly attached to the Under
Secretary's office are four "Directorates General" which are responsible for
Health and Medical Services, Health Administration, Pharmacy and Medical
Supplies, and Financial Administration. In the regions, each of the 11
governorates has a Health Directorate which reports to the Under Secretary
(Annex 2). Physical and human resources of the public health sector are
presented in Annexes 4, 5 and 6, and related sectoral issues are discussed in
paras. 1.24-1.27. The private sector is mostly constituted of public sector
practitioners who are entitled to conduct private practice after hours.
1.12     The primary health care network is comprised of three levels
(Annex 3). At the first level are Primary Health Care Units (PHCU) which are
village-based posts serving 500 to 2,500 people. These units extend their
services to isolated rural inhabitants and are intended to be the entry point
for the population into the health care system. PHCU's are staffed by two
Primary Health Care workers and one Local Birth Attendant who are recruited
from and trained in the locality. The next level is constituted by Health
Sub-Centers, located in the bigger villages, and staffed by nurses and
assistant nurses. Each Sub.-Center targets 5,000 to 15,000 people rnd is
expected to supervise three PHCU's. Sub-Centers are supervised by Health
centers which offer more advanced services than those offered at the lover
levels. The centers are staffed by two physicians assisted by ten nurses and
technicians, and cover up to 50,000 people. They each contain 20 beds, a
laboratory, and an X-ray section. Each center is expected to supervise three
Sub-Centers. With this system, each referral network comprises fifteen
PHCU's, three Sub-Centers, and one Health Center.
E. HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING
1.13     In 1988, estimated total public and private health expenditures
amounted to about YR2,375 million, equivalent to 4.1 percent of the GDP,
leading to an annual per capita health expenditure of YR250 or US$21. About
30 percent of YAR health expenditures are from public resources, 47 percent
from private resources, and the remainder from external assistance.
Comparable figures for western industrial market economies range from 7.5 to
11 percent of GDP, and per capita health expenditures of US$900 in the United
Kingdom and US$2,500 in the USA.
1.14     Recurrent health exRenditures constituted 94 percent of total
expenditures in 1988. Annex 9 provides details on the sources and recipients
of these expenditures. It appears that in the absence of health insurance
systems, out-of-pocket payments by households 'private resources) are the
first source of financing for recurrent expenditures in the health system,



- 4 -
accounting for 46.6 percent. These resources flow essentially (98.2 percent)
to private recipients, and drug purchasing through private outlets constitute
71 percent of these expenditures. The YAR receives significant external
assistance (24 percent) to finance its recurrent health expenditures, mainly
through hospital operation support. Finally, the public contribution (MOR
budget and other governmental financing to some hospitals) provides less than
30 percent of actual recurrent expenditures. However, the share of public
current health expenditures in the Government operating budget has grown
steadily from 2.8 percent in 1983 to 4.2 percent in 1988 and is planned to
reach 4.5 percent in 1989 (see Annex 9, Table 1). About YRI8.5 million or 3.3
percent of total MOH current expenditures were recovered by the Ministry of
Finance through user fees in 1988.
1.15     Within the Government budget, the share of capital health
expeditures has been declining from 8.5 percent in 1983 to 2.6 percent in
1987. On one hand, the macroeconomic situation deteriorated and contributed
to this decline. On the other hand, significant mobilization of community
resources (para. 1.16) accompanied the sound shift to primary health care and
substituted the share of central government resources. It is estimated that
the participation of local communities through the Local Councils would
aggregate at about YR120 million, equivalent to 30 percent of the basic health
care allocations, or about 10 percent of the total five-year health investment
plan of YR1,037 million. Primary Health Care received the highest share of
capital budgetary allocations (para. 1.04).
Resource Nobilization PoliciMs
1.16     Community resources have been successfully mobilized for the PHC
program through the Lgcal Councils for Cooperative Development. In the past,
the contributions of LCCDs were made mainly on an ad hoc basis. For the past
several years, following the unification of the local councils into the LCCD
Confederation, the forms and processes of local contributions have become
well-defined and institutionalized as official policy, which includes the
following elements:
- providing PHC workers with salary supplements equal to 50 percent
of their basic salaries as incentives to enhance staff retention
and performance,
- providing free construction sites for health facilities;
- financing 50 percent of the construction cosrs;
- contributing to the campaigns of the Expanded Program of
Immunization (EPI) according to national and local plans,
including provision of vehicles;
- contributing to environmental health activities and the provision
of safe water supply;
- developing formal participation in the PHC units administration,
supervision and maintenance;
- assisting in village cleaning campaigns, water sources protection,
and building of private and public latrines;
- providing free housing for PHC trainees;
- financing 50 percent of trainees' bonuses.



- 5 -
1.17     Usex Feeg.  The health system has instituted cost-sharing measures
affecting patterns of use. User charges are meant to make the user
responsible for sharing a modest proportion of the expense of health service
benefits and to reduce demand for the more discretionary types of care. Fees
vary amonp governorates and communities served, and according to the type of
facility.  In ambulatory settings, the fees range from YR2 to YR10, of which
YR1 is donated to the Red Crescent Association. Hospital inpatient fees cost
between YR5 and YR50 per patient stay. Higher user fees ranging from YR100 to
YR400 were tested in the past but were reduced by the Government due to
negative socio-political reactions, and to protect poor segments of the
population. Students and military personnel are exempt. Hospital directors
have the authority to exempt patients considered to be in financial hardship
and unofficial estimates indicate that about 25 percent are exempted.
F. HEALTH SECTOR ISSUES
Administrative. institutional, and systemic constraints
1.18     As an institution, MOH should be considered as still in its early
stages. A nucleus of well-trained staff emerged at the central level during
the 1980s. The capacity for planning, managing, and assessing national
programs has improved. The central team shoulders the heaviest responsibility
in both the sectoral and regional decision-making process.
1.19     In contrast, regional capabilities remain weak.  Administrative and
systemic constraints are intricately linked, and constitute a major problem
now confronting the d relopment of the health sector.  The rapid growth of
health services during the past ten years has outstripped the modest
administrative network, sectoral systems, and support services in the regions.
In most governorates, weaknesses are found throughout the regional
institutions and human resources base. About 10 percent of the peripheral
health care facilities are non-operational due to the lack of operational,
staffing, and management capabilities. Consequently, the weak peripheral
system is often bypassed and patients inundate the hospitals.
Inadequacies in materials management
1.20     Problems of supplies and logistics affect most of the peripheral
health care delivery network. The central issue is related to physical
hardware deficiencies and the lack of storage facilities. Regional medical
stores are located in rudimentary rooms frequently in a state of disrepair.
The capacity to preserve perishable supplies is acutely limited. There are no
cold rooms, instead household-type refrigerators are used. Rain from leaking
roofs, dust, and rodents ruin and contaminate sterile supplies, dressings,
sutures, reagents, medicines, and miscellaneous general and medical items.
The lack of flexible local budgets results in limited regional alternative
solutions. Consequently, health care facilities often lack critical supplies
and medicines. Reliable supplies and intact medical items must be made
availab'le to maximize the effectiveness and quality of health care and related
programs.



- 6 -
1.21     Human resources in the field of materials and medical Fupplies
management, well-developed at the central level, now need to be expanded in
the regions. Additional resources and inservice training in specification
preparation, ordering, budgeting, storage, and distribution methods are
required. Projection of future consumption needs, monitoring of expiration
dates, and pert nnel accountability, need to be strengthened.
Matntenance and repair of medical eauinment
1.22     MOH has a workshop located in Sana'a, which serves as the center for
maintenance and repair services for all MOH hospitals and health centers
throughout the country. With the assistance of the World Health Organization,
a 2-year Bio-Medical Technician (BMT) training program was started in 1987
within the Health Manpower Institute (HMI), and a part of this central
workshop has been converted into a training section. The workshop and its
training program constitute an excellent nucleus for future extension plans.
A sub-workshop has also been established in Hodeidah with IDA's assistance.
1.23     In other regions, the deficiencies in maintenance of medical
equipment are acute because the available structures and skills are scanty.
Thus, the establishment of workshop facilities in the different governorates
is a first priority. Private sector servicing is available only for large
contracts involving specific medical units used in radiology and intensive
care.  Obsolescent stocks are cc mon.  Often it is easier to order new
equipment than to obtain maintenance on spare parts for existing items.
Medical equipment in YAR comes from all over the world and the personnel is
often unfamiliar with the various types of equipment which are inadvertently
misused. There are no preventive maintenance programs, but the central
workshop has started organizing seminars on the subject. The central workshop
needs assistance to develop Planned Preventive Maintenance (PPM), which would
include plans for scheduled visits to medical units. By checking and
calibrating instruments, at least 50 percent of potential operational problems
are corrected before they become repair problems. When equipment is not
operational, staff are unable to work effectively and health services and
programs are disrupted. The development of well-equipped regional maintenance
workshops with adequate numbers of bio-medical technicians is vital for the
efficiency, effectiveness, and expansion of health services. In addition to
the establishment of regional workshops, the long-term goal of the Government
is to staff all hospitals with these technicians, who will then be responsible
for preventive maintenance and repair of medical equipment.
Low level of services and sectoral resources
1.24     The low level of sectoral services contributes to unsatisfactory
health, nutrition, and population indicators. The hospital bed/population
ratio is 0.5 bed per 1,000 population in YAR. In contrast, the number of beds
per 1,000 varies between 5 and 11 in industrial market economies. Physical
sectoral resources (Annexes 4 and 5) include 39 hospitals with 4,703 beds and
70 health centers with 1,342 beds. The number of MOH personnel totals 7,204,
of whom 1,810 or 25 percent, are expatriates (Annex 6). The ratio of
population per practicing physician is 7,500 in YAR. The average ratio is
8,000 in lower middle-income economies, 5,000 in middle-income economies, and



530 in industrial market economies. The population per nursing person is
2,700, which needs to be reduced. The development of trained Yemeni personnel
is crucial to YAR's health sector, which relies heavily on expatriates. Sixty
percent of the qualified nurses, 50 percent of miAives, and 30 percent of
physicians and dentists are expatriates.
1.25     Only 12 percent of all births are attended by trained health
personnel. This contributes to the elevated rates of obstetric deaths and to
the high maternal mortality rate of at least 1,000 per 100,000 births. Only
three percent of pregnant women have adequate tetanus toxoid coverage. The
low level of service inputs contributes to low contraceptive prevalence by
modern methods, currently estimated at less than three percent nationwide.
Similarly, despite national campaigns with mobile teams, the immunization
coverage of children under one year is low (BCG 41X, DPT III 291, Polio III
291, Measles 281). This cortributes to high infant mortality rates exceeding
100 per 1,000 live births. Sustainable coverage cannot be expected until the
primary health care network is developed, staffed and operated properly.
1.26     Insumagafy, progress in the extension of primary health care has been
hampered by the acute deficiencies in trained health personnel, poor logistics
for supplies and support services, and limited administrative and supervisory
capacities. It is expected that only 40 percent of the population would
attain accessibility to basic health care at the end of the current Five-Year
Plan in 1991, in contrast with the 50 percent targeted.
Conclusion
1.27     Further stre.gthening of health services and enhancement of equity by
broadening access to health care for the remaining 60 percent of the
population who remain underserved cannot develop in a vacuum. What is needed
now, in addition to trained human resources, is a critical mass of
administrative, supervisory and support service capabilities to strengthen the
operations of the regional sectoral network through a broad non-marginal
approach and to facilitate the expansion and sustainability of health services
and sectoral investments. Strengthening regional roles would enhance the
participation of Local Councils so that they support even further health
service development from community resources, rather than exclusively from the
central Government budget.
G. EXPERIENCE WITH PAST LENDING. LESSONS LEARNED AND IDA'S ROLE
1.28     IDA's past lending to the health sector consisted of one credit of
US$10.5 million in 1983. This involved strengthening key central
administrative and planning units of KOH as well as supporting the Health
Manpower Institute. The Yemeni team involvement in project preparation was
minimal. Thus, the project was relatively isolated from MOH, and, during the
difficult initial phases of implementation, commitment was weak and the
project's management was not adequately monitored by the Government.
Cooperation between MOH and the Central Planning Organization was not ample
during the initial project phase. Expatriate advisors were underutilized.
The organizational reporting relationship and project responsibility shifted
among departments and project directorship changed four times. Consequently,



- 8 -
the intended three-year implementation period for the project soon proved
unrealistic, and its closing date had to be extended three times prior to
project completion on June 30, 1989.
1.29     In addition to health manpower, the project developed six key areas
'n KOH: planning and statistics, finance and administration, logistics and
supplies management, evaluation and research, health education, and nutrition.
New units related to these fieldz were created and integrated into MOH, except
for the evaluation and research unit which was absorbed by the University of
Sana'a. The long-term fellowship program led 48 out of 49 candidates to
complete their courses and receive their degrees. The graduates, except one,
were retained by the Ministry. The short term study tours were less
successful due to problems related to candidate selection, expectations, and
lack of preparation prior to departure and during study in the host countries.
1.30     Important lessons learned during the course of IDA's support for the
health sector in YAR include: a) the necessity of avoiding complex and
overambitious project designs in a cotntry with limited institutions; (b) the
necessity of broad based local participation of sector officials in project
preparation and implementation; (c) the advantages of locating the project
implementation unit within the sectoral ministry; d) the limited benefit of
long-term consultant advisors without local counterparts; and (e) the extended
time required to introduce innovations in the system and the need for phasing
institutional development components.
1.31     The project is consistent with IDA's lending strategy for YAR, and
indeed illustrates the need for sustained IDA assistance to the country. It
would support the Government's assignment of top priority to institutional and
human resources development in the health sector. The support of many other
donors involved in the sector is relatively narrow. IDA's involvement can
provide a broader and more comprehensive. sectoral approach which raises the
return to, and reinforces the sustainability of sectoral investments, while
enhancing regional and local administrative roles and efforts. IDA's
assistance provided under the first project now needs to be extended and
expanded for the continued development of the health sector. The project
would also support the Government's pilot efforts to strengthen health care
and hospital management in the country through technical assistance.
H. OTHER EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO THE HEALTH SECTOR
1.32     The external assistance of major supporters is described in Annex 8.
In the critical area of population activities, the Government is assisted by
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Yemen Family Planning
Association (YFPA) which is an affiliate of the International Planned
Parenthood Federation (IPPF). Major tTdited Nations Agencies are also active
in YAR, notably the World Food Program (WFP), the World Health Organization
(WHO), and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). Significant efforts
are aimed at improving nutrition, primary health care, immunization coverage,
and maternal and child health. WHO also supports laboratory services,
maintenance of medical equipment, development of mental health care,
rehabilitation, and occupational health.



-9
1.33     Among the major sources of bilateral assistance is the Federal
Republic of Germany's GTZ Project which supports the establishment of Primary
Health Care Units, the training of health educators and village midwives, well
construction, and environmental hygiene. The Netherlands supports the Dhamar
hospital program, outreach services, and rural water supply development. The
Tihama Primary Health Care and Child Survival Programs are supported by USAID.
Saudi Arabia contributes to hospital development and operations, primary
health care, water, and sanitation. Kuwait assists in hospital operations and
in the construction of a new medical school in Sana'a.
II. THEPRJC
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.01     The proposed project has two main objectives:
(a)   increase the quality, effectiveness, and level of services of the
existing health care system; and
(b)   facilitate the extension of health services to underserved
communities.
This would be achieved by:
(i) the development of regional administrative capacities and support
services;
(ii) human resources development of mid-level health professions; and
(iii) development of a program to strengthen hosoital management and health
care administration.
The objectives and components of the project were determined by MOH
and CPO in consultation with IDA following extensive internal sectoral review
and a national health seminar in which all of the Ministry's Directorates
participated.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. egional Administration And Support Services Development
2.02       The project would finance the strengthening of technical and
management skills and capabilities through staff training and retraining of
600 people in all of the country's governorates.  The numbers and distribution
of trainees are presented in Annex 12. The project would finance the
construction of nine maintenance workshops for bio-medical equipment and niae
pharmaceutical storage facilities; the extension of the existing workshops in
Hudeidah and Sana'a; the provision of equipment, medical equipment spare
parts, furniture, and office materials. MOH is also planning to strengthen
the Directorates' staff by 40 perc3nt with the addition of 180 incremental
positions within the next five years.



- 10 -
2.03     Operations that would be strengthened include: general
administration; personnel administration; accounting and budgeting;
statistics, information management and computer training; maintenance of
medical equipment; medical supplies management; food program supervision; and
secretariat, archives, typing, and English language training. These project-
financed inputs would be parallel to the ongoing strengthening of the primary
health care technical programs and health education and information, for which
local and external support and resources are currently available. Also, the
project would support the Project Management Office supervision expenditures
to facilitate efficient project implementation.
2.04     Training programs which involve administrative and financial courses
would be mostly conducted in Sana'a in the following threa institutions: (i)
the Financial and Banking Institute (MOF); (ii) the Tax Institute (MOF); and
(iii) the National Institute of Public Administration. Technical and heaith
sciences training would be conducted at the central HMI and at MOH General
Directorates in Sana'a. Inservice training would involve 10 percent of the
Directorates' staff every year.
2.05     Bio-Nedical Technician training would be conducted at the BMT
Training Section of the HMI located at Sana'a Central Repair and Maintenance
of Medical Equipment Workshop (RMME). The minimum educational level of BMT
candidates is secondary technical school. The duration of the training course
is 2 years, divided into 4 school-terms of 18 weeks each, plus a practical
period of one month. The emphasis is on technical subjects relevant to
medical equipment servicing. Sixty percent of the time is allocated for
theoretical teaching and 40 percent for practicals. The syllabus includes:
basic sciences in physics, mathematics, electricity, and electronics; English;
anatomy and physiology; structure of health services in YAR; medical equipment
and medical instrumentation; workshop techniques and safety; radiation
physics; computer applications, workshop practicals and technical
documentation.  Government assurances were obtained durine negotiations that
the secondary technical school level would be required as a selection
criterion for Bio-Medica'. Technician training, and that the Borrower shall, by
December 31 of each year. ensure that annual budgetary allocations required
for the maintenance of medical equipment and project facilities during the
following year are made.
2. Health Human Resources Development
2.06     The project would construct three regional nursing and midwifery
institutes in Dhamar, Ibb and Sa'ada, as branches of the Central Health
Manpower Institute, at sites near Governorate hospitals in each city. The
institutes would have administrative offices, a library, four general
classrooms with a capacity of 30 students in each, and two classrooms for
demonstrations and practical work. Each institute is designed to accommodate
90 students, with a boarding capacity of 60 students and 10 teachers. The
institutes would provide two three-year programs in nursing and midwifery as
well as a third one-year assistant nursing course. Forty percent of the
three-year curriculum is for theoretical work and 60 percent for practical
work; whereas the one-year curriculum consists of 75 percent practical work.



v 11 v
2.07     Initial enrollment in each branch would include 20 nurse and 10
midwife trainees every year. The HMI in Sana'a would provide 10 instructors
for each institute, including a branch director and a deputy. Limited nursing
training has already started in Dhamar in makeshift borrowed space. The
branches would also provide MOH with adequate space for in-service training of
health personnel working in the region. These institutes will have the
capacity to provide other courses for paramedical technicians in the future.
Government assurances wern obtained during negotiations that thirty
instructors would be emp_.  ed at the three HMI branches by June 1993.
2.08     The project would also expand the central HMI in Sana'a through the
construction of six classrooms with a capacity of 30 students in each, and
three laboratory/demonstration rooms for midwifery, environmental health and
pharmaceutical sciences. The resulting increase in national training
capabilities for nursing is estimated to be 30 percent. The project would
also finance curriculum upgrading of medical technicians, and the provision of
training materials, equipment, furniture and buses for the HMI's. The project
would also finance teaching staff housing for the HMI branch in Hajjah and the
rehabilitation of the HMI branch in Taiz. It would also provide training
equipment and materials for the Al-Thawra nursing school.
3. Health Care Management Develogment
2.09     This component would support an initial phase for strengthening the
skills and capabilities of a nucleus of managers within YAR's health system at
the referral level. Twelve person/months of technical assistance (TA) would
be provided to the main referral and medical training hospital to strengthen
its capabilities as a center for hospital management training. The referral
hospital has already succeeded in its pilot efforts of outreach supervision
and in organizing and curbing referrals from a network consisting of two rural
hospitals and their related centers and peripheral units. Main areas to be
addressed include: general management, financial management, strategic
planning, information management, materials management, maintenance
manAgement, medical records, and nursing administration (Annex 12). The TA
Team would work with designated staff, provide hands-on-training, and would
design and coordinate a program to address the training needs of 60 management
level employees, including a number of persons selected from other hospitals.
Concurrently, the TA Team would review the current level of management
practice in the country, determine the qualifications and quantity of managers
needed and their utilization patterns, design appropriate programs to address
those needs at the national level, and develop a national action plan for
strengthening hospital and health care management. The project would also
finance the development of a maternal and child health emergency unit and a
blood bank to support ongoing parallel efforts for improving the management of
clinical services and referrals. Government assurances were obtained during
negotiatio   that a training program for hospital management with monitorable
objectives would be formulated by December 1991. Thereafter, MOH would
implement the training program taking into account IDA's comments thereon; nd
that the review and national action plan for strengthening health care
management would be submitted for joint review with IDA by June 1993.
Thereafter, MOH shall carry out the first phase of the action plan on the
basis of such exchange of views with IDA.



- 12 -
2.10     The project would finance two implementation review workshops.  The
first would be held in 1993 and would constitute a mid-term review. The
second would be held in 1995, one year before the project's closing date. In
addition, the project would provide for a pre-investment study to prepare for
a future project phase.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
2.11     The proposed project was determined to be in screening Category C
which includes projects that do not result in a significant negative
environmental impact. No environmental analysis will be prepared for this
project.
m. PROJECT COSTS AND FINhNCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
3.01      Sy=marv.  The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at
YR 229.7 million or US$19.1 million equivalent. The estimated cost by project
component including local and foreign cost elements, is summarized below:
Table 3.01: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
(YR Million)          (US$ Million)               STotal
-____________________________   -----------------------------  ZForeiLn  Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Costs
A. Administration, Maintenance    30.1   51.2   81.3  2.5    4.3    6.8       63       48
& Supplies Manageaent
B. Health Manpower Development    22.0   33.5   55.4  1.8    2.8    4.6       60       33
C. Health Care tMnagement
Development                9.3   22.9   32.2       0.8    _.9    2.7        71      19
Total B^ASLINE COSTS        61-.4   107.6   169.0 |          9--F. 0    14.1   4      100
Physical Contingencies   5.8   10.6   16.3      0.5    0.9    1.4        6S       10
Price Contingencies    29.3   15. 1    44.4      2..    1.3    3.7       34       26
TOTAL POJECT COSTS*         965   133.2   229.7      8      11.1    19.1      58 |    136
* lnclvsiwe of taxes and duties stinated at US$2.0 million on locally procured items.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.



- 13 -
3.02    A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by category of expenditure is summarized below:
Table 3.02: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(YR Million)         (US$ Million)            ITotal
-____________________________   ----------------------------  SForeign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Costs
A. Civil Works            49.5   67.7  117.2    4.1    5.6    9.8       58     s9
B. EVipment, Furniture and  4.1   3607   40.8    0.3    3.1    3.4      S0     24
Vehicles
C. Technlcal Assistance and  7.8    3.2   11.0    0.7    0.3    0.9     29      7
Project Ngmt           ____
TotalI BASRLX rcOSTS      61.4  107.6  169.0    5.1 9I   0    14.1     64    100
Physical Contingencies  5.8   10.6   16.3    0.5    0.9    1.4     65      10
Price Contingencies  29.3   15.1   44.4      2 4    13    3 7      34      20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    I  96.5  133.2  229.7 1   8.0   11.1   19.1     58 1   136
Figures y not dd up due to rounding.
Basis of Cost Estimates
3.03    Construction costs are based on unit prices for contracts on civil
works under the First Health Project and on general construction cost
information in YAR.  Furniture and equipment costs for the HNI's, bio-medical
equipment maintenance workshops, pharmaceutical storage facilities, and the
MCH unit are based on current CIF prices, transportation from the point of
entry and installation costs. The estimates of technical assistance costs are
based on recent experience in YAR for comparable technical assistance by WHO.
The man-month cost of short-term consultants includes salaries, travel,
housing, office services, overhead, and recruitment costs. Baseline costs
reflect estimated prices at negotiations around April 1990. Items directly
imported for the proposed project are exempt from custom duties, but the
project cost includes about US$2.0 million equivalent in taxes on locally
purchased items.
3.04    The project costs include a contingency allowance of US$1.4 million
for unforseen physical additions equal to about 10 percent of the estimated
costs of civil works, furniture, equipment, materials, technical assistance
and training. The project also includes price contingencies estimated at
US$3.7 million or 26 percent of the total base cost of the project for the
period beginning at negotiations (April 1990) to the end of the implementation
period. Annual price increases for the period 1991-1996 are estimated at 4.9
percent for foreign costs; and for local costs, at 20 percent per annum for
the calendar year period 1990-1992 and at 15 percent per annum for 1993-1996.
Foreign Exchange Components
3.05    The estimated foreign exchange component of the project is US$11.1
million equivalent, about 58 percent of the total project cost. This estimate
is based on the following assumptions: most construction materials would be



- 14 -
imported; architects and engineers of the Ministry of Public Works would be
employed to design and supervise the works; and all equipment, buses and
supplies would be directly imported.
3.06     The foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is
estimated as follows: civil works, 60 percent; equipment, buses, furniture and
supplies, 90 percent; and local trainlng, consultant services, and project
management, 30 percent.
B. PROJECT FISEMCING
Capital Investment Costs
3.07     The proposed credit of US$15.0 million equivalent would finance 79
percent of the total cost of the project, or 100 percent of the estimated
foreign exchange costs and 49 percent of local costs. The Government would
finance the balance of local costs amounting to US$4.1 million equivalent or
21 percent of the total project cost. The proposed financial plan is
summarized below:
Table 3.4: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
CATEGORY                      IDA         GOVT         TOTAL
galital Cost
Civil works                       8.7         3.7         12.4
Equipment, materials, vehicles    4.1         -            4.1
Technical assistance               1.2        0.1          1.3
Subtotal                      14.0         3.8         17.8
Unallecar&A                    1.0         0.3          1.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED             15.0        4.1         19.1
porating and Maintenance Costs
3.08     Incremental recurrent expenditures that would be generated by the
proposed project at the end of the six-year period when the project becomes
fully operational and which take into consideration salaries, operation costs
and maintenance, are estimated at YR9.5 million (US$0.8 million). The
forecasted increases in recurrent expenditures would be approximately 1.4
percent in an unchanged health sector budget (1989-1996); and under one
percent of the total recurrent budget under likely scenarios (Annex 9,
Tab)l 6).



- 15 -
IV. SNminz  ND -MRO
A. QZ&IZATION ANp MANAGEMENT
4.01     A Project Management Office (PMO) has been established at NOR
Headquarters as an integral part of the Ministry, and is directly linked to
the Minister of Health (MOH Directive No. 2074 dated 11/11/89) to fac_litate
project implementation. The PMO team would coordinate the Government's
implementation activities as follows:
(a)   coordinate and supervise all project activities;
(b)   carry out procurement and arrange for timely withdrawals of credit
proceeds;
(c)   maintain project accounts;
(d)   monitor project implementation and prepare bi-annual progress
reports;
(e)   recruit consultants and monitor training activities; imd
(f)   liaise with IDA and ensure adherence to all Credit Agreement
provisions.
4.02     The PMO, headed by a General Director, would have two other key
full-time staff consisting of an administrative/financial assistant and an
architect. The PMO would also have a bilingual secretarY, a part-time
procurement officer and a driver. The Directorate-General of Finance and
Administration would be responsible for organizing and implementing the
training in personnel administration, accounting and budgeting, and archives;
the Directorate-General of Pharmacy & Medical Supplies for medical supplies
management training; and the General Directors of Health Administration,
Med.eal Services, and Health Manpower Institute for technical health programs
(paras. i.02-2.08). Architectural services and assistance for preparing
construction documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) as well as
construction supervision will be provided by the Ministry of Public Works
(MOPW). In the regions, the Governorate Health Directors would act as
regional implementation directors. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the PMO, with qualified staff under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, would be maintained throughout project
implementation.
Status of Preparation
4.03     In order to expedite the remaining preparatory and start-up
activities, a project preparation facility advance of US$90,000 vas requested
and approved on February 14, 1990. The purpose of the advance was to
facilitate the preparation of architectural designs, site surveys, and project
action plans and implementation arrangements by the Project Management Office.
All project sites are owned by MOH and are acceptable for purposes related to
the project. Except for tL.e sites indicated below, proof of acquisition was
confirmud. The site of the existing Central HMI is adequate to accommodate
the proposed extension. Preliminary architectural designs were completed by a
team of MOPW architects and engineers. Construction will be supervised by the
MOPW team. Master lists of maintenance and training equipment and materials



- 16 -
have been completed. Local training curricula and programs and terms of
reference for hospital management consultants are complete and satisfactory.
The furnishing of evidence satisfactory to IDA that sites for medical
equipment maintenance workshops and pharmaceutical storage facilities have
been acquired for purposes related to the project is a condition of
effifctivene3 of the credit.
Protect oMnitorinn and Supervision
4.04     Progress toward meeting project objectives would be monitored by MOH
and by IDA supervision missions that would be undertaken twice yearly. The
Project Director would participate in the supervision missions. Progress
would be documented by PMO in the progress reports drafted twice yearly. The
PHO Director would be responsible for preparing the reports and presenting
thiem to IDA every six months. Evaluation indicators that would facilitate
periodic assessments are presented in Annex 11. The two implementation review
workshops (para. 2.10) that would be held in 1993 (Mid-term Review) and 1995
(one year before closing date) would facilitate supervision activities.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that progress reports
would be presented to IDA every six uionths.
B. PROCUREMENT
4.05     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Project Element               Procurement Method                        Total
SE          LCB         OTHER       K.A,
Civil Works             11.3         1.5          -          0.6          13.4
(7.9)       (1.1)                   (0.4)        (9.4)
Equipment, Materials     2.7          -          1.7*          -           4.4
and Furniture           (2.7)                   (1.7)          -          (4.4)
Training, Specialist      -           -           -           1.3          1.3
Services, Project Supervision                                (1.2)        (1.2)
TOTAL                    14.0        1.5         1.7          i.9         19.1
(10.6)      (1.1)       (1.7)       (1.6)       (15.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
* Materials estimated at about US$0.5 million will be procured from UNICEF.



- 17 -
4.06     All construction, i.e. the Health Directorates' pharmaceutical
storage and medical equipment maintenance facilities, HMI facilities, MCH
evergency unit and the blood btnk, estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$500,000 or more, aggregating to about US$11.3 million, would be awarded
through ICB procedures according to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines of Hay
1985. Other new construction, including the extension of the maintenance
workshops in Hudeidah and Sana'a, the extension of the existing central HMI,
the construction of Hajjah HMI staff housing, and the rehabilitation o0 the
HNI in Taiz (average about US$200,000 each), aggregating to about US$1.5
million, are not expected to attract foreign bidders. They would be
contracted through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to
IDA. One set of sample bidding documents to be used for procurement through
LCB will be submitted for IDA's prior clearance. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the LCB procedures to be applied would
incorporate the basic principles outlined for IGB under the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
4.07        Equipment, furniture, materials, and buses, estimated at a total
of US$4.4 million equivalent, including contingencies, would be grouped to the
extent possible into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more and would be
procured through ICB, except for the following:
(a)   Equipment, training and laboratory materials, and furniture for
the health manpower institutes amounting to about US$0.5 mil1ion
and consisting of standard items from the UNIPAC catalog, are
expected to be procured from UNICEF, which is acceptable to IDA.
(b) Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 for which ICB would be impractical, would be purchased
through international shopping procedures based on comparing price
quotations from at least three suppliers from two countries.
Other small value items estimated to cost less than US$20,000
would be procured through local shopping procedures based on at
least three price quotations. These items would not exceed an
aggregate total of US$1.2 million (US$600,000 for international
shopping, and US$600,000 for local shopping).
4.08        For comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, qualifying
domestic contractors and manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers
or 15 percent of CIF price, whichever is lower. Consultants for IDA-financed
services would be selected and appointed in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants.
4.09        All draft bid documents and contracts for goods above US$100,000
to be procured and all qualifications of consultants will be subject to IDA's
prior review. IDA would also review the first set of the draft bid documents
for civil works to be awarded on the basis of LCB. A randomly selected sample
of other contracts would be subject to post review by IDA.



- 18 -
C. S
4.10        The credit of US$15.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of six years as projected in Annex 14. Disbursement would be made on
the basis of:
(a)   civil works             70 percent of total expenditures;
(b)   equipment, furniture    (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and materials           for directly imported items; (ii) 100
percent of ex-factory expenditures for
locally manufactured items; (iii) 85
percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally;
(c)   training, consultant    100 percent of foreign expenditures and
services, project       90 percent of local expenditures.
supervision, Project
Preparation Advance
4.i1        The current country disbursement profile is eight years.  The
proposed six-year implementation period takes account of the direct
Involvement and strengthening of the Governorate Health Directolates in the
proposed project and the experience acquired through the first health project.
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996. The closing date is
December 31, 1996.
4.12        Withdrawal applications for contracts above US$50,000 equivalent
would be fully documented. Disbursements against contracts below US$50,000
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Documentation for
these expenditures need not be submitted to IDA, but would be kept in the PHO
and would be subject to review by project supervision missions and auditors.
Snecial Account
4.13        In order to facilitate timely withdrawal of the proceeds of the
credit, an advance disbursement from the credit would be deposited in a
Speci.a Account, opened by the Borrower and maintained with the Central Bank
under terms acceptable to IDA. The project can be reimbursed from the Special
Account for payments made to contractors, suppliers, and others to cover IDA's
share of eligible expenditures. After credit effectiveness, IDA would, upon
receipt and approval of the Borrower's withdrawal application, make a deposit
to the Special Account in an amount up to US$0.5 million. IDA would replenish
the Special Account as requested upon receipt and approval of the borrower's
withdrawal application showing evidence that expenditures paid were eligible
for financing out of the credit.
Accounts and Audit,s
4.14        MOH's Project Management Office would maintain records of all
project accounts and would employ a full-time financial and administrative
assistant for this purpose. Project accounts would be audited annually by an



- 19 -
independent auditor acceptable to IDA and copies of the audited statements
would be sent to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that these conditions
would be met.
V. S    S  SD RISR;
Benefits
5.01        No economic rate of return has been calculated for the project
investments since the benefits are not easily quantifiable. By improving
sectoral services and the operational standards of the existing system
nationwide, the project would raise the standard of health -are and ultimately
contribute to improving the health status and quality of life of underserved
communities.
5.02        The project would create the capabilities to sustain further
development and improvement of health services through the 1990's. Moreover,
by providing support to the primary health care network, the project would
contribute to a more efficient use of resources and to restraining the
progressively escalating demands for the more expensive levels of health care.
5.03        The human resources development aspects of the project would
promote professional opportunities in the health sector for women.
Risks
5.04        Possible risks are related primarily to limited management
capacities at all levels and to difficult communications with the remote
governorates, which set limits on the pace of project implementation. The
administrative strengtheninLg supported by the project is expected to increase
MOH's project implementation capacities considerably. The experience acquired
by the Ministry of Health through the first project, the project's focus on
strengthening the Governorate Health Directorates to act as regional project
implementation agents, tVe assistance of the Ministry of Public Works, and the
project team's direct reporting to the Minister of Health, should also help to
minimize the risks.
VI. AGREENIETS ERACHED AND RECONNENDATIONS
6.01 During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   the secondary technical school level would be required as a selection
criterion for Bio-Medical Technician training (para. 2.05);
(b)   the Borrower shall, by December 31 of each year or such later date as
IDA may agree, ensure tha.. annual budgetary allocations required for the
maintenance of medical equipment and project facilities during the
following year are made (para. 2.05);



- 20 -
(c)   thirty instractors for the three branches of the Health Manpower
Institute would be employed by June 30, 1993 (para. 2.07);
(d)   a training program for hospital management with monitorable objectives
would be formulated by December 31, 1991, and would be furnished to IDA
for its views and comments. Thereafter, MOH would implement the
training program taking into account IDA's comments thereon (para.
2.09);
(e)   the review and action plan involving multiple systems for strengthening
hospital and health care management would be submitted for joint review
with IDA by June 30, 1993. Thereafter, MOH shall carry out the first
phase of the action plan on the basis of such exchange of views with IDA
(para. 2.09);
(f)   the PNO, with qualified staff under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, would be maintained throughout project implementation (para. 4.02);
(g)   the LCB procedures to be applied would incorporate the basic principles
outlined for ICB under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (para. 4.06);
and
(h)   conditions for progress reports and audit reports would be met
(paras. 4.04 and 4.14).
6.02        The furnishing of evidence satisfactory to IDA that sites for the
medical equipment maintenance workshops and pharmaceutical storage facilities
have been acquired for purposes related to the project is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 4.03).
6.03        Subject to the above conditions, the project would be suitable for
a credit of SDR 11.7 million equivalent to the Government of the Yemen Arab
Republic.



- 21 -
Page 1 of 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF PPRAISAL REPORT
Health and Nutritional Status
HEALTS
Epidemiological patterns are changing and new priorities are evolving in
most developing countries, the YAR included, and the socio-economic burden of
chronic and degenerative diseases is emerging. It is clear that the impact of
poverty and disability aggravates this complicated epidemiological profile.
The majority of the poor who survive childhood, drift through life in a state
of chronic ill-health which sets them apart and limits their participation in
normal social and economic life. In addition, environmental hazards require
health and safety legislation particularly for industry, per'-urban
settlements and migrant workers.
The YAR's health indicators reveal substantial improvements since the
early 1970's; however, the health status remains inadequate. Traditional
problems related to communicable diseases, malnutrition and childbirth are
still among the major challenges to be addressed.
The average crude death rate, 19/1000, remains behind the average
11/1000 for other developing countries. The death rate is three times higher
than that of industrialized countries.  Life expectancy has increased over the
last two decades, but the present expectancy of 46 years is still 10 years
less than the average for less developed countries and almost 30 years less
than industrialized countries.
The low life expectancy in the YAR reflects the high probability of
dying before the age of five; once a person has survived to age five, his life
expectancy increases to 56 years. In 1988, UNICEF rated the YAR as having the
20th highest under five mortality rate in the world. Efforts over the last
two decades have succeeded in bringing the infant mortality rate down from 200
per 1000 births to 130 per 1000. However, today's rate is still much higher
than the average 90/1000 for less developed countries, and 10/1000 for the
industrialized countries. Such high rates are a direct result of communicable
diseases, inadequate environmental hygiene, lack of education about safe
health practices, unavailability of pre-natal and post-natal care services,
poor family planning, and lack of basic health services. These problems are
exacerbated by the unsatisfactory nutritional status which inhibits children's
ability to resist disease. Infant and child mortality can be directly
correlated to the interval between births, and the mother's age and health
status (Gokgol-Kline, 1987). The major immediate causes of infant morbidity
are presented in the table below:



- 22 .
Annex 
Page 2 of 5
Leading Causes of Morbidity in Infants (Below One Year)
Percentages of All Causes
Males       Females fTf;1
Infectious and Parasitic Diseases         39.4         44.6        41.0
Diseases of the Respiratory System         28.3        20.6        25.8
Diseases of the Digestive System            5.0         2.7         4.2
Injuries and Poisoning                      1.6         1.8         1.7
l9S2g=: MOH and WHO
Mortality rates rise higher for women than for men after the age of 15,
when childbearing risks begin. Maternal mortality is very high, at a rate of
at least 1,000 deaths per 100,000 births. The main causes of direct obstetric
deaths are hemorrhage, sepsis, obstructed labor, and eclampsia (the extreme of
toxemia). Factors that contribute to the YAR's high maternal mortality rate,
which is 100 times that of industrialized countries, are: the high rates of
unsupervised deliveries due to lack of midwives, nurses, and trained birth
attendants (only 121 of births are attended); unsanitary conditions of the
birth environment; poor physical and cultural access to hospital emergency
facilities; high birth rates; short intervals between births; anemia; and
childbearing at a young age (191 of births are given by women under age 20).
Significant among the prevalent infectious and parasitic diseases
affecting the adult population are intestinal parasites, gastroenteritis,
pulmonary tuberculosis, urinary and gastrointestinal schistosomiasis, eye
infections, and malaria. The effects of illnesses are often greater on women
because of their lack of mobility, their modesty, strenuous workload and
frequent pregnancies. Women have limited access to health care facilities and
are often reluctant to be seen by male physicians.



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Le&Jing Causes of Morbidity for All Ages
Percentage of All Causes
males       E_=l1ef     Total
Complications of Pregnancy, Childbirth,
and Puerperim                               0.0        45.8        19.6
Infectious and Parasitic Diseases          22.4        12.3        18.4
Injuries and Poisoning                     18.7         7.6        13.9
Diseases of the Digestive System           16.1         6.6        12.0
Diseases of the Respiratory System         10.3         6.3         8.6
Diseases of the Circulatory System          8.0         4.4         6.5
Source: KOH and WHO
Among the factors that contribute to the poor health status are
inadequate hygiene and sanitation conditions and low levels of education.
Safe water is accessible to only 21X of the population. Inadequate knowledge
of modern health care benefits and low coverage of the health care delivery
network contribute to the low level of immunization coverage and elevated
incidence rates of the main communicable diseases of childhood, as seen in the
table below.
Incidence Rate of EPI Target Diseases
Per 100,000 Population
Diphtheria .1.5
Pertussis (Whooping cough) .115.0
Tetanus (All ages) .5.6
Neonatal Tetanus (per 100,000 live births)              14.9
Poliomyelitis .6.2
measles .310.0
Tuberculosis (All forms) .24.0
Source: KOH and WHO



- 24 -
Page 4 of 5
Selected Immunization Coverage Rates
Immunization Coverage (X), children under one year
BCG ...........................     41X
DPT 3     ..............            29X
Polio 3 ....                        29X
Measles    ..    281
Tetanus Toxoid 1 dose/2 doses
Pregnant women ................     61 / 31
Non-pregnant women ............     21 / 1X
All ...........................     3X / 1X
Source: UNICEF, 1988
NUT;IXON
Improved nutritional status requires substantial intersectoral inputs
and cooperation. In view of the present institutional weaknesses in the
country, it is expected that progress in this critical area will be slow.
Malnutrition, which affects a large portion of the Yemeni population,
often begins in utero, as a result of the mother's poor nutritional state and
inadequate care during pregnancy. Children with a poor nutritional start face
high chances of increased malnutrition for they are not well equipped to
withstand the nutritional stresses of the unhygienic, disease-ridden
environment into which they are born (Beatty and van Dijk, 1988).
Malnutrition is more ce-mon in rural areas, where 871 of the population
resides. According to 1989 UNICEF data, there has been improvement since the
1979 National Nutrition Survey which found that of rural children 3 months to
5 years of age, 561 were chronically malnourished; 71 were concurrently wasted
and stunted; and 42 were wasted. Among the many factors which contribute to
this high rate of malnutrition are infectious diseases; lack of environmental
hygiene, sanitation and safe water supplies; poor eating habits; short
intervals between births; delay of the introduction of solid foods; the use of
Qat during pregnancy and lactation; the mother's health and workload; limited
access to resources; lack of adequate education; and local preference for
small babies to ease delivery. Another factor which poses a threat to normal
growth is the prevalence of supplementing breast-feeding with inadequately
prepared commercial milk. Unfortunately, bottle feeding is a status symbol
with some villagers and is enhanced by the erroneous confidence in the health
attributes of commercial feeding. The combined presence of so many
detrimental factors, frequently and for a prolonged period of time exacerbate
malnutrition.



- 25 -
Armex I
Page 5 of 5
Gastroenteritis, one of the most common health problems in the YAR, is a
good example of the dangerous interaction which occurs between disease, poor
environmental hygiene, and malnutrition. Nausea and loss of appetite caused
by gastroenteritis lead to a decrease in food intake. At the same time, fever
and demands fo. tissue repair lead to an increased need for protein and
calories. Diarrhea leads to decreased absorption of essential nutrients which
worsens the nutritional status of the affected individual. Poor nutritional
status leads to decreased immunity and susceptibility to more infections and
higher mortality. Thus, in many cases the poor nutritional status is not due
to lack of available nutrients, but to the complications of the infectious
process.
Another critical determinant of the nutritional status of Yemenis is the
condition and behavior of the mother, before and during pregnancy. If a
mother is malnourished, the chances are greatly increased that her child will
be born with a low birth weight, which makes the child especially susceptible
to malnutrition. Low birth weights are common in births given by women under
the age of 20 years. The physical and nutritional stress on women, which is
heightened by a large number of pregnancies close together, is also closely
related to children's nutrition. On the average, Yemeni women have 8 children
and breast-feed for 13 months, so that many are either breast-feeding or
pregnant from their teens until their 30's or 40's (Al-Sharawy, 1989).
Although nutritional requirements during lactation are even greater than
during pregnancy, many women lack the opportunity to replace nutritional
losses or recuperate after a pregnancy. The malnutrition of the population as
a whole thus relates back in many ways to the nutritional status of women.
There are insufficient data on the specific percentage of malnourished
women in the YAR. In a sample of rural Yemeni women, 17 percent were below
nutritionally safe levels of body mass and height (UNICEF, 1989). Anemia,
largely due to iron-deficient diets, malaria, and the drain of frequent
pregnancies and breastfeeding, is common among Yemeni women. As a result of
anemia, general health, resistance to infection, cognitive development, and
work performance are compromised. Among the many factors contributing to the
overall poor nutritional status of women are infectious disease loads,
inadequate birth spacing, young pregnancies, and the lack of access to care
during pregnancy.
The YAR Government supports programs that work toward alleviating
malnutrition. Included among those are: mass media information, health
education, maternal and child health, growth monitoring, nutrition
rehabilitation, oral rehydration and control of diarrheal disease, promotion
of breast-feeding, education concerning adequate weaning practices, expanded
programs on immunization, and primary health care extension. The World Food
Program has two major operations targeting vulnerable groups which amount to
US$47 million (Annex 8). The Government has succeeded in expanding food
production to meet fresh fruit and vegetable requirements for the local market
in the last few years.



X~~~~MM



- 27 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVEWPLT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
m K MINIT    OX HEALTH
IBM= WAL RE MU
NIUSTER CF HATHI
IHALTH & MEDICAL SEMCESI
GOALTH SEVICES
!N   1             ~~~~~INLI SBCUI           MLI 0cm
83~~~~~~~~~~~~~i w                        X
P3                           <3                        h



^ 28 -
Anrex 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHYSICAL RESOURCES - NOE MEML=H FACILITIES
TYPE OF FACILITY             1975       1984         1988      X INCREASE
HOSPITALS                      25         33           39           64X
Number of Beds         2,688     4,158         4,703           57X
HEALTH CENTERS                 12         51           70          5831
Number of Beds           350      1,277        1,342          383X
TOTAL NUMBER OF BEDS        3,050      5,486        6,115
SUB-CENTERS                    27        184          297          802X
PHC UNITS                      75        299          361          481X
Source: Directorate General of Planning, Statistics, and Evaluation (PSE),
1989



- 29 -
Annex S
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVEWOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DISTRIBUTION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
OSPIALS       CLINICS
------------ -----------   TOTAL       MELTH  RUIAL  PAWNA-    MDU
Units lReds  Units  Bed    BEDS        cENTEs UNs   AmIES   WAIMOUSES
CapitaL Arsa         6  1,697     0       0   1,697           8      0       115          44
Sane'a               3     44    18    258      302          43    54          0         143
Tait                 9  1.106     5    120   1,226           62    36         54         193
Nodledab             3    904     4    220   1,124           26    85         17          82
Ibb                 2    11I    12    203       320          17    88          0          58
Dhfmr                1    150     7    140      290           16    24        10          84
aoJiah               2     87     4     92      159          12    13          0          23
8b"dah               2     85     1     20      105          10      8         3          43
Mahveet              1     35     4      40      75           8    10          1          22
heide                3     95     3     37      132          32    13          3          1S
Nareb                0      0     3      52      52          24    12          0          10
Al-Jawf              7    383     8    160      543          37    16         14          92
T 0 T A L           39  4,703    69  1,342   6,025           297   361        217         799
ScuMr: Directorate General of Planning, Statistics, and Evaluation (PSE), 1989



- 30-                                          6
8  At" SIUIgIWl
16ATNI SECTOR DEWLOPNEUT PROJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR
TNE 11NV1S 0 IFALTI
1975 99  
......................    .............................................
N-                     N-             Ia.c.
JCOR ESCtIPlION                  WIIUI  1III TOTAL   11   13Ml TAL  PCETAiE
N601CA. S.AFF
Phsiie                           181    114  295        96O     357 t,            4531
DOntits                          9       7   16         42      31  7i           45
Phameists                        20      1S   35        153      32  185          529
Pethologists                      0       0    0         4        3    7            as
.....   .....       .      ........ .................-*-^
Total Ne. Stt                   210    136  346        1179     423 1402
PtARMIICAL
Registed INrses                  181    119  300        76    1117 1.93           6311
iaves                             1S     30   45         48      45   93          207X
Swoory A AsA1ats                  0       0    0         3       23   26            oX
ursing Assit's                  619       0  619    1.536         1 1539          2491
rAaesthetic Assit's               11      2   13         20      10   30          2311
, .......... .. ......  .....  .......    .....   ....... .....
total Paraedical                826    151  977        2385    1196 3581
NID-LEVEL NEALtH TEC.
Sigh School Grads
.................._._____........................._
snitt1en Supv-Ntth Oter          79       0   79         0        0    0           OX
Phscian Assist.                   0       0    0        29        4   33           Ox
X-Ray tecsd1cian                 14       5   19        52       64  116         6111
Lhodwatory Technician             4       a   12       211       82  m           24421
"edlcat l p. tachnitebn           0       0    0         22      12   34            0X
Statstics technician              0       0    0         3        5    8           OX
Rentat Technician                25       0   25         7        2    9           36X
Phrocy tcchn1icin                 0       0    0        60       10   70           Ox
PhysiotheFiists                   0       0    0        82       11   9             ox
_..   ...        ...           .....   .....
Toetl Hid-Level Tech.            122     13  135       4t6      190  656
HEALT TECNNICIANS (OTNERS)
Gudes (F _1es)                    0       0    0        219       0  219            OX
Sopertvsirn  Trainers (Felaes)    0       0    0         22       0   22            0X
Supervising Tr1inrs ONmlss)       0       0    0        63        0   63            01
Nutrit1enists                     0       0    0         2        1    3            oX
PiC vokfr 0                              0    0                      St 0566       as
LocalSirth Attendants             0       0    0       492        0  492           Ox
.....  ...... .....    .....   ..... .......... ___
Total Isolth Tech. (Others)       0       0    0       1364       1 1360
Notea The" statistics db not include the Nilitary Nelth Services, the Cooperatives
.td the Private Sector



- 31 -                                           Arm x
Pan. 1 of 2
VEM   AMA REPUDLIC
HEALTR SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE WINISTRY Of HEALTH
GRADUATE OUTPUT OF THE HEALTH KAIPC0ER INSTITUTE
AND ITS BRANCHES
COURSES DESCRIPTION            1973  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1966 1987 TOTAL
A: 3-YEAR COURSES
1-Nursing-General                39    40    37   31   63   61    47   48    55   59    77   59   103  719
2-Laboratory Technicians          3     4    2      2    12    4      8    12    8    12   13   17   15  112
3-Sanitary Controtlers            5    3    10      2    9      5    10    8      5    7    6       4    13   87
4-Physician Assistants            0     0     0    0      0    10    9    18   13   16   14   18   19  117
5-Pharnfiat Assistants            0     0     0     0    0    8    10   11   10   10   14   20    16   99
6-Radiotogy Teemhcieans           0     0     0     0    0      0    0    10    4       6    10     7    13   50
7-Nidiives                        0     0     0     0     2    0      0     0     7    11   18   14    4    56
8-Anestlasia Technicians          0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0    6    6       6     0     0    18
Sub-Total   4?   47   49   35   86   88   84   107  108  127  158   139   183  1258
B: 1-YEAR COURSES
1-Nursing-Practical Training    36   36   48   20   28   25    20   77   *3  115  109  115   170  872
2-Laboratory Processors          12   14   14   12    9         9    11   14   15   14    3         0    16  143
3-Radiology AIdes                 0     0     0    G      0    0    15    0   24    13   22    15    0   89
4-Comnumity Nursing Aides         0     0     0     0    0    21      2    10    6      0     0     0     0   39
Sub-TotaL    48   SO   62   32   37   SS   48   10:  118  142   134   130  186 1143
C: PHC COURSES
1Heatth Counselors (Kale)        0     0     0     0     0    0    57   43    45    25   87    56   8?  400
2-Heatth Co0nselors (Fem)         0     0     0     0     0     0    0    10   21   49    16   91    28  215
3-Training Supervisors            0     0     0     0     0    0 21    13    19   61          0   33      0   147
Sub-Totat     0     0     0     0     0    C    78   66   85   135   103   180   115  762
TOTAL                            95   97   111    67   123  143  210  274   311  404  395 449  484  3163
u~zam=   =a  ==a =minu=  an*              =0u    m    au=  m.  =.  =.m



32  -                                   Page 2 ot 2
YErN ANS APLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE NINISTRY Of HEALTH
GRADUATE 0UTPUT OF THE HEALTH NAPWER INSTITUTE
AND ITS BRANCHES
19a8   ACADEMIC   YEARS
............... ..............................~_................ 
CURSES DESCRIPTtON                                FIRST VR   SECORD YR  tHIRD YR   ORAETES
A: SAWNAA  RACH
1-Cneral Nursing (Irct. Midwives)                        95          60           63           29
2-Health Officers                                            )        11           10           8
3-Radiology Technician                                       )        10            7            4
4-Laboratory Technician                                 133 )         23           15           8
5-Pharmacist Assistants                                     )         26           13          16
6-Physician Assistant                                        )        27           21          19
7-Maintenance Technician                                  7            2
8-Midwifery (Incl. Gen. Nursing - Co-Ed)                               4           11          13
Sub-Total          235          163          140           97
3: 1-TAIZ BRANCH
.............. ............................. .....
I-Nursing                                                40          27           17           14
2-Nidwifery                                               9            9                        7
,........ . ........     ......       ........ ...
Sub-Total           49            o6          17           21
C: AL-N0AIDA BRANCH
. . .......................................... .........
1-Nursing  (Co-Ed)                                       72          30           29           26
2-Midwifery                                                           12
Sub-Total            72          42           29           26
D: DNAIUR BRACH
........... ..................... ........... ...............
1-Nursirg                                                             18
-- --   -   .............  ......... ..----......-----...... ..
0          18            0            0
T O T A L                            356          259          186          14
333         3333         3233         333



- 33 -                             Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENT MAJOR EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH SECTOR (in US
SOURCE      PROGRAMS
WHO         Technical assistance and support for health manpower development,
maintenance and repair of medical equipment, health information,
occupational health, development of mental health care, laboratory
services, essential drugs and vaccines, communicable disease
co.ntrol, statistical development at MOH, rehabilitation, and
workers' health.
US$4 million every 2 years.
UNICEF      Expanded Program of Immunization, primary health care, rural water
supply, health education, and procurements for MOH.
US$1.7 million annually.
W1E         Food supplements and education for pregnant and lactating mothers,
malnourished children, hospital patients, and tuberculosis and
leprosy cases. In addition, assistance to the education and
social affairs sector through the support of school nutrition,
teachers schools and dormitories, trainees in women's associations
for artisanal and productive skills and illiteracy programs.
US$24 million to the health sector and US$23 million to Social
Affairs, until 1993.
UNCDF       Rural water supply and primary health care.
UNFPA       Population data collection, analysis, dynamics and policy
formulation; population information and education; MCH and family
planning.
US$8 million every 5 years.
USAID       Child Survival, health education, Tihama Primary Health Care
Project, and population activities.
US$12 million.
Netherlands Dhamar hospital and related programs, rural water supply and
sanitation, Health Manpower Institute and its branches, and
maintenance of medical equipment.
USSll million.
Federal     Primary health care - development of centers and training of
Republic    workers, with an emphasis on women; water and sanitation;
of Germany  health education.



- 34 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
SOURCE      PROGRAMS
Saudi       Development of mental health care, laboratory services, primary
Arabia      health care, maternal and child health care, communicable disease
control, hospital and health centers construction and operation,
water and sanitation, and rehabilitation.
Kuwait      Construction and operation of Kuwait hospital in Sanasa, and
construction of the new medical school.
Eastern    Health personnel teams for curative care.
Europe
Notes:      (i) In t;,e early eighties, health and rural water supply accounted
for about 10 percent of multilateral capital investment and 2
percent of bilateral capital investment.



lIE  *3*3 IEPULIC
HEALTH OEMTO  OEWELOPSSH  PROWUC
STAFF AF9SISAL UNiT
34131K OF INTERNA ASSISTANCE
Ii   I  iIUiWusIETEI -aw,I           I     Ii  I    I i      It       lII   II    I    ImORTI  I   I   I ECI
EXENIMAA ASISTTMIN    IMmIIUtEFIUFPIFPAIAIOI tANUS IMARIAIUAItITIJVtTLIUNWFUKI  M INPMl1SRAUMCESIF3I..DTALl IJW mIRASwIWICiSWDJWIiWPM
ftiwtw  f PI IA I              til                I I 1                  1        11            ll                     1       1        1
N.u'.wsrPtheweIsn           lIx    I             I       I      I                     I     I I        II   x           I     I    li       I I       I
U&o&  Srven          Ii    liii                   I   I              i        i       ,            itI11                                1
umtnta~u~efs~ai~mn    xi  I       I   I    I  X   I         I     I I   I  I    ix  I           I  I  IX I    I    I    lXIX  I   I    I
Vater_______________tf __n ____    I    x   ~I     I -   I    I. I -   I  I  -   I.    -    I.    I  I  I .1  I        I    . I  -    K   I   I   I 
NsnaiutthCEmtan I.  xi                I  I    I  I       INX       I     I    I   xI        I   I      I  IX I  I    I    I    I  I   I   I    I
Nutritfryn  IvIceslx                      I  I    I    I              Ix  I  I   I    I   I      I   I    I  I   I   I    I   I    I          I l     I
ftputtf c~tfvftfaa.ontrIt              I    I    I          x   lI   I   I    I   I   I    I    I    I  I  I   I    x  I    I  I   I   I    I



-36-                               Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
-j*Il_   I_   I    I I_  I_l__ I    I    I_   I_   I_
I    1  I    III
0  I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I    I      I    I
RI      I    I    I    I    I    I    I          Ix 
T I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
i i     l-i 3             I    I 3         I 3    3I3 3    3
oa ~      *       xj      I    jx  1 1      Ix      I    I    I    I
|gE    8       I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
_      __  I__I   I____ I_ I               _j_ I_j_ I 
_ ;    i_ !_    _    _    _    _    _           _  I_   I_       _
I  I    I     I   X I   X I     I    I     I     I   X I     I
1~~~~~4 ,4'I1          }    ,i                2   



- 37 -
Am=e 9
Page 1 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE 1: Current MOH EKnenditures for Health 1983-1989
(In Millions of Current Yemen Rials)
Current MOH                  As X of Total Current
Health Expenditures              Government Budget
1983               177.0                            2.8
1984               173.2                            2.8
1985               232.0                            3.4
1986               284.0                            3.6
1987                 8.4                            3.5
1988               559.5                            4.2
1989 (planned)     685.1                            4.5
S0=ce: Ministry of Finance



- 38 -
Page 2 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVEWPIIENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE 2: Actual MOM Capital E&penditures for Health 1983-1987
(In Willions of Current Yemen Rial)
Capital KOH              As X of Total
Expenditures         Public Investment Budget
1983              234.3                       8.5
1984              169.1                       5.9
1985              137.7                       5.6
1986              159.4                       5.5
1987              148.2                       2.6
Source: Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of Yemen



- 39 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE 3: Third Five YeAr Zlan (1987-199l)
Capital Investments
(In Millions of Yemen Rials)
Total For | of
Public Services               1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1987-1991 Total
Educational                   353   587   650   764   830   3,184       23.4
Health                        184   195   207   219   232   1,037         7.
Municipal and Environment      142   200   253   269   290   1,154        8.5
Public Works, and Rural Water 244   100   102   105   105      656       4.8
Security and Civil Register   104   306   364   392   434   1,600       11.8
Armed Forces and Defense       350   365   365   375   405   1,860       13.7
Agriculture                    159   202   289   322   356   1,328        9.8
Mining and Energy              48    24    25    25    30      152        1.1
Transportation and
Communication                  52    71    75    85   118      401        3.0
Manufacturing                    3     6    10    10    13      42       0.3
Supply and Trade                       7    11    11    11      40       0.3
Information and Culture        24    10    11    12    13       70       0.5
Labor and Social Affairs       15    37    38    40    43      173        1.3
Justice                          5    40    80    90   103     318        2.3
Administrative Reform &
Institute for Public            7    10    11    11    11       50       0.4
Administration
Ministry of Finance              8    30    37    45    47     167        1.2
Other Central & Local
Services                      418   166   222   305   269   1,380        10.1
Total                          2,116 2,356 2,750 3,080 3,310 13,612    100.00
Source: CPO



- 40 -
Page 4 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE 4: Third Five Year Plan (1987-19911
Health Services Investment
(In Nillions of Yemen Rials)
PERCENT
OF
TOTAL
Institutional Support for the Ministry of Health ......     51.0      4.9
Basic Services Project ................................    400.0     38.6
Preventive Medicine Project ...........................      4.0      0.4
Health Information and Guidance .................... ..      5.0      0.5
Health Manpower Training ..............................     66.0      6.4
Hospital Equipment and Operations .....................    382.0     37.0
Artificial Limbs Project ..............................     19.0     1.8
Medical Laboratories and Blood Bank ...................     18.0      1.7
Nutrition Programs in Hospitals .......................      4.0      0.4
Nursing Schools .............                               80.0   7.7
Central Drug Control Laboratory .......................      8.0      0.8
TOTAL 1,037.0    100.0
Sourcg: Directorate of Planning and Statistics, MOH Five-Year Plan
1987-1991 (August 1987).



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6
YE1E1 ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE 5: Estimated Overall Current Health Expenditure Flous, 1988
(YR '000)
(1)      (2)     (3)      (4)         (S)                  OF UHICH
OTHER            PRIVATE   PRIVATE               ---.-.-.---
RECIPIENTS         NOM     PUBLtC   NOF  PROVIDERS  PHARMACIES   TOTAL  PUBLIC PRIVATE
SOURCES
1. NOR Budget            467,673   91,827                                  559,500  100.0X  0.01
2. Other Gvt                       88,000                                   88,000  100.0X  0.0X
3. Local Councils          6,500                                             6,500  100.0X  0.0O
4. External Assistance   83,370 450,000                                    533,370  100.0X  0.0X
5. Private                                  18,453   292,500    726,000  1,036,953    1.8X 98.2X
.... ....................... ......... ....... ..........    ....... ...........  --- ----
TOTAL                 557543  629,827   18,453  292,500   726,000 2,224,323   54.2X 45.81
Of Which:
- Public Resources    85.0X   28.61       0.01      0.01      0.01       29.41
- Private Resources     0.01     0.01   100.01    100.01     100.01      46.6X
- ExternaL Resource    15.01   71.4X      0.0X      0.01       0.01      24.01
SOURCE: MON and World Bank mission estimates.
NOTES:
- Estimates de not include health expenditures of the military sector
- External assistance includes bilateral an awltiLateral sources; multilateral funds include
uitrition support through WFP
- 0Other publife recipients include the Revolution, Kuaeit, Jiblah and Al Salam hospitals



- 42
Anex 9
Page 6 of 6
YEM  ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTQR DKVEWPNENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE 6: Istimted Iacremetal Recurrent Expenditures
(in constant TR 1000s; 1989 value)
Operation                As Z of      As  otf    A  of
and               low sudget 19e  Budget 196  Udget
Selaies Heintnance Total         (1)           (2)         (3)
A. MIALTS    tu
DmUW
- cral nu                                                  240      6o      840
- ElM kanbes                                               600      g00    1400
(per branch)
S. GOVWAT                                                       430      60      490
A  IMS
Sm
TOTALS FR
LUDDBS 3 MU
lEMACS AID 9
OO,U3AZU  1IV                                             5910    3540    9450         1.37         1.0          0.7
(1) the 1996 1M  recuroant bld .t tsemead eual to the 19 budget (UROS million) in real terx.
(2) the 196 NI recurrt budget (119  dilloan) l Obtained asumig an aveage annua rate of increse of 5S  (in rel
term) betwee  196  ad 1996.
(3) the 1996 1   rMeOuren  budget tRl.335 Mllion) IS obtained assumins an average aI   rate of Inoroea of 10  (in
wel term betwe  1989 and 1096.
8ource: ID misaion estimates



- 43 -
Annez 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HLALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LONG TERM GOALS
-- Extension of basic health care coverage to the majority of the population
-- Improved, more effective and efficient health services
-- Alleviation of human resources constraints
-- More equitable access to training and employment in the sector for women
-- Increased administrative and support service capabilities to sustain the development
of healtI services
Septor Issuet                   prolect Obiectives        Prolect Components
Weak regional                   Strengthen Governorate   Training and retraining
administrations                 Health Directorates       programs; increasing
administrative and technical
staff positions.
Limited capacities in           Develop related           Construction of bio-medical
medical supplies                capacities                maintenance workshops and
management, storage                                       pharmaceutical storage
facilities, and bio-                                      facilities; and training
medical maintenance                                       programs
Limited numbers of health       Develop mid-level         Establishing 3 regional schools
personnel training              health professions        for nursing and midwifery;
institutions                                              expanding the Central HHI;
upgrading the training
curriculum for nursing and
medical technicians
Weak hospital management        Support initial phase    Technical assistance; consultant
to strengthen key         services; training, and
systems                   development of a national action
plan.



- 44-w
Annex 11
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EVALUATION MNICATORS
A.   STRENGTHENING THE REGIONAL HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
Quantitative Indicators:
Number and schedule of established pharmaceutical storage facilities,
biomedical maintenance workshops, number of personnel by category.
Oualitv and Efficiency Indicators:
Subjective performance assessment by General Directors; qualifications
of staff, recruitment, transfer and posting decisions; percentage of
workforce with periodic in-service training; number of drugs below
critical level; number of supervisory visits by category of supervisory
staff; percentage of health facilities functioning satisfactorily;
utilization review, annual job list reports, and outcome of maintenance
services.
B.    HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Number and schedule of established facilities for health manpower
training; nursing enrollments and graduations, drop-out rates,
transition to the labor market, post-graduation assignments, teacher
qualifications, number of upgraded training curricula.
C.    EALTH INDICATORS
Periodic monitoring of progress in the implementation of the HFA
Strategy with WHO. Global indicators, health status, availability of
health care, and health expenditures.
D.    HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
Training program indicators of Al-Thawra Hospital and as determined by
the National Action Plan in 1993.
E.    IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW WORKSHOPS
Findings of the two Implementation Review Workshops to be held in 1993
and 1995



| t  i       r  tg    -  a-  Wfi  {[          frgi     I 
*    0                              N                     W       S    *     W 
NtM N     0t 0             W    O    0        N   W
I~~                           * O33  ^ F F                     8   
|   -    WS   N        O     N    N        S       J.   US   C.       US   N9                        3
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
r--------------------------                                                        -   S
|  ~      U                        IV WA  N~             OA N       * U w W                i
i   "    ei   "     N    N    WS        C       0.   0.   N        US   US        II. |           -     n
-   - -   -   -   - -   - - - - - - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~-S                 .
US N    W.   N    N    NS    W                   Ul  W.   O          N                        B      
' WS   N          0O   N    N         N    *S            Os      N    N          M              I  _I 
g    -    N    WS       41   N    N        N        WS    *   Ul       N    N                
a  N    -               WS   N    N        N       N     .   US       N    N              *  
|    _    N             USW    N    N      N        N     *    WS      N    N           g     
_    N    _        US   N    NU       N        N     *   US       N    N                m
F--_    N    _             N    N    N         N       N     *   N        US   Nfi
|    _    N    -         *   N    N        N        N     *   N        N    N          
_     _     _    _    _     _    _     _    _     _    _     _    _____                     S.
|  tb   e8    8    X  t   -  ~~~~~~~ oN    _    Z   U    N        X ~~~~* m4
le   .    .    .S       0    .S    .        .       .~  .S    .         .S    . 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
S 3 T                                           --                  -       -
Zt x        --      ---        ---        --_        ---         ----_



- 46 -
Arm   ILx2
Page 2 of 5
EME ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EQa
HWALTHCARE HANAGENE  DslIWP
The Ministry of Health (MOH) is striving to strengthen the organization and
management of its health system. The KOH needs to develop its management
capabilities, improve its management support systems, and promote the
decentralization of its organizational structure. The Health Sector
Development Project would support the strengthening of managerial and
technical skills nationwide.
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES TRAINING
As a core component of the Health Sector Development Project, approximately
600 KOH employees would be provided local training in general and personnel
administration, accounting and budgeting, statistics and computers,
maintenance of medical equipment, secretariat and archives, English language,
typing, medical supplies management, and food program supervislon. The
details of this component of the Project are described in the text of the
Staff Appraisal Report, with a table of participants and teaching programs
presented in the Summary Table.
liL333_ WAEMENT DEVELOPMENT
The Health Sector Development Project would support twelve person months
(52 person weeks) of technical assistance to help develop and conduct a two-
component program to strengthen the skills and capabilities of a nucleus of
managers withir. YAR's health system. In Component (a), TA would be provided
to Al-Thawra Hospital to help develop its capabilities as a center for health
management training, and in Component (b), for the design of a national action
plan for strengthening hospital and health management throughout the health
sector. A three-person technical assistance team would be selected, composed
of specialists in hospital/health administration, management training, and
hospital/health management education. The team would be responsible for
working with a local task force (composed of members from Al-Tharwa Hospital,
MO, and others) to design the overall training program and the national
action plan, and will coordinate the activities of six additional technical
assistance specialists who will provide training in their areas of expertise -
finance and accounting, strategic planning, materials management, nursing
administration, maintenance, and records administration.



- 47 -
Page 3 of 5
The composition of the technical assistance team and a schedule of their
activities and visits are summarized in the following tables.
Table 12b-1
Healthcare Management Development
Technical Assistance Categories and Estimated Person Weeks
TA CODE     SPECIALIST CATEGORY                  PERSON WEEKS
A         Hospital/Health Administration             9
B         Management Trainer                         9
C         Health Nanag. Educator                    10
D         Financial Manager                          4
E         Strategic Planner                          4
F         Materials Management                       4
G         Nursing Administration                     4
H         Maintenance Management                     4
I         Records Administration                     4
TOTAL PERSON WEEKS                        52 PW
Table 12b-2
Health Management Development
Schedule of Technical Assistance Visits
TRIP #        TA CODE      PRINCIPAL TASK           DURATION    PERSONWEEKS
1 June 91     A, B & C     Program Design            3 weeks       9
2 Oct 91      A, B & C     General Training          2 weeks       6
3 Feb 92      A & B        Review & Training         2 weeks       4
C            Design Nat. Act. Plan    3 weeks        3
4 June 92     D, E, F,
C, H & I     Specialty Training        2 weeks      12
5 Oct 92      D, E, F,
G, H & I     Specialty Training        2 weeks      12
6 Feb 93      A, B & C     Follow-up                 2 weeks       6
TOTAL PERSON WEEKS                     52 PW



- 48 -
Amnex 12
Page 4 of 5
The technical assistance team will work with a locally appointed task force to
develop and coordinate the programs described in Components (a) and (b),
below.
(a) Hospital Management Training
Technical assistance would be provided to Al-Thawra Hospital to help
strengthen its capabilities as a national center for health management
training. Al-Thawra is a 520 bed tertiary hospital, operated as a semi-
autonomous public institution, under a board of trustees chaired by the
Minister of Health. It has been officially designated YAR's university
medical teaching hospital. It maintains a large outpatient and emergency
service and has made a strong institutional commitment to primary health care.
Recently, Al-Thawra started a pilot project vhere it supervises two smaller
rural hospitals, in Mitna and Sadda, which in turn supervise several health
centers and primary health care units.
The technical assistance team would work with a "Task Force on Management
Development," appointed by Al-Thawrats administration, to design and
coordinate a program to address the training needs of the Hospital's
management staff. Areas to be addressed would include: general
administration, strategic planning, financial management and accounting,
management information systems and records administration, nursing
administration, personnel management, materials management, and maintenance
management. During its ivitial visit, the TA Team would identify the specific
training needs to be addressed and would design the training programs, and the
sequence of topics, to be followed in later visits.
Approximately 60 managers, including 10 selected from hospitals other than Al-
Thawra, would be trained over a two year period. Participants would be
selected from various hospital departments, including physicians with
managerial responsibilities. As Al-Thawra's managers complete their training,
and become more proficient in their areas of expertise, Al-Thawra Hospital
would become a training center for additional management personnel drawn from
other hospitals and facilities throughout the public health system.
(b) National Action Plan for Management Development
The technical assistance team, working with a locally appointed task force,
would also develop a national action plan for strengthening hospital and
health management throughout YAR's public health system. Over the course of
three visits, the TA Team would study the current level of management practice
in the country, determine the qualifications and quantity of hospital and
health administrators needed, and design appropriate programs (an action plan)
to address those needs at the national level. The feasibility of establishing
a graduate-level program in health management within the country would be
specifically studied.



- 49 -
Anmex 12
Page 5 of 5
FELLOWSHIPS IN HOSPITAL AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
(Parallel USAID Financing)
The MOH is striving to increase the availability of skills managers who can
provide the leadership and direction needed in a decentralized system. There
are complex policy and financial issues involved in directing a growing health
care system, the MOH needs trained personnel who are able to introduce and
supervise the increasingly sophisticated management support systems that will
be required in the future. As management leaders are prepared, they will need
to train and supervise other employees within the system, increasing the
managerial capabilities of those working at every level of the organization.
The goal of the program would be to provide graduate training in hospital and
health administration for candidates selected from the public health sector by
the Ministry of Health. The program would provide up to fifteen person-years
of academic education, with a maximum of three years for any one student.
Candidates would be placed in graduate programs in the United States, leading
to a masters degree in health administration or its equivalent. Each
candidate would be required to be academically qualified at the baccalaureate
level, to have exhibited leadership potential, and to have English language
capabilities adequate to complete graduate level course work at an American
university.
For candidates otherwise qualified, tutoring in English may be provided for a
period of up to one year.
At least two of the program candidates would be nominated by Al-Thawra
Hospital, with the approval of MOB, to assist Al-Thawra in becoming a national
training center in hospital and health systems management. The other
candidates would be nominated by the Ministry of Health from among its various
departments and facilities.



Annex 13
50                                Page-I of 3
----------- - --------
Jr ----------------                                 -
-- - - - - - - --*                - - - - - - - ---   - J-
---  -------- --- ----------
--------  -- ---.------
__ _   _  __   _   ___        _   __   _  _   _        I
:Z   -- -   --   -   -
11131_________                                  _________ __
i~~~~~~~i *                        H_______________
li      --------    -             ----
i3 _ C-177 -   --------- __ I
U a- . -
, .   C
S .  -                                  
*  S                          
- -    -  - -   -  - -  -   -  - -  -   - -  -   -
*  om~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
___ _  _i_   _
1;                                                   J                                    
==_s,=_= I= =======  =======_-
________ ~    ~      ~     ~      111 ___________
g    ___   ______  ____
.__ __ ___   __   ___    __   ___    __    __



51                      Annex 13
Pag. 2 of 3
1 .-- ----------- 
____------------ --
-        a--      - ----- --
- 1   -        ---      ---
--- -----____
g Xs ------- ---- 
-       - C-    -
m E1 x---------- -
--3!* 2    X_ __ _    __*   
____    ______
Xi     _ ___   _ ____
pi_ _ __ _          _ __ _ _
s                   -
T I . nI
llIX 
. .r 1S          .s
. 'OS            la 
-~ s ]ZI6 



IL~~~~~ 
- - - - - - - - - -
Ia  .
F                                                 S 
--       --      --                  -        --
F~~~~~~                                                  A
I                                            S- -          -      - --
-- -               --- -               -
- -   - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - -~~~~~~~~ =5I..,
FI    -S- -               --      -
1----------
C JO E                                  - - - - - - - - - -~ - - - - 
I XMW                                         Zs~~~II     K
3  '         _    ____              _____    
c ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~~ , _                  _       ___ __               ____        ___
Cl~~~~~~~~~                                       ~~~~__ ______  -. ........... ____



- 53 -
Annex 14
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
HEALTM SECTOR DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Istlated Schedulo of Disbursements
(in US$ Millions)
ACCUMULATED    UNDISBURSED
DISBURSEMENT     DISBURSEKENT      BALANCES
FISCAL  YEAR/  ---------         .......        .......
SEMESTER    Amount       X    Amount    X    Amount   X
FT      1991
1       0.1 (1)  0.7Z      0.1   0.7Z    14.9   99.31
2       0.5 (2)  3.31    0.6   4.01    14.4  96.01
FY      1992
..... ............ .
1       0.7       4.71     1.3   8.71    13.7   91.31
2        1.9     12.71    3.2  21.31    11.8   78.71
FY      1993
=.. ... ......
1        2.5     16.71     5.7  38.01    9.3   62.01
2        2.7      18.01    8.4  56.0X      6.6  44.01
FY      1994
1        2.7      18.01    11.1  74.01     3.9   26.01
2        2.1     14.01    13.2  88.01    1.8   12.01
FT      1995
1       0.9       6.01    14.1  94.01      0.9   6.01
2       0.4       2.71   14.5  96.71    0.5    3.31
FY      1996
.. ......... _
1       0.3       2.01   14.8  98.71    0.2    1.31
2       0.1       0.71    14.9  99.3X    0.1   0.71
FT      1997
1       0.1       0.71    15.0  100.01     0.0    O.O0
CLOSING DATE: December 31, 1996
(1) PPF for Project Start Up
(2) Special Account Deposit



- 54 -                            9nrex 15
YEMEN ARAB REBUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SELECTED DOCIMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
A. Documents Related to the Sector and to the Project
1.  The Third Five-year Plan, 1987-91, Prime Hinister's Office. Central
Planning Organization, Yemen Arab Republic
2.   Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Memorandum, 1985, Yemen Arab
Republic.
3.   Tripartite Review of the Primary Health Care Programme in Yemen Arab
Republic, Ministry of Health, 1985.
4.   Report of the Joint Government/WHO Programme Review, February -
March, 1987.
5.  Yemen Arab Republic Population Assistance Programme, 1987-1991,
Faysal Abdel-Gadir, UNFPA, Sana'a, 1987.
6.   Population Strategy Paper (IDA White Cover Draft), Turkiz Gokol-
Kline, Consultant, Washington, D.C., 1987.
7.  Yemen Family Planning Association: Its Leading Role in Family
Planning; Projects in the Three-Year Plan, 1988-90, "20 September
Journal", Sana'a, July, 1989.
8.  World Food Programme, Yemen Arab Republic, Sana'a, 1988.
9.   Expanded Programme on Immunization, Mid-Year Report, MOH/UNICEF,
1989.
10.   Tihama Primary Health Care Project and the Pharmaceutical Supply
System, USAID, J. Bates et al, 1983.
B. Working PaDers
11.   Draft Proposals for the Second Health Project, Ministry of Health,
July, 1989.
12.   Health Project (Second Phase) Development Committee, Draft Proposals.
13.   Curriculum of Bio-Medical Technicians Training Programme, Health
Manpower Institute, Sana'a, 1989.
14.   List of Available Catalogs and Manuals of Medical Equipment.
15.   Hospital Administration Development Plan, 1990-91, Al-Thawra Hospital
Board, November, 1989.
16.   Health Directorate Organization in MOH Organizational Chart, Ministry
of Health, 1986.
17.   Maintenance and Repair of Medical Equipment, Present Status and
Proposals for Development in the Yemen Arab Republic, Bastiaan
Remmelzwaal, WHO, Sana'a, October, 1989.
18.   Third Five Year Plan, 1987-91, Directorate General of Planning,
Statistics and Follow-up, Ministry of Health, Sana'a, August, 1987.
19.   Final Statement on the National Seminar on Health Policies and
Planning, Ministry of Health, June, 1989.



