Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2151 YEM
                (Health Sector Development Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 6, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2151 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
      (b)   "PMO" means the Project Management Office established
within MOH pursuant to Ministerial Directive No. 2074 dated Novem-
ber 11, 1989;
      (c)   "HMI" means the Health Manpower Institute of MOH;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated February 10, 1990 and February 14, 1990
between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eleven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  (SDR
11,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of
June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
Page  3
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the pur-
poses of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2000 and ending May 1, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, public health and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
Page  4
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accord-
ance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than four months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
Page  5
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that evidence satisfactory to the Association
shall have been provided that the Borrower has acquired land for
maintenance workshops for medical equipment and pharmaceutical
stores to be constructed under Part A (1) of the Project and that
such land is available for purposes related to the Project.
      Section 5.02. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  CENPLAN                         2266 CENPLAN YE
                  Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                  By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  6
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ R. K. Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works                   6,800,000          70%
(2)  Equipment,              3,100,000          100% of foreign
     furniture,                                 expenditures,
     materials                                  100% of local
     and buses                                  expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Training and              900,000          100% of foreign
     Consultants'                               expenditures and
     Services                                   90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Refunding of              100,000          Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated               800,000
                            __________
         TOTAL              11,700,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
increasing the quality and effectiveness of health care services,
extending the administration of the public health sector to under-
Page  7
served communities and improving the administration and management
of the health care sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Association and the Borrower may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:     Health Care Administration
(1)   Construction of approximately nine maintenance workshops for
medical equipment and pharmaceutical stores, and provision of
necessary equipment, furniture and office materials for these
facilities.
(2)   Strengthening of MOH operations in general administration,
accounting, budgeting and statistics through in-service training
programs.
(3)   Strengthening of MOH operations in information management,
computer training, secretariat and archives through in-service
training programs.
(4)   Strengthening of MOH operations in maintenance of medical
equipment, medical supplies management and food program supervision
through in-service training programs conducted by HMI and provision
by HMI of training for bio-medical technicians.
(5)   Provision of spare parts for medical equipment for health
sector facilities.
Part B:     Training of Health Care Professionals
(1)   Construction of three regional HMI schools in Dhamar, Ibb and
Sa'ada for training of nurses, midwives, and provision of training
materials, equipment, furniture, buses and office materials for
these facilities.
(2)   Expansion of the central HMI school in Sana'a for training in
midwifery, environmental health and pharmaceutical sciences, and
provision of training materials, equipment, furniture and buses for
this facility.
(3)    Rehabilitation of civil works at the HMI health manpower
school in Taiz.
(4)   Curriculum upgrading for nursing and medical technician train-
ing, and provision of training materials and training equipment for
HMI health manpower schools.
Part C:     Hospital Management
(1)   Strengthening the capabilities of the Al-Thawra Hospital as a
center for health management training through design of a training
program for hospital management, clinical services management and
referrals, planning, management information systems, materials and
supplies management, maintenance, medical records, and nursing
administration.
(2)   Construction and equipping of a maternal and child health
emergency unit and blood bank at Al-Thawra Hospital.
(3)   Development of a national action plan for strengthening
hospital and health management throughout the public health system.
(4)   Preinvestment study for a suitable future health project and
for coordination and development of the health sector.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures con-
sistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages each estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in Republic of
Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local competitive bidding:
      Contracts for civil works under Part A (1) and Part B (2) of
the Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $600,000,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    International Shopping:
      Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Local Shopping:
      Contracts for items estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $600,000, may be awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
4.    UNICEF:
      Equipment, training and laboratory materials and furniture for
the HMI schools under Part B (1) and Part B (2) of the Project,
which the Association agrees are standard items from the UNIPAC
Catalog, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be
procured through UNICEF in accordance with UNICEF's applicable
procedures.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and with respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
Page  9
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to the first contract for works estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 2 (a) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
      (c)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceeding subparagraph (a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs
3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (c) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A (2),
A (3), A (4), B (4) and Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The General Director of the Project shall be responsible to
the Minister of Health and his Deputies with such responsibilities
and powers as the Association shall consider to be necessary or
desirable for the proper execution and supervision of the Project.
The General Director shall be responsible, in particular, for
monitoring and coordinating all Project activities, preparing
reports on implementation issues, maintaining accounts of the
Project, assessing the efficiency of technical assistance, and shall
coordinate Project-related activities.
2.    For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMO
established within MOH with organization, facilities, staffing and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall cause MOH to establish as a selection
criteria for Bio-Medical Technician training the requirement that
candidates have successfully completed the Secondary Technical
School level.
4.    The Borrower shall by December 31 of each year or such later
date as the Association may agree, ensure that annual budgetary
allocations agreed with the Association and required for the
maintenance of medical equipment and project facilities during the
following year are made.
Page  10
5.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1991 cause MOH to furnish
to the Association for its review and comments, a training program
for hospital management under Part C (1) of the Project. Thereafter,
the Borrower shall cause MOH to implement such training program,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
6.    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, cause MOH to appoint not
less than thirty instructors to the regional HMI schools in Dhamar,
Ibb and Sa'ada for training of nurses and midwives.
7.    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, cause MOH to furnish to
the Association the action plan under Part C (3) of the Project.
Promptly upon completion of such plan, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Association thereon. Thereafter, the Borrower shall
cause MOH to carry out, on the basis of such exchange of views, the
first phase of a national action plan for strengthening hospital and
health management.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and
3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to US$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
Page  11
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, the Association shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  12
