The World 8an'k
iOR OPpjuL UsE ONrLY
RepottN0 10968
PROJ_CT CT02PLETIV REpoR
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOJRI - ACRICUTUL   CREDIA
(LOAN 2865-CRUD) T pR~OJECT
JULtY 28, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No: 10968         Type(PCR)  Cov.F
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RICE, E.B./ X31755 /  T90oE q/ OEDD1
Date Ent. : 19920724        E;y: MAA
Agriculture  pera tOn   Dvtlo
outrYdDePRartmen t    I  L~
Mldde  Eat  an  Norh  Af icaRgin
douent 
-~~~~fii1d             eWtddsduinadmIVb



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
At Appraisal (Nov./Dec. 1986)        US$1 = TD 0.87fTD I = US$1.15
Implementation Average (19&8-1991)   US$1 = TD 0.88/TD 1 = US$1.14
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL     -  Pret 6 I'Ajustement du secteur agricole (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan)
BCT      -  Banque centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BNA      -  Banque nationale agricole (National Bank of Agriculture)
BNDA    -  Banque nationale de d6veloppement agricole (National Bank for Agricultural Development)
BNT      -  Banque nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CSA      -  Cooperative de service agricole (Service Cooperative)
EEC/EIB  -  Communaut6 6conomique europeenne/Banque europdenne d'investissement (European
Economic Community/European Investment Bank)
FIDA/IFAD - Fonds international de ddveloppement agricole (International Fund for Agricultural
Development)
FNG      -  Fonds national de garantie (National Guarantee Fund)
FOSDA   -  Fonds spdcial de d6veloppement agricole (Special Fund for Agricultural Development)
FOSEP   -  Fonds special d'encouragement de la p6che (Special Fund for Fisheries Development)
MOA      -  Ministare de l'agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MOF      -  Ministbre des finances (Ministry of Finance)
MOPDR   -  Minist6re du plan et du d6veloppement r6gional (Ministry of Planning and Regional
Development)
OMV      -  Office de mise en valeur (Irrigation Development Agency)
ONP      -  Office national des peches (National Fisheries Agency)
SCMA    -  Soci!td de caution mutuelle agricole (Agricultural Mutual Guarantee Society)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFKXAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasnghh D.CQ 2o433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on TUNISIA - Fourth
Agricultural Credit Proiect (Loan 2865-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tunisia: Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 2865-TUN)" prepared by the Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I Tbb document ha * restreited dbsdb*uton ad may be and by rtdpanb on I. the perfenmum of teir
| Om  dulle&Its contets may not otberw be disoused without World Bak authorUen.  |



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIt
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2865-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
Preface    S        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Summary l
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .      1
1  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
2.  Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .     2
4.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . .     3
Design        .    .   &*                               3
Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations . . . . . .     4
5.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up . . . . . .     5
Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Implementation  ..................                      5
On-Lending Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Institutional Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
Project Costs and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . .     7
6. Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
Progress on Agricultural Credit Policy and
Institutional Reforms . . . . . . . . . .   . . ...  .  8
Financial Performance o  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Loan Recovery . o . . . . . . . . o . . . . . . . .    11
7.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
8. Const.lting Services . . . . . . . . . o o . . . . o .    12
9. Project Documentation and Data  o . . . . . . . . . .    12
10. Bank Performance  . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
11. Borrower and Guarantor's Performance  . o o . . . a .    12
12. Project Relationship  . . . . o o . . . a . . . o . .    13
13. Lessons Learned..................                        13
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .    15
1. Overview of the Project o 6.. . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
2.  Project Development and Implementation  . . . . . . .    17
3. World Bank Performance during the Project . . . . . .    25
4* Conclusion  . . . .    . . . o    o .  o . . . . . .  a    27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfor'mance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Paae No.
ANNEXES:
I.     Project  Cost    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
II.     Lending by Year . .. .......... ... ....                    29
III.     Disbursement by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Disbursement by Category  .o. . .  *   .. . . .. .. .o.  30
IV.     BRA Training Budget . . . . . a . . . . . . . . * . . . .    31
V.       Agricultural Credit Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
VI.     Recovery Rates by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION (tables)  . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
1.       Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
2.       Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
3.       Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . .    35
3(a)o    Comparison between Appraisal and Actual
Disbursements by Category of Disbursements . . . . . .    36
3(b).    BRA's Project Related Subloans Commitments  . . . . . .    37
BNA's Project Related Subloans Disbursements . . . . .    37
3(c).    BNA's Project Related Subloans at Year-end and
Cumulative  .  .  . . .   .    . .   .   .   .   a .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   38
3(d).    Project Lending Program:
Medium- and Long-Term Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
4(a).    Project Implementation - Key Performance Indicators:
BNA's Loan Recovery 1987-91 for Agricultural Lending
and Risk Assumed .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .    39
4(b).    Financial Ratios  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .    39
5(a).    Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
5(b).    Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
6.       Status of Covenants . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ..  .   41
7(a).    Use of Bank Resources: A. Staff Inputs . . . .  . . . .     42
7(b).    Use of Bank Resources: B. Missions . . . . . . . . . . .    43
8(a).    BRA's Financial Position, Summary of Balance Sheet
1987-1991 as of December 31  . . . . . . .  . . . . .    44
8(b).    BRA's Financial Position, Income Statements, 1987-1991
as of December 31  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
Map IBRD 149211



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2865-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 2865-TUN) for which a loan equivalent to US$30 million to
the National Bank of Tunisia-/ (BNT, the Borrower) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Tunisia, was approved on July 7, 1987. The legal documents were
signed on July 22, 1987 and the loan became effective on January 22, 1988. The
original closing date was December 31, 1991. The loan was fully disbursed and
closed on November 19, 1991, six weeks ahead of schedule.
The Project Completion Report was jointly prepared by the Agricultural
Operations Division for the Maghreb of the Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started following a mission to Tunisia in
February 1992.   Parts I and III were prepared on the basis of information
available in the Division's and the Bank's central files. The main sources of
information were: the appraisal report No. 6622-TUN, dated June 1, 1987; the Loan
Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the borrower;
internal Bank memoranda; and consultation with implementation officials and staff
during the completion mlssion. This report was also based on the borrower's
Project Completion Report dated February 20, 1992 (Part II).
In October 1989, BNT (Bauque nationale de Tunslie - the borrower), which Is a major commercal
bank, merged with BNDA (Banque nationale de ddveloppement agricole - a development bank with no
branch network, which benefitted from the support of the EEC and EIB) and became Banque nationale
agricole (BRA). In this text, BNT and BNA. are used interchangeably, referring to BUT before merger
in 1989 and BRA after the merger.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2865-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The main objectives of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project in
Tunisia were to promote development of a financially sound rural credit system
and to finance credit to the agriculture sector in response to market demand and
in support of the Government's medium-term adjustment program (1987-1991)
formulated in connection with the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL -
Loan 2754-TUN). The Project aimed to: (a) encourage the Banque nationale de
Tunisie (BNT) and the banking sector to increase their roles in mobilizing
resources and in financing agricultural activities by addressing sectoral issues
such as on-lending interest rates; (b) restructure the complex institutional and
credit systems; (c) improve the financial viability of agricultural credit
operations and harmonize credit terms and conditions; (d) assist Government and
BNT in their efforts to develop private investment in the sector; and (e) promote
savings schemes tied to eligibility for credit (3.01).
lmglementation Experience
2.        During implementation, good progress was made on both BRA's (BNT: see
Preface, footnote -1) credit program and the policy and institutional reforms to
which the Government and BRA had agreed. The project started off well with the
creation of the agricultural credit reform committee immediately after loan
effectiveness, and the loan was fully disbursed on a timely basis. The loan was
closed on November 19, 1991, six weeks ahead of the original closing date (paras.
5.01 and 5.03).
3.        Except for a reduced pace of lending in 1988 and 1989 due to two
consecutive droughts, BNA's lending to farmers was on appraisal targets
throughout the life of the project, and the number of small-scale farmers reached
exceeded appraisal estimates by 76 percent (increased demand for small loans
after the drought, and reduced Government funding from other programs). For
cooperatives and agro-industries the disbursements remained on target throughout
the project's duration, and for fisheries, demand exceeded appraisal estimates
(para. 5.04).



- iv -
4.        The implementation of the institutional component was difficult due to
the political sensitivity attached to agricultural credit interest rates in
Tunisia, the complexity of existing credit systems, the merging of BNT/BNDA in
October 1989, and the negative impact of drought on loan recoveries. At the' time
of the merger, BNA was faced with three important tasks: reorganization of the
new bank on a decentralized basisl/ to reach more efficiently a large numbbr of
farmers and rural clients, integration and harmonization of the activitie, and
accounts of the two banks, and preparation of a new lending program for the
future.  A major step was taken in July 1990 when an agreement was reached
between the Government, BRA, and international donors on the responsibility of
the banking sector (and not the Government) for granting credit to farmers and
managing risk. This resulted in a gradual shift in the decision-making process
for Government-supported agricultural credit for small-scale farmers froim the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to BRA, which in turn opened the door to a complete
restructuring and reorganization of the merged bank. However, this consolidation
work is far from completed. The merger itself is not sufficient to permit the
new BNA to fully assume, in an accountable manner (i.e., free from Government
intervention), its lead role as the rural bank in a gradually liberalized
financial sector (paras. 5.05 and 5.06).
5.        Training activities progressed well during project implementation but
need to be actively pursued in the future and to be conceptually sharpened, using
a long-term global  approach and a strategic plan.    Improvements  in the
computerization of BHA activities and its management information system (MIS)
started well and made overall good progress. With the current reorganization of
BNA, these will need further improvements (para. 5.07).
Results
6.        The overall results of the Project, in terms of achieving its main
policy reforms and investment objectives,   :e satisfactory, particularly if
compared to the previous three credit operations in Tunisia. Still, some of the
reform objectives, for example, greater fungibility of funds, including
harmonization of terms and conditions, recovery performance, and BRA
reorganization have not been fully achieved during the short implementation
period. Physical targets envisaged at appraisal were largely achieved: namely,
disbursement for on-lending, the installation of computer facilities at
headquarters and in regional offices and branch networks, a computerized MIS with
an improved accounting system, and staff training. Regarding policy reforms, the
two major achievements are: (a) bringing interest rates charged to farmers closer
to market rates by gradually narrowing the gap between the prevailing rates on
agricultural loans and market rates; and (b) reducing the budgetary allocations
to the Government-supported credit fund (FOSDA)l' beyond project objectives as
covenanted in the Loan Agreement. Despite the results achieved on interest rate
1/ In 1987 BNT had 91 branches, and by the end of 1991 BNA baa 126 branches.
21 Special Fund for Agricultural Development, created in 1963 and funded through Government
budget allocations.



v -
reforms, however, scope remains for further improvements to make agricultural
credit in Tunisia a financially viable activity. As expected initially, the
fungibility of funds and harmonization of terms and conditions were not fully
achieved during the project period due to the Government's reluctance to make a
clear-cut decision to transfer to BRA the responsibility for managing all credit
programs, whatever their source of funds (paras. 6.01 to 6.06). The recovery
performance (average rate of 78 percent) is mixed at BNA. After two consecutive
droughts, accumulated arrears remain a problem including for the IBRD credit
programs. Recent measures have been taken to improve the situation (paras. 6.08
to 6.10).
7.        BRA's overall operating results remain positive, though the bank's
profitability and financial performance continue to be adversely affected by
losses on agricultural credit activities.  These losses are fully covered by
BNA's overall profits on other activities. This means that BRA continues to
cross-subsidize its farm credit activities but the project had a limited negative
impact on cross-subsidization as resources used under Loan 2865-TUN represent
only 3 percent of BRA total outstanding portfolio. After a deteriorating trend
between 1987-1990, the overall financial results and structure of BNA have shown
an improvement since 1991 (para. 6.08).
Sustainability
8.        The benefits of the project from the investments at BNA's client level
(farmers, agro-industries, fishermen) are good except in the rain-fed farming
areas badly stricken by the drought. Institutional and financial improvements
at the BNA level through increased interest rates, recovery discipline (a good
trend), and BHA reorganization on a decentralized basis will better ensure the
long-term sustainability of BNA as a profitable institution in a gradually
liberalized financial sector. Agricultural credit operations, however, are still
not a profitable activity and are financially sustainable only because they are
handled by a well diversified, deposit-based commercial bank. Financing small-
scale farmers is a high-risk, high-cost activity which needs further productivity
improvements and some Government support, for climatic risks in particular, to
make it a more sustainable activity in the future.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.        The Project has helped promote development of a financially sounder
rural credit system which needs to be further incorporated into a gradually
liberalized financial sector.  The institutional changes initiated under the
project are still fragile. In particular, there is scope for (a) consolidating
and expanding the agricultural credit and rural savings systems in Tunisia;
(b) developing further the institutional capability of BRA to respond to market
demand in a competitive environment; and (c) diversifying credit operations into
private rural non-farm activities. Consequently, there is a need to deepen the
institutional reforms and to strengthen BNA's capacity to assume its enhanced
role.



- vi -
10.       The main lessons learned from this project can be summarized as
followos
(a)       the importance of addressing the issue of crop insurance/calamity fund
schemes to secure the banking system and farmers when serious droughts
or other natural disasters occur, as one did during project
implementation. It is esaential to include such schemes as priority
components in the design of rural finance projects in a country like
Tunisia where climatic conditions pose major risksJ
(b)       the rural bank (RNA) should be made fully responsible for all credit
decisions, without Government interference, and should assume 100
percent of the banking risk on all of its agricultural loans to its
clientele, including small-scale farmers, whatever the source of funds
(funds are fungible). This would improve resource mobilization and
recovery discipline and make the bank's operations more viable and
sustainable. In Tunisia, such accountability by the rural bank would
also help to better integrate the formal rural financial system with
competitive banking activities, including harmonization of lending
terms and conditions and enhanced financial discipline; and
(c)       the  need  for more  time  to  fully  implement  major  policy  and
institutional reforms such as those underway for rural finance in
Tunisia because of the long-term nature of institution-building
objectives. Cross-conditionality on credit and interest rate reforms,
encompassing this project and two ASALs as well as continuity of
dialogue between the Borrower/Guarantor and the Bank on these
sensitive issues, has been helpful in achieving major progress.
11.       These lessons have already been used to make further progress on
interest rate reforms and financial liberalization under the Economic and
Financial Reforms Support Loan approved by the Bank at the end of 1991. The
lessons will also be used to consolidate current progress on financial
intermediation and to deepen the institutional reforms of BNA, the lead bank for
agriculture in Tunisia.   Reforms include BRA's on-going reorganization and
decentralization, especially in its agricultural credit department, staff
training programs, fungible credit schemes for small-scale farmers under
simplified terms and conditions and linked to savings mobilization, clientele
diversification actions (including women), and the development of a viable crop
insurance/calamity fund scheme. Plans for further progress along these lines are
incorporated in the proposed National Rural Finance Project under preparation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2865-TUN)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name                    : Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
Loan Number             : 2865-TIJN
RVP Unit                : MENA Region
Country                 : Republic of Tunisia
Sector                  : Agriculture
Sub-sector              : Agricultural Credit
Borrower                : National Bank of Tunisia'/
Guarantor               s Republic of Tunisia
2. Project Background
2.01      During the past decade, the major objectives of the Tunisian Government
in the agricultural sector, as expressed in the Seventh Development Plan (1987-
91), were to treat agriculture as a priority sector and to emphasize greater
.&nvolvement of private sector financing in agriculture.   To achieve these
objectives, the Government, with the Bank's assistance, developed an Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (1987-91) to support the implementation of the Seventh
Plan. The overall objective of the sector adjustment program was to maintain the
growth rate in agriculture in order to reduce the sector's trade deficit while
staying within overall macroeconomic constraints on public spending. To achieve
this objective, the program provided for short- and medium-term actions tot (a)
improve the prices and incentives framework; (b) re-orient the public investment
program in agriculture toward low-cost, high-priority projects; (c) strengthen
agricultural support services and transfer some of them to the private sector;
(d) improve the management of land, forests, and fisheries; and (e) build up
institutional capacity for sector-performance monitoring and policy analysis.
The First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-I - Loan "754-TUN) was made
to support this medium-term program. The key medium-term agricultural-credit
objective for the Government was to encourage the banking sector to increase its
role in mobilizing resources, including savings/deposits; in providing credit to
farmers, particularly small- and medium-scale farmers; and in ensuring the
financial viability of credit operations. It was within this context that the
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project was formulated. The Project was designed to
address these objectives by providing credit and supporting the 1987-91
agricultural credit reform programs in harmony with ASAL-I (and, eventually,
ASAL-II).
AI BNT before merger with BNDA in 1989 and BNA after the merger.



-2-
2.02      Since 1967, the Bank has supported lending in Tunisia for agricu1ltural
development through four loans and a credit (prior to Loan 2865-TUN) to the
Banque nationale de Tunisie (BNT). The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project was
the Bank's fourth lending operation in Tunisia to assist the country's
agricultural development by providing credit to farmers, cooperatives, agro-
industries, and fishermen. The first two projects aimed at addressing specific
credit needs of farmers, with no explicit pursuit of either sectoral or broad-
based institutional objectives.   The Third Project (Loan 1885-TUN) aimed at
increasing agricultural production and incomes of small- and medium-scale farmers
as well as improving the system of agricultural credit distribution by
strengthening the agricultural credit operations of the borrower, BNT. Although
the Third Agricultural Credit project focused on improving credit operations and
loan recovery performance, much remained to be done to strengthen BNT's financial
and institutional viability. The previous projects suffered from a number of
institutional and policy constraints that made on-lending Bank funds by BNT
inefficient and cumbersome.   In particular,  competition from other credit
programs, inadequate interest spreads, arrears, and varying terms and conditions
of various credit programs were still a problem. In the first three projects,
disbursements were slower than expected due to competition from more attractive
credit  programs.    For  small-  and medium-  scale  farmers,  the  principal
beneficiaries of the Bank-financed subloans, the Government also had a program
of credit - FOSDA/FOSEPI' - which had interest rates more attractive than those
for Bank subloans.  Similarly, there was a proliferation of different credit
programs with varying terms and conditions as well as different levels of risk
to be borne by BNT. This, in turn, affected the recovery performance of these
loans.3' The Fourth Project specifically addressed these problems.
3. Prolect Objectives and Description
3.01      The main objectives of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project were to
promote development of a financially sound rural credit system and to finance
credit to agriculture in support of the Government's Medium-Term Adjustment
Program (1987-91) formulated in connection with the ASAL-I.  This was to be
achieved by improving agricultural credit policy, effecting institutionst
adjustments, and increasing the finauLcial viability of agricultural credit
operations.   Through provision of investment credit to private farmers, the
project was to contribute to increased agricultural production and rural
employment.  Through major policy and institutional reforms, the project was to
support the Government's medium-term adjustment effort to establish a policy and
institutional framework within which to promote development of a financially
sound rural credit system. In particular, the project aimed to:
21 Special Fund for Agricultural Development and Special Fund for Fisheries Development. These
were Government funds administered by BNT, providing loans at subsidized rates and grants.
31 For esample, on loans from its own resources for which BNT bore 100 percent of the risk,
repayment was 90X between 1985-87, uhile FOSDA loans, on which BNT was not responsible for
granting credit and did not bear any risk, had a repayment rate of only 48 percent.



- 3 -
(a)       address sectoral issues related to on-lending interest rates designed
to support BNT and the banking sector in increasing their role in
mobilizing resources and in financing agriculture;
(b)       restructure the complex institutional system by which agricultural
credit is made available and improve small- and medium-scale farmers'
access to credit;
(c)       introduce new approaches to harmonize credit terms and conditions and
to improve the financial viability of agricultural credit operations;
(d)       give more emphasis to private investment in the agricultural sector to
meet the Government's objective of raising investment in the sector;
and
(e)       promote savings schemes tied to eligibility for credit.
3.02      Proiect Description.  To achieve the above objectives, the Project
supported a three-year time slice of BNT's activities in the areas of agricultur-
al credit operations and institutional development. The Project, as agreed upon
at negotiations, comprised the following credit and institutional components:
(a)       BNT Credit Proeram.  The credit component was to finance
(i) on-farm investments by small-, medium- and large-scale private
farmers with special focus on increasing the resources lent to the
first two groups; (ii) investments by production and service
cooperatives; (iii) agricultural and agro-industry investments carried
out by small- and medium-scale enterprises; and (iv) investments in
equipment and major repairs by credit-worthy fishermen who already had
fishing boats and good repayment records.
(b)       Institutional Development Component.  This included:
(i) Management Information System (MIS) software, equipment and
training needed to modernize and strengthen, on a decentralized basis,
BNT's organizational structure, planning process, management control,
accounting systems, and loan monitoring system; and (ii) the
:trengthening of agricultural credit policy coordination among the
Ministries of Planning and of Finance; the Ministry of Agriculture/
Agricultural Production; the Central Bank (BCT); and, in particular,
BNT and BNDA. About twelve man-months of consultancy services were
provided to help set up the computerized systems and assist BNT's
qualified trainers to implement the training programs.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.01      Design.  The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project was developed, to a
large extent, in light of the implementation problems experienced in the then-
ongoing Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) and the previous credit
lines (para. 2.02). The Project was prepared at a critical time (the Government's
medium-term adjustment program for the agricultural sector was being designed,
and the Third Agricultural Credit Project was coming to completion) and was



-4-
expected to play an important role in furthering sectoral policy objectives. The
Project was designed to be fully consistent with the Government's medium-term
program, already agreed upon by the Bank and the Government under the ASAL-I.
The Bank's involvement was seen as catalytic in achieving project objectives more
rapidly.   As a result, one important risk identified by the Bank - the
Government's possible lack of commitment to going ahead with the proposed reforms
- was greatly reduced.   Both the Project concept and the design were thus
appropriate and .imely and were acceptable to all parties involved.
4.02      Preparation. A22raisal and Negotiations.  The Project was identified
jointly by BNT and the Bank in 1985. It was prepared by BNT and the Government
from October 1985 to July 1986 in consultation with other commercial banks and
with the assistance of consultants for certain technical aspects.   The Bank
assisted in the preparation effort through its supervision missions of the Third
Agricultural Credit Project and appraisal of the ASAL-I. The main issues that
surfaced during preparation and that were discussed during appraisal were: (a)
insufficient intermediation spreads on agricultural credit operations that
discouraged banks from financing agricultural activities and prevented many
farmers from gaining access to credit; (b) the negative effect of subsidized
credit programs (FOSDA and other special funds) on resource mobilization, sub-
loan recoveries, financial viability of agricultural credit operations, and the
Government budget; and (c) the proliferation of agricultural credit programs,
each applying different conditions, using different appraisal criteria, and
requiring costly and complex lending procedures.
4.03      The negotiation process did not pose any difficulty because sensitive
policy reform issues were approached realistically. Four main conditions of
Board presentation - namely, revision of interest rates charged to farmers,
reduction in Government budgetary allocations to the credit part of FOSDA
subsidized credit programs, fungibility of funds, and the Government's policy
letter on these issues - were discussed and negotiated, and agreement was reached
on all of these conditions. The Government confirmed in writing its agreement
to the long-term objective of fully covering the financial costs and reasonable
operating and risk costs of agricultural lending by 1991 and agreed to increase
agricultural interest rates by not less than 0.5 percent for medium-term and 0.25
percent for short-term rates by August 30, 1987, which the Bank found acceptable.
As a safeguard, this was stipulated as a condition of loan effectiveness. The
Government was also to revise agricultural interest rates between 1988 and 1991
to bring them in line with market rates by 1991.
4.04      The Government also agreed to the Bank's proposal to reduce its
budgetary allocations to FOSDA credit by 15 percent in 1989 and 1990 and to
achieve fungibility of funds by the end of 1989. An important condition of the
Board presentation was to incorporate proposals on all project-related issues in
a Government policy letter on agricultural credit which would address project
proposals on interest rates, spreads, FOSDA, recoveries, fungibility of funds,
risks, guarantees, and bad debt provision.  This condition was met when the
Government sent to the Bank in Nay 1987 a satisfactory policy letter on
agricultural credit incorporating the specific proposals on the policy reforms
to be executed by BNT under the Project and confirming that terms, conditions,



and methods of credit delivery would be fully harmonized by December 31, 1989,
with all future ENT agricultural credit programs merged into a single fund
managed by BNT.
5.  Project Implementation
5.01      Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-Up.  Although Loan 2865-TUN was
approved on July 7, 1987 and signed on July 22, 1987, it did not become effective
until January 22, 1988.  Nonetheless, implementation of the project started
immediately after loan effectiveness. The original date of effectiveness was
October 22, 1987. However, the Government requested a three-month extension to
allow sufficient time for the Parliament to ratify the legal documents and to
prepare  and  transmit  the  legal  opinion.    The  only major  condition  of
effectiveness, namely, that agricultural interest rates be raised to 7 percent
on short-term loans and 7.5 percent on medium-term loans, was met on August 31,
1987. The Project was fully disbursed and closed on November 19, 1991, six weeks
ahead of the original closing date. For the first time, an agricultural credit
project in Tunisia was closed within the stipulated time. The previous three
credit projects had had problems and delays in implementation and had closed from
almost two-and-a-half to three years after the original closing date, although
none of them had included a policy reform package.
5.02      Prolect Risks.  Of all the potential risks, such as weather and lack
of commitment, that were identified by the appraisal mission, only the severe
droughts during 1988 and 1989 proved to be a significant factor impacting on the
Project.
5.03      ImRlementation.  The Project started off well with the creation of the
Agricultural Credit Reforms Committee, which was in charge of reviewing, among
other things, the harmonization of terms and conditions of agricultural credit
and progress on eliminating the subsidy system. The implementation of the on-
lending component, however, slowed down in 1988 and 1989 due to the droughts.
The two consecutive droughts reduced demand for agricultural investments and
services; affected agricultural and livestock production throughout the country;
and, as a result, lowered capacity utilization and farmers' incomeq.  These
drought effects had serious repercussions on loan collection, necessitating
Government action to substantially reschedule farmers' debt payments.   The
implementation' of the institutional component was difficult due to the political
sensitivity attached to agricultural interest rates in Tunisia, the complexity
of the existing credit system, and the merger of BNT/BNDA (not covenanted in the
Loan Agreement, though suggested in the Staff Appraisal Report) in October 1989.
The disbursements were on schedule as of March 1988, went down to 68 percent of
appraisal estimates in June 1989, then improved to 74 percent of estimates in
December 1989, and were on target at 100 percent at the time of loan closing in
November 1991 (Part III, Table 3).
5.04      On-Lending Component. The BNT credit component proceeded well overall
and was fully disbursed on a timely basis. Most sub-lending for the on-farm
investments proceeded at a reasonable rate and was on appraisal targets, despite
some slowdown during 1988-89 due to the two consecutive droughts. Because of



these droughts, the borrower was more active in the agro-industry and fishery
sectors. The fisheries sub-component did quite well, exceeding estimates by 82
percent, due to: (a) a boom in fishing boat construction in Sfax; (b) the
privatization of "Office national des p8ches" (ONP); and (c) the need for
increasing major repairs to be done on the old fishing fleet. Table 3a, Part III
shows amount of loans disbursed as compared to those estimated at appraisal in
each category. The main activities financed were agricultural and irrigation
equipment for small-, medium-, and large-scale farmers and cooperatives; olive
oil-refineries; refrigeration for agro-industries; and fishing equipment,
trawlers, and repairs for fishermen. Under the fishery sub-component, the Bank
agreed to finance trawlers not envisaged at appraisal to help privatization of
the ONP. The project reached, through BNA, 7,290 beneficiaries, including 6,010
small- and medium-scale farmers. By the time the loan was closed in November
1991, the follo'ding numbers of beneficiaries had been reached, as compared to
those estimated at appraisal:
Table 1: Number of Beneficiaries
Actual      Appraisal   Actual
Estimates   as a Z of
estimate
Small & medium-size farms      6010          3400          176
Large farms                     843           615          137
Production & service
Cooperatives                    209            160         130
Agro-industries                  36             25         144
Fisheries                       192           640           30
TOTAL                          7290          4840          150
5.05      Institutional  Component.      As  mentioned  in  para.  5.03,  the
implementation of the institutional component went well in spite of the political
sensitivity attached to agricultural credit interest rates in Tunisia, the
complexity of existing credit systems, and the negative impact of two droughts
on credit demand and loan recoveries. Also, BNT and BNDA merged in October 1989,
during the project implementation. This led to a change of top management twice
in a period of six months. One of the difficulties associated with the merger
was the integration of BNDA activities into the new bank since BNDA had no branch
network and suffered from non-performing loans.
5.06      The MIS  sub-component  of the Project started on time,  and BNA
established its computer managing committee in September 1987, as stipulated in
the Loan Agreement. The purchase of micro-computers to fully equip BNT branches
was approved in May 1988. The procurement of mainframe computer equipment for
BNT headquarters was delayed by the merger of BNT and BNDA and by the late
transfer of the merged bank to the new headquarters, built by BNT (not financed
under the Project), which finally took place in April 1990. A computerized
system to link the branches to the headquarters' mainframe was installed and
became partially operational in 1991.  BNA improved its accessibility to its
clientele by increasing its network from 91 branches in 1987 to 126 by the end



of 1991 and its staff from 2137 to 2522 during the same period. BNA has also
started to decentralize its operations by creating 13 "Directions r6gionales" to
which authority has been delegated for loan approval up to TD 120,000 (equivalent
to US$123,600).   This decentralization process will speed up BNA's credit
operations at branch network level. Improvements in the computerization of BNT
activities and MIS made overall good progress throughout the project'. life, but
with the current reorganization of BNA, further improvements are needed.
5.07      Training programs were prepared in 1988 and revised every year.  The
training activities made good progress during project implementation but need to
be actively pursued and conceptually sharpened using a long-term global approach
and a strategic plan.  The new areas for priority training include strategic
planning, branch network management, clientele development, marketing, and
financial management and control.
5.08      Project Costs and Disbursements.  Total project costs were estimated
at US$59.0 million equivalent, of which IBRD was to contribute US$30.0 million
equivalent, or approximately 51 percent. The equivalent to US$12.0 million, or
20 percent, was to come from the sub-borrowers; and the equivalent to US$12.7
million, or 22 percent, was to come from BNT's own resources, augmented by
Government special resources (US$4.3 million equivalent, or 7 percent). Actual
costs incurred were US$59.0 million equivalent, 100 percent of estimates.
Disbursements against IBRD loan proceeds amounted to US$30.0 million equivalent,
100 percent of the loan amount.   The actual costs included US$2.2 million
equivalent financed by an EEC grant after the BNT/BNDA merger, which had not been
envisaged at appraisal. The estimated and actual costs of the Project are given
in Table 5a in Part III. The actual costs in each category were mostly the same
as had been estimated at the time of appraisal. The Project did not suffer from
any major cost overrun either in local currency or foreign exchange.
6. Prolect Results
6.01      The overall results of the project, in terms of achieving its main
policy reforms and investment objectives, are satisfactory, particularly if
compared to the previous three credit operations in Tunisia. Physical targets
envisaged at appraisal were largely achieved - namely, disbursement for on-
lending, the installation of computer facilities at headquarters and regional
branches, and training of BNA staff.   Similarly, a computerized management
information system (MIS) with an improved accounting system was designed,
hardware was purchased, and the system was made operational. BNA branches were
linked to the regions and the headquarters.   By category of beneficiaries,
performance has been very good. The project anticipated an equivalent of US$8.0
million of the total credits to be channeled to 3400 small- and medium-scale
farmers. The actual allocation resulted in US$8.1 million equivalent (i.e., 101
percent of estimates) being channeled to this group. The number of small-scale
farmers reached, however, exceeded appraisal estimates by 76 percent, a
substantial achievement in improving these farmers' access to credit.  BNA's
success with small-scale farmers was partly due to farmers' increased needs for
small loans after two difficult years of drought and low income and partly due
to the phasing out of Government resources to finance these needs.



6.02      Progress on Agricultural Credit Policy and Institutional Reforms. The
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project incorporated important elements of policy and
institutional conditionality. On policy reforms, this included interest rate
adjustment to market rates, phasing out Government subsidized and directed credit
(FOSDA), and achieving fungibility of funds to finance agricultural credit needs
for a better response to market demand. On the institutional side, the project
incorporated the establishment of an efficient organization and MIS for BNT; the
full-fledged adoption of effective computerization at the branch network,
regional office, and headquarters levels; reform of the credit decision process
by phasing out Government interference in credit decisions for loans to small-
scale farmers and by transferring the risk to BNT; and training of staff. In
addition, as a result of the merger of BNT/BNDA, BRA had to tackle the difficult
task of complete reorganization of the merged bank while at the same time moving
to its new headquarters in 1990.
6.03      The progress made on interest rates is commendable, considering the
high political sensitivity attached to agricultural credit interest rates in
Tunisia. According to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, the Guarantor and the
Borrower had to adjust interest rates so that, in 1991, the Borrower would charge
agricultural credit interest rates equal to market rates. The interest rates
were increased by 0.5 percent for medium-term and 0.25 percent for short-term
rates in August 1987, as a condition of loan effectiveness. These rates were
further adjusted by 1 percent for medium- (8.5 percent) and short-term (8
percent) rates in August 1990. No upward adjustment of interest rates was done
in 1988 and 1989 due to the two consecutive droughts as well as to the downward
trend of the average money market rate from 10.5 percent at the end of 1987 to
8.7 percent by the end of 1988.   The Bank agreed to this decision of the
Government, keeping in view the bad weather and overall interest rate situation.
The Government increased interest rates further by 1 percent for small-, medium-
and large-scale farmers in December 1991.  The following Table 2 shows the
progress made on preferential interest rates since 1987:
Table 2: Interest Rates (in percentages)
Before      August
Negotiations   1987         1988  1989  1990  1991
Market Rates              10.5       10.5         8.7   9.5   11.4  11.7
PreferentialAgricultural
Credit Rates'!
Short-term              6.75       7           7     7      8     9
Medium-term             7          7.5         7.5   7.5    8      9
Long-term               7          8           8     8      8.5   9.5
Differential               3.5        2.5         0.7   1.5    2.9   2.2
Between Market            to         to          to    to     to    to
Rates and Average         4.25       3.5         1.7   2.5    3.4   2.7
Preferential Rates
/1 Essentially for credit to small- and medium-scale farmers, although many commercial farmers
manage to have access to these low rates under the Government subsidized schemes, which are presently
being phased out. These rates do not apply to agro-industries, for which market rate is applicable
and other banks compete with BNR.



-9
6.04      Having reached a minimum of 9.0 percent, preferential interest rates
in Tunisia are positive in real terms.   BHA average cost of resources for
agricultural credit (less than 62) remained stable during the project period,
which means that return on resources used increased. However, the margin is not
yet sufficient to cover operating costs and risks associated with the
agricultural lending. There still is room for improvement and a need to reduce
the gap between the market interest rates and rates charged for agricultural
credit.   Interest rate reforms and financial liberalization issues are now
addressed under the Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan (3424-TUN)
approved by the Bank at the end of 1991. Action agreed under this Support Loan
include minimizing administrative constraints on interest rates, and an
additional two point increase on the rates of preferential credits.
6.05      Major progress was also made in phasing out Government subsidized FOSDA
credit allocations, which were reduced by 15 percent in 1988 and another 15
percent in 1989 as agreed under the project in a consistent manner with ASAL-I
and ASAL-II policy frameworks. Since 1990, the budget allocations to the credit
part of FOSDA have been eliminated. The achievement on this has been beyond
project objectives, though with fragile results.  The financing of agricultural
lending operations will depend on BHA's ability to mobilize resources.
6.06      Some of the long-term reform objectives, such as the fungibility of
funds, harmonization of terms and conditions, recovery performance, and BNA's
reorganization, are far from being fully achieved. Full realization of these
reforms will require more time than the short project implementation period. In
particular, the Goveranent needs to make a decision on merging all Government-
supported agricultural credit programs into a single fund at BNA. There were
about 45 special credit programs with different appraisal criteria and lending
procedures at the start of project. These multiple funding sources, each with
its own particular conditions, make the management of agricultural credit
difficult and have created confusion among borrowers. Many of these special
programs are currently being phased out or gradually transferred to BHA, but some
are still managed by the Government, essentially by the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), and are administered by BNA for disbursement and recovery purposes only.
Consolidation of all these special programs into a single agricultural fund
remains an important prerequisite for future development of the agricultural
credit system. This will allow BNA to properly allocate credit funds in response
to the demand for credit and in line with its institutional objectives and its
credit guidelines and harmonized terms and conditions. The July 1990 agreement
rea^hed between the Government, BRA, and international donors has reinstated the
need to harmonize the terms and conditions for agricultural credit under the full
responsibility (without Government interference) of BNA and other banks. BHA
should assume 100 percent of the banking risk on all of its agricultural loans
to its clientele, including small-scale farmers, whatever the source of funds
(funds are fungible). This would improve resource mobilization and recovery
discipline and make the bank's operations more viable and sustainable.   In
Tunisia, such full risk assumption by BRA would also help to better integrate the
formal rural financial system with competitive banking activities, including
harmonization of lending terms and conditions.



- 10 -
6.07      Similarly, with regard to BNA's reorganization, progress has been slow.
At the time of the merger, BNA was faced with three important tasks: (i)
reorganization of the new bank on a decentralized basis to reach more efficiently
a large number of farmers and rural clients; (ii) integration and harmonization
of the activities and accounts of the two banks; and (iii) preparation of a new
lending program for the future. With the assistance of management consultants,
a reorganization plan of all BNA departments was prepared and submitted to the
Bank. Following the merger, and after the July 1990 agreement, the role of BNA
was considerably enhanced. These developments resulted in a gradual shift in the
decision-making process for Government-supported agricultural credit for small-
scale farmers from the MOA to BNA. This consolidation work is far from being
completed, however, and the BNA reorganization plan has not become operational
yet. Completion of this consolidation and reorganization will be one of the main
institutional objectives of the follow-up Rural Finance project.
6.08      Financial Performance.  The financial results and structure of BNA,
after a deteriorating trend between 1987-1990, have slightly improved since 1991.
BNA's overall operating results remain positive, though the bank's profitability
and financial performance continue to be adversely affected by losses on
agricultural  credit  activities.    The  profits  earned  on  BNA's  commercial
transactions fully cover these losses on its agricultural operations. This means
that BNA, despite increases on interest rates charged to farmers, has not yet
been able to break even on farm credit activities and  continues to cross-
subsidize them.4/  BNA's financial performance is also affected by: (a) the
consequences of the BNT/BNDA merger - non-performing loans of BNDA; (b) the
negative impact of two consecutive droughts on recoveries; (c) increased
competition in the banking sector for access to market resources and savings
resulting in an increase of the average cost of funds; and (d) overall portfolio
quality. To reverse this trend, measures have been taken in addition to a new
increase in preferential interest rates at the end of 1991. These measures are:
(a) BNA's decision, in January 1992, to launch a program to improve recoveries
by creating decentralized recovery teams with adequate incentives; (b) the
strengthening of BNA's equity base through a new capital increase, from TD 33
million to TD 55 million at the end of 1991, which became effective March 1,
1992, a move to improve BNA financial structure as measured by the ratio of total
equity to risk-weighted assets from 5.5 percent to about 6 percent, but still not
a satisfactory level   accordiig to the standards (8 percent) of the Basel
Committee of Banking Supervision5/; (c) an improved policy for provisioning
since 1991; and (d) a systematic policy for maximizing profits through increased
fees charged to clients, in addition to interest rates, to cover operating costs.
41 Resources used under Loan 2865-TUN represent only 3 percent of BNA total outstanding portfolio
(short- and medium-term) at the end of 1991. Corresponding credit operations have consequently a
limited negative impact on the overall profitability of BNA. The project, however, although
small compared to BNA overall activities, had a strong positive impact on interest rate reforms.
I/ In 1987, after the doubling of its capital in 1986, BNT had a solid 9.8X Cooke ratio. After
two years of drought and accumulated arrears, and a merger, BNA needs to improve its equity to
risk assets ratio.



- 11 -
6.09      Loan Recovery.  When droughts had a negative impact on recoveries, the
Government decided to take substantial measures urging BHA to reschedule farmers'
debt.    This,  together  with  previous  rescheduling,  almost  doubled  BNT's
outstanding portfolio to agriculture. Though recovery performance was closely
monitored during 1988-89, the overall situation did not improve except
artificially through debt rescheduling. BNT had to mobilize new resources in the
financial markets to cushion the impact of the drought on its liquidity since the
existing Calamity Fund in Tunisia is totally inoperational. In addition, the
National Guarantee Fund, established in 1981 to cover outstanding principal in
the loan portfolio of banks lending to small-scale agriculture, is inadequately
funded and in any case does not cover banks for default resulting from natural
calamities. The Bank prepared a p-eliminary report issued in March 1991 on how
to set up a viable calamity fund as part of a major study on Small Farmers'
Potential and Prospects: A Technical Studs (Report No. 9323-TUN). During its
various supervision missions, the Bank also recommended reorganization of the
National Guarantee Fund by merging it with the existing Calamity Fund with a view
to developing a sound insurance scheme to cover climatic risk. According to the
proposed scheme, the premium payments would be shared by the sub-borrowers, the
banks, and the Government. This scheme is not yet established.
6.10      The recovery performance is linked directly to the risk borne by BRA
as shown in Table 4(a) in Part III of this report. The recovery performance of
the loans made by BRA under its sole responsibility was 92 percent during the
project period, whereas the overall recovery rate for all agricultural lines
combined was 78 percent."' The accumulated arrears, which were TD 20 million
in 1986, reached TD 135 million by June 1991. The Bank has consistently asked
BNA and the Government to improve the recovery rate.  The recovery analysis
clearly demonstrates that when BRA is given sole responsibility for credit
decisions (approvals and recoveries) without Government interference, and when
BNA assumes 100 percent of the banking risk, recovery performance is good. One
of the conclusions of the Project, thus, is that unless BRA is made responsible
for all credit decisions and assumes full responsibility for credit distribution
and risk, this chronic problem of recovery will not be solved.
7. Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.01      The benefits of the project from the investments at the BNA client
level (farmers, agro-industries, fishermen) are evident except in the rain-fed
farming areas badly stricken by the drought.   Institutional and financial
improvements at the BRA level through increased interest rates, recovery
discipline (a good trend), and BRA reorganization on a decentralized basis will
better ensure the long-term sustainability of BRA as a profitable institution in
a gradually liberalizing financial sector.   Agricultural credit operations,
6/ Recovery on IBRD credit programs (past loans and Loan 2865-TUN) is in the range of 66 to 74Z
over the life of this project with no clearly improving trend yet. This issue will be addressed
under the follow-up project. To enable BNA to take 1OOZ of the banking risk on all its farm
clients, Tunisia needs to develop a sound insurance scheme to cover climatic risk. This is
particularly important when BNA is financing small-scale rain-fed farming as this was the case
under all IBRD loans to BNT/BNA. Recovery on government subsidized credit programs is 50S, which
is unsatisfactory.



- 12 -
however, are still not a profitable activity and are financially sustainable only
because they are handled by a well diversified, deposit-based commercial bank.
Financing small-scale farmers is a high-risk and high-cost activity on account
of the collateral issue, a poor land tenure system, drought, etc.  Further
productivity improvements and some government support for climatic risko, in
particular, are required if small-scale farmer financing is to become a more
sustainable activity in the future.
8. Consulting Services
8.01      Consultant services were hired for computerization activities at the
beginning of the Project period. However, the remaining funds allocated for
these services were not used since grant money of US$200,000 was received from
EEC in 1990/91 to hire consultants to carry out a study on the reorganization of
the BNA. The performance of the consultants was satisfactory. The BNA, howaver,
has not yet adopted the consultants' recommendations on reorganization
(para. 6.07).
9. Proiect Documentation and Data
9.01      The Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement, and
the Government Policy letter were important reference documents which proved
useful both to the borrower and to the Bank supervision missions, and all of
these documents were helpful in the writing of this report. The quality of the
project data submitted by the borrower was good overall but deteriorated after
the BNT/BNDA merger which resulted in some good BNT staff in charge of project
monitoring and evaluation/reporting being redeployed to other functions. BRA
regularly sent quarterly and annual reports to the Bank which included data on
numbers and types of beneficiaries, amount of investment, and lending trends.
BNA also submitted audit reports to the Bank, maintaining a good track record
with regard to timeliness, quality of reports, and minimal audit qualifications.
10. Bank Performance
10.01     The Bank closely monitored the preparation phase of the project, and
the appraisal mission took place in November 1986. The Bank's supervision effort
was adequate, and good staff continuity persisted between missions, helping to
maintain a constructive dialogue with the Government and BHA and to resolve
problems. Timely assistance was provided to the Government in the formulation
of new credit policies at the time of merger of BNT/BNDA.   The Bank acted
flexibly in 1988-89 in accepting the Government's decision to postpone increasing
interest rates, keeping in view the bad weather and the fact that market rates
went down during this period.
11. Borrower and Guarantor Performance
11.1      The overall performance of the borrower and guarantor was good.  The
project was implemented smoothly and with commitment to project objectives.
Important institutional changes occurred during project implementation, such as
the merger of BNT and BNDA into BRA. Although overall a positive step, this
merger led to two consecutive changes in top management and staff re-deployment



- 13 -
that delayed the implementation of some on-going institutional reforms (HIS,
headquarters computerization, fungibility of funds, monitoring and evaluation).
This delay could have been avoided had the merger been prepared in greater
technical detail by the local authorities. The merger, which was decided at the
highest Government level, showed clearly that BNDA was not financially viable for
the long term. BNA now has the potential to improve its management leadership
and needs to adequately train staff to perform its new functions.  Adequate
incentives still need to be provided to the staff for loan collection and savings
mobilization. The Agricultural Credit Department of BRA needs to be reorganized
and strengthened at the headquarters and branch network levels.
11.02     The compliance with covenants was mostly good (Part III, Table 6). On
interest rates, both the Guarantor (decision making) and the Borrower
(implementation) made substantial progress in complying with legal covenants.
The borrower also complied with audit covenants and submitted an annual analysis
of its credit operations, as expected. Covenants on MIS, establishing a computer
managing committee, and preparing an annual training program were also fulfilled.
BHA followed Bank's procurement guidelines as stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
The Bank guidelines were followed for the computer equipment for the branch
network and headquarters except that, at the last minute, the Bank was informed
that the headquarters equipment would be procured and financed under EEC grant
money made available to BRA after the merger, a decision the Bank accepted. Thus
far, however, the Government has not been fully successful in achieving all the
reforms incorporated in the Policy Letter (para. 6.06). The Government achieved,
well beyond project objectives, the reduction of budget allocations to FOSDA
credit, but it did not achieve fully the objective of increased fungibility of
funds, starting with the harmonization of credit terms and conditions.
12. Proiect Relationship
12.01     The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower (and the Guarantor)
was excellent and remained cordial throughout the life of the Project.  The
continuity of dialogue from appraisal to completion (including during the
supervision process) between the Bank and the Tunisians has been instrumental in
building trust and in achieving major progress.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01     The key lessons of the project, for both the Bank and the Borrower, can
be summarized as follows.
(a)       It is important to address the issue of crop insurance/calamity fund
schemes to secure the banking system and farmers when serious droughts
or other natural disasters occur, as happened during project
implementation. It is therefore essential to include such schemes as
priority components in the design of rural finance projects in
countries like Tunisia where climatic conditions pose major risks.
(b)       Tunisia needs a rural bank (BRA) to be made fully responsible for all
credit decisions without Government interference and to assume 100
percent of the banking risk on all of its agricultural loans to its



- 14 -
clientele, including small-scale farmers, whatever the source of funds
(funds are fungible). This would improve resource mobilization and
recovery discipline and make the bank's operations more viable and
sustainable. A fully responsible rural bank would also help to better
integrate the formal rural financial system with competitive banking
activities, including harmonization of lending terms and conditions
and enhanced financial discipline.
(c)       There is a need for more time to fully implement such major policy and
institutional reforms as those underway for rural finance in Tunisia
because of the long-term nature of institution building objectives.
Cross-conditionality on credit- and interest-rate reforms between'this
project and two ASALs as well as continuity of dialogue between the
borrower and the Bank on these sensitive issues have been helpful in
achieving major progreas.
13.02     These lessons have already been used to make further progress on
interest-rate reforms and financial liberalization under the Economic and
Financial Reforms Support Loan approved by the Bank at the end of 1991. The
lessons will also be used to consolidate current progress on financial
intermediation and to deepen the institutional reforms of BNA, the lead bank for
agriculture in Tunisia. These reforms include BNA's on-going reorganization and
decentralization, especially in its agricultural credit department, staff
training programs, fungible credit schemes for small-scale farmers under
simplified terms and conditions and linked to savings mobilization, clientele
diversification actions (including women), and crop insurance/calamity fund
schemes.  Progress on financial intermediation and institutional reforms are
objectives of the proposed National Rural Finance project under preparation.



- 15 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(REPORT ROM sNA OF MARCH 2, 1992)
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICOLE
Directorate General
Tunis, March 2, 1992
Hr. Odin Knudsen
Chief, Agriculture Operations Division
Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Reference: Loan No. 2865-TUN
Subject:    Proiect Completion Report
Dear Sir:
Following the closing of the above-referenced loan, we have the
pleasure of sending you herewith the completion report.
We would also take this opportunity to inform you that we gave two
copies of the report to Mr. Dussert during his completion mission at BNA from
February 17-20, 1992.
Very truly yours,
/a/ Mokhtar Atallah
Deputy Director General



- 16 -
1. Overview of the Prolect
A.  T'troduction
Following the completion of the Third Agricultural Credit Project in
1986, BNA and the Government of Tunisia requested the World Bank to assist in the
financing of a Fourth Agricultural Credit Project under a medium-term adjustment
program for the agriculture sector, in accordance with the objectives of the
Seventh Plan covering the period of the project, i.e. from 1987 to 1991.
That program aims essentially at according priority to private investment
and encou:aging the banking sector to participate in financing of agricultural
activities.
B. The Project
(a)    PreDaration and ar2raisal
The project was identified in 1985 jointly by BRA and the Bank. It was
prepared in 1986 by BNA and the Government, with the assistance of consultants
and the support of Bank supervision missions for the Third Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 1885-TUN).
The project was appraised in November 1986 by the consultants and a Bank
supervision mission. The Loan Agreement between BNA and the Bank was signed on
July 22, 1987 for US$30 million.
(b)    Project objectives
Following the previous credit lines and the sectoral adjustment program
for medium-term agricultural credit agreed upon between the Government and the
Bank, thn muain objectives of the project vere as follows:
-       Increase financial assistance to agriculture  in order to enhance
agricultural productivity and rural income;
-       Increase the mobilization of national resources;
-       Ensure the financial viability of credit operations.
In addition, the project was to help BNA:
-      Restructure the institutional system for granting agricultural credit
and facilitate access by small- and medium-scale farmers to credit;
-       Improve the situation of sources and uses of funds for financing
agriculture;
-      Develop long-term plans to strengthen its agricultural portfolio and
ensure that BNA continues to play the role of lead bank in the financing
of agriculture;
-       Extend  its  decentralization  efforts  to  its  agricultural  credit
operations;
-       Promote savings schemes tied to eligibility for bank credit;



- 17 -
-       Strengthen and improve its management information and data processing
system through the use of computers.
(c)    Proiect components
In order to enable BNA to achieve its objectives and improve the
financial performance of agricultural credit, two programs were planned under the
project, namelys
-      A credit program to finance:
*   small- and medium-scale farmers
*   large-scale farmers
*   production and services cooperatives
*   small- and medium-size agro-industrial enterprises
*   equipment and major repairs for fishing boats
-      A credit program for institution building, including:
*   the establishment of a management information and a computerized
data processing system
*   a personnel training program.
2.  Proiect Development and Implementation
A.  Proiect Development
In general, project performance was favorable relative to appraisal
projections regarding:
(a)    Duration
The completion dates for earlier agricultural credit lines experienced
delays ranging between two and three years.  The Fourth Ptoject is the only
credit operation to be completed before the scheduled date cr.! December 31, 1991,
despite a marked slowdown in lending activities in 1988 at&d 1989 due to the
drought, although the project had gotten off to a good start.   The credit
proceeds were effectively depleted on September 30, 1991, i.e., three months
early, and the last Bank disbursement was made on November !   1991, i.e., six
weeks ahead of the official closing date of the Bank loan.
(b)    Number of farms affected by the project
Under Part A of the project, the number of farmers revalving financing
far exceeded projections. Ultimately, there were 7,290 benefic-.arzies as against
the projected 4,840, i.e., an increase of 51 percent, primarily in the category
of small- and medium-scale farmers.
(c)    Volume of investments
The project cost was appraised at TD 51.3 million (equivalent to
US$59 million).
The baseline estimates were expressed in 1987 prices, with foreign
exchange representing some US$30 million.
The final cost was about TD 51 million, which is consistent with initial
projections.



- 18 -
(d)    Disbursements
Despite a good start, but abruptly slowed by the drought, real
disbursements were made over a period of less than four years, more than one year
ahead of the five-year period suggested by experience under the previous
agricultural projects.
Broken down by year, disbursements in 1991 alone accounted for more than
45 percent of the total.
This was due primarily to improved progress of the project in 1990 and
1991.
During that period, subloans increased considerably under the five
project components, primarily in the category of "fisheries."
B. Proiect Implementation
The project became effective on January 22, 1988, six months after the
signature of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and their ratification by Law No.
87-78 of November 26, 1987.
Project start-up was followed by an abrupt slowdown in implemen-tation,
particularly for several components, due essentially to problems of a short-term
nature (1988 drought followed by a second in 1989).
(a)     Small- and medium-scale farmers
This category, which had a rockier start-up than the others after the
drought during the 1987/88 crop year, also suffered from the relatively long time
it took the branch offices to process applications and shift responsibility for
them to central offices.
Only in 1988/89 did the number of subloans begin to rise steadily and at
a faster pace, but the total processed each year could have been higher if the
country had not been stricken once again by a drought in 1988/89.
The number of beneficiaries under the project nevertheless totaled 6,010
farmers, as against the 3,400 projected, i.e., an increase of 77 percent, thanks
to the good years in 1990 and 1991 and an upswing in demand in the wake of the
drought.
The number of loan applications to finance the purchase of irrigation
equipment and well construction far exceeded projections, due to climatic
vagaries that triggered heavy demand in that regard.
Financing was also provided in response to 1,496 applications for loans
to purchase minor agricultural equipment at relatively low cost.
A comparison of costs by type of investment shows an increase over
initial projections under three main headings involving infrastructure and
irrigation equipment, cattle- and sheep-raising, and agricultural equipment.
The amount allocated for this component was completely utilized.



- 19 _
(b)    Large-scale farmers
Regular sustained progress was made on this component from the start of
the project.
The number of farms covered by the project totaled 843, compared to the
615 initially projected, i.e., an increase of 37 percent, essentially in farm
mechanization and irrigation, which covered 444 and 224 beneficiaries
respectively, as compared to the 238 and 45 projected at appraisal.
However, the volume of investments (TD 11.9 million) was below
projections (TD 15 million), i.e., by 22.4 percent.
This was due essentially to:
-       an overestimation of the average cost per operation calculated initially
at TD 25,000, whereas the actual amount at the end of the project was
only TD 14,100;
-       credit opportunities offered by BNDA prior to its merger with BNT, which
had the effect of absorbing, at the expense of the project, several loan
applications from large-scale farmers, especially for integrated
projects.
Investments by type fall primarily into three categories, namely,
agricultural equipment, irrigation, and tree-planting, respectively representing
64Z, 18.7%, and 9.7% of investment costs under this component.
(c)    Cooperatives
Implementation of the programs under the Agricultural Production
Cooperatives (UCPs) was favorable at the start of the project, but flagged during
the last years.
Some loan applications were directed by the UCP Oversight Office (Bureau de
Contr8le) to the former BNDA for the financing of integrated projects.
For the Rural Development Associations (SCMVs) and service cooperatives,
financing was very limited, as only four subloans were made under the project for
a total of TD 278,000. Most applications were also channeled to the former BNDA
for financing under the special funds available to them.
However, despite these constraints, the results for the cooperative sector
exceeded projections in number and volume.
In fact, 209 subloans were made, for a total of TD 5.5 million, compared
to the 160 projected, for a total of TD 4.8 million.
Investments essentially involved agricultural equipment, for a total of
TD 4.66 million, compared to TD 4.3 million initially projected.
(d)    ARro-industries
The start-up of investments under this new category experienced
difficulties due to a lack of new investment niches during the early years of the



- 20 -
project. In fact, only three subloans were made during this period. It was not
until 1990 and 1991 that investment climbed satisfactorily.
Thirty-six subloans were made under this component for an overall
investment of TD 6.2 million, compared to the projected 25 loans for
TD 6.5 million.
An analysis of investments by type shows a predominance of demand in the
olive-growing sector and, to a lesser extent, in the cold-storage sector,
representing respectively 53 percent and 17 percent of the total cost of
investments.
Demand related to olive-growing rose in response to the incentives and
facilities granted by the Government for the modernization and expansion of old
refineries that had become obsolete and no longer met the country's needs.
(e)    Fisheries
Subloans under this heading were double the projections,  despite a
difficult start-up due essentially to problems with constituting guarantees, a
lack of down payments, and the selection of beneficiaries who met the technical
and financial criteria as well as the creditworthiness standards. BNDA's epecial
involvement on a priority basis in this sector, however, reduced the participation
of the commercial banking sector in the financing of fisheries during the project
period.
The cost* of investments was TD 11.1 million, compared to the
TD 5.7 million projected, i.e., an increase of 95 percent.
By contrast, the number of beneficiaries projected initially at 640 was
overestimated and in reality totaled only 192.
Performance with regard to the volume of investments was associated with
two main operations carried out during the project and not planned at the time of
appraisal, namely:
(i)  The privatization policy put into effect by ONP, resulting in the
purchase of its trawlers by private parties. Estimated subloans of
TD 4 million were made under the operation to 29 beneficiaries.
(ii) The financing of new trawlers for private shipowners. To respond
to the Government's priorities and objectives involving the
modernization of the fishing fleet, which had become obsolete, at
BNA's request, the World Bank also agreed to finance this operation.
The investments totaled more than TD 4 million, involving 23
shipowners.
C.      Institutional and Financial Performance
(a)     Institutional Rerformance
During project implementation, a number of measures were introduced on a
national scale to improve the agricultural credit system and the financial
viability of such operations.



- 21 -
(i) Measures taken:
The measures included:
-   The establishment of the Agricultural Credit Reform Committee
in early 1988, as envisaged in the Guarantee Agreement, to make
recommendations to the relevant authorities and to monitor the
implementation of agricultural credit policy reforms;
-   Following the 1987/88 and 1988/89 droughts, the Council of
Ministers on August 3, 1988 took the following measures:
*     the rescheduling over three years of short-term credit
for rain-fed cereals production and olive plantations;
*     the postponing of maturities on medium- and long-term
credit for rain-fed cereals, olive-growing, and stock-
raising;
*     the implementation of a special government program to
assist small-scale cereals producers.
Additional measures were also taken by the Government in 1989:
-   Cancellation of debts contracted by farmers prior to 1987 for
all credit with a principal of less than TD 1,000.   This
measure affected some 130,000 farmers;
-   Cancellation  of  debt  vis-&-vis  the  "Societe  tunisienne
d'4lectricit6 et du gaz" (STEG) contracted prior to 1987 by
farmers in joint interest associations (associations dWint6r8ts
collectifs -- AICs) in the Rouvernorats in the south;
-   Price  increases  for the production of milk,  fresh meat,
cottonseed, and olive oil.
(ii) Budget allocations
The Government's commitment to reducing budget allocations was
pursued regularly during the years of the project, in accordance
with the loan agreement and the medium-term adjustment program for
the agriculture sector.
FOSDA (Special Fund for Agricultural Development) (credit and
subsidies) allocations to BNA during that period were as follows:
Year            1987  1988  198   19   1991
Amount (ID million)  18.86  17.84  18.50  17.00    13.00 (11/30191)
The portion of the FOSDA allocations reserved for credit has been
virtually eliminated since 1990, the bulk of the annual allocation
being used for direct capital subsidies.
These measures aim to make the banking sector more accountable in
agricultural operations and to more effectively channel budget
resources to non-bankable, low income beneficiaries.



- 22 -
(iii) Funfibilitv of funds
The objectives concerning the fungibility of funds in the Fourth
Project essentially includes
-   harmonizing agricultural credit systems;
-   merging on a national scale all future BNA agricultural credit
programs, as well as funds flowing through FOSDA/FOSEP (Special
Fund for Fishery), into a single fund;
-   mobilization of new domestic and external bank resources.
Although progress was made in this regard, the problems of multiple and
competing lines of credit were not totally resolved, given the
ambiguity and diversity of credit procedures. Nevertheless, through
the intermediary of agricultural credit working groups, the Government
is determined to give priority to these objectivee, for which efforts
are well on their way but which require decision-making external to BNA
if they are ultimately to become a reality.
(iv) BNA training vrogram
To upgrade its personnel, BNA offers training programs each year.
Internships and seminars in Tunisia and abroad have been organized on
various topics, including agricultural and commercial activity and
diverse other banking operations.
Technical personnel in the branch offices in charge of agricultural
credit received training in 1988 and 1989 in the form of seminars on
the evaluation of credit applications.
DNA's training budgets have financed the following activities:
-   courses at the Professional Banking Training Center (Centre
Professionel de Formation Bancaire -- CPFB) and the Technical
Banking Institute (Institut Technique des Banques -- ITB), in
addition to accounting courses;
-   seminars in Tunisia and abroad;
-   hosting of trainees;
-   training of new recruitG;
-   internships and refresher courses;
-   training of future middle managers (cadres d'exploltatlon);
-   internal competitive examinations for higher-level staff and
agents;
-   introduction to computers for higher-level staff and agents;
-   training for senior managers.



- 23 -
(v)  Organization plan
After its merger with the former BNDA in October 1989 and the measures
taken by the Government in December 1989 to give new impetus to
agricultural credit on a decentralized basis, BNA launched an
organizational study enabling it to revitalize its offices and make
them homogeneous and effective. A new organization chart was prepared
and will probably be implemented in the first quarter of 1992.
The network of BNA branch offices and personnel spread with the opening
of 24 new branches between 1987 and 1991, for a total of 126 branches
and offices as of December 31, 1991. Personnel were increased from
2,137 to 2,522 during the same period.
In addition, with a view to strengthening the decentralization policy,
BNA gradually expanded the authority of the regional directors,
enabling them to grant agricultural loans up to a maximum of TD 120
million.
(vi) BNA computer olan
After having equipped its branches and central offices with computer
hardware and software in accordance with project projections, BHA
developed a computerization plan and began its implementation in the
branches and regional offices and at headquarters.
The main actions during the project can be summarized as follows:
-   installation of microcomputers for all branches, permitting the
computerization of accounting operations (all operations are
entered at the branch level and transmitted at the end of each day
to headquarters);
-   acquisition of new computer hardware:   two 9221 computers for
headquarters and 13 AS 400 minicomputers for the regions.
The two computers are already operational within the Computing
Activities Department. Porting of existing applications on the 4331
was done as a first step.
A study is now under way to rewrite certain applications and improve
others, in addition to the study on new systems for the computerization
of all bank operations.
The AS 400s are assigned to certain central departments and regional
offices.
A team is now studying the installment of these minicomputers in the
regional offices and preparing for the decentralization of certain
publishing operations.
Likewise, improvements were made to the branches' computer system:
-   computerization of the portfolio;



- 24 -
-   computerization of commitments by signature;
-   study on the decentralization of the agricultural credit process.
(b)    Financial performance
(i) Recovery
Despite the institutional development (described above), the recovery
situation is still disturbing.
A look at the situation over the last five years shows that the
droughts that wracked the country in 1987188 and 1088/89 had serious
repercussions on the repayment of agricultural credit. The average
recovery rate on November 30, 1991 was 74 percent for all funds
considered together, with a variation from 6 percent (IFAD-financed
Sidi Bouzid project) to 91 percent (BRA), depending on the nature of
the fund.
Consequently, the recovery situation during the project did not
improve, despite the decisions taken by the Government and the good
crop during the 1990/91 season.   In addition to the drought, the
following also contributed to the lack of progress in recovery
performance:
-   the accumulation of arrears from one year to another;
-   the plethora of lines of credit used with different selection
criteria, choice of beneficiaries, and methods of assessing needs
and covered risks;
-   the diversity of conditions imposed by certain donors and the
inadequate monitoring and recovery system;
-   a confusion among credit beneficiaries between aid to agriculture
and agricultural credit.
In addition, the efforts made by BRA to improve the recovery rate were
as follows:
-   delivery of new credit only upon the settlement of arrears;
-   withholding of arrears on all crop sales;
-   making farmers aware of the importance of paying their arrears in
the appropriate crop year;
-   transmission of overall risk statements to the branches and
regional offices for arrears monitoring;
-   transmission of notices and due date reminders to all debtors.
Finally, beginning in 1992, following two good harvests in Tunisia, BNA
decided to set up regional recovery teams with the necessary authority



- 25 -
and incentives to strengthen recovery efforts with the support of
government authorities at the highest level.
(ii) Aaricultural interest rates
The current preferential interest rates for agriculture still provide
insufficient return to cover the average cost of funds (which is on the
rise with the liberalization of the financial markets), operating
costs, and BNA's banking risks.
The objective in the Loan Agreement for the Fourth Project was to
narrow the gap, by the end of 1991, between preferential rates for
agricultural loans and the interest rate prevailing on the money
market, which was 11.8 percent at that time.
The agricultural interest rates, which before August 1987 were 6.75
percent for short-term loans and 7 percent for medium- and long-term
loans, were raised on three occasions during the project, reaching 9
percent in January 1992 for short- and medium-term loans and 9.5
percent for long-term loans.
The successive adjustments made to these rates slowed down in 1988 and
1989, following the droughts that wracked the country during that
period, and were accompanied by a decline in the money market rate.
The Tunisian authorities are determined to purs.,e the interest rate
adjustment policy with a view to attaining Loan Agreement objectives
and to bringing the policy into line with the current economic and
financial reform program.
3.     World Bank Performance During the Prolect
In order to assist BRA in carrying out the project under good conditions,
the Bank spared no effort in smoothing over certain difficulties that arose during
the project.
In this connection, various supervision missions were made to Tunisia by
Bank officials involved in the project to make contact with BHA and the various
ministries concerned to discuss and prepare action programs with BRA and the
Government and to monitor the project.
The following are among the main actions that can be credited to the
project:
(a)    Better conditions for subloans
Following the 1988 and 1989 droughts, and to assist project beneficiaries
in overcoming obstacles, at the request of BRA the Bank agreed to improve
the terms for agricultural loans to low-income small-scale farmers in
southern Tunisia and to lower the down-payment percentage temporarily to
5 percent  (instead of  10 percent).    This  operation  involved  2,000
beneficiaries. In addition, the down-payment percentage required for the



- 26 -
purchase of tractors and spare parts was brought into line with the
generally accepted average of 20 percent, instead of 30 percent minimum.
(b)    Trawler financina
As part of the privatization of ONP and modernization of the fishing fleet,
the Bank agreed to the financing of these two operations not initially
envisaged in the project as followss
-    the financing of ONP trawlers by private parties;
-    the financing of new trawlers, also by private parties; and
-    refinancing of nine agro-industrial projects.
In order to encourage BRA in its efforts to identify, select, and evaluate
bankable agro-industrial investments, which stagnated during the first years
of the project, the Bank agreed to attribute nine large operations
prefinanced by BHA to the project.
(c)    Institutional component
The Bank missions worked closely with the Government and BNA during the
project, making suggestions and recommendations concerning:
-    the vigorous pursuit of the agricultural credit policy reform program
to attain the objectives of fungibility of funds for financing
agriculture, simplification and harmonization of lending procedures,
and computerization of BNA's lending process;
-    reorganization or elimination of the current concept of "FOSDA credit"
in order to make BRA accountable for the entire credit process;
-    gradual adjustment of agricultural interest rates to the market rate
in order to improve BRA's financial margin for agriculture;
-    establishment of a durable system for covering banking risks with the
introduction of agricultural credit insurance and a review of the
current calamity fund (much remains to be done in this regard);
-    encouragements of BRA by the Government to increase its role in
mobilizing its resources and in financing agriculture;
-    preparation by BRA of the detailed 1992-96 agricultural credit program
with technical assistance in methodology from the Bank;
-    inclusion of the broad orientations of the agricultural credit policy
in the country's Eighth Economic and Social Development Plar.;
-    analysis of BNA's overall financial profitability, which has been
improving since 1991, and its agricultural credit operations (still



- 27 -
running in the red), as well as the monitoring and auditing during
the agreed period of the project.
4.      Conclusion
In general, the project achieved a maximum of the objectives regarding
investments, increases in production, and higher income for credit beneficiaries,
despite two difficult years of drought. Naturally, much remains to be done to
consolidate the results and improve BNA's efficiency in a financial market that
has become competitive and that requires agricultural credit to have its own
dynamism.
Project performance is due essentially tot
-       ongoing and regular monitoring by BRA through its supervision and
monitoring teams;
-       a major contribution by the Government following the decisions it made
in a timely fashion and conducive to the success of the project (FOSDA,
interest rates, support for institutional objectives, BNT/BNDA merger);
-       the decentralization policy for agricultural operations followed by BHA,
as BRA continues to grow stronger year after year;
-       improvement in BNA structures through computerization of BNA operations
and strengthening of its staff through adequate and continuing training
programs.
Moreover, in comparison to previous agricultural credit projects, the
project is distinguished by:
-       its implementation on schedule without any extension;
-       the large volume of loans made beyond the project, i.e., TD 3.4 million
on November 30, 1991, financed from BNA's own resources, following the
depletion of funds and closing of the IBRD line. This situation caused
an urgent need for financing of agricultural credit, prompting BRA to
establish a detailed program to obtain the necessary financing under new
agricultural credit lines.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
PROJECT COST
Unit = TD 1,000
Number of subloans                  Cost
Actual      Projected     Actual TD      Projected TD
I.     Part A of the Proiect
a-     Small- and medlum -scale farmers         6.010          3.400         14.              15.400
- Agrioulture equipment                  1,496                         1,579              520
- Irrigation equipment                   2,972                        8,625             7,950
- Well/tanklmotor housing                  696                        2,481             4,720
- Stable                                    32                           84               670
- Cattle                                   437                         1,482            1,150
- Sheep                                    200                          284               230
- Bee-raising                              117                          197
I  Forage production                                                                       60
- Planting                                  60                          114               100
b-    Large-scale farmers                         843           615          11,954           15.400
- Agricufture equipment                    444                         7,600           10,970
- Irrigation equipment                     150                         1,660              780
- WelVttankimctor housing                   74                          570               890
- Stable/hangar                             17                           78               990
- Cattle                                    19                           93             1,430
- Sheep                                     36                          309               240
- Forage production                          1                            2               100
- Bee-raising                                3                           15                 .
- Rabbit breeding                            1                            3                 .
- Planting                                  63                         1,150                *
- Integrated projects                       35                          474                 *
C .    Cooperatives                               209            160          5.496            4.800
- Agriculture equipment                    162                        4,570             4,300
- Irrigation equipment                      22                          313                 .
- WelVtanklmotor housing                     3                           17                 .
- Stable/hangar                              3                            5               500
- Cattle                                     3                          116                 .
-Sheep                                       8                           85                 .
- Planting                                   5                          119                 .
- Integrated projects                        3                          271
d-    Apro-industry                                26            25           6.240            6.500
- Civil works                                                          1,020            1,900
- Equipment                                                           4,880             4,300
- Working capital                                                       340               300
e -    Fisheries                                  192           640          11.127            5.700
- Miscellaneous equipment
for small-scae fishermen                105                         1,157         }
- Miscellaneous equipment                                                          }   5,700
for large-scale fishermen                35                         1,960
- ONP trawlers                             29                         4,027
- New trawlers                              23                        3,983
TOTAL PART A OF THE PROJECT              7.290          4.40         49.663            47.800
II.    Part B of the Proiect
- Software                                                           _1.498             3.500
GRAND TOTAL                                                          51,161            51,300



LENDING BY YEAR
j.......1987                1988                 1989                 1990        |       1991         [       TOTAL
CATEGORY   |    No. 1  Amount  [No.  [ Amount nt  No                 Amount       N            Amou            AoAmount
Small- and medium-      56          95     1,506      1,737     1,744      2,619    1,525       3,048    1,179       2,338    6,010        9,837
scale farmers
LIage-scale farmets    142        1,140     142       1,298      170       1,275      180       2,070      209       2,539     843         8,322
Cooperatives            79         932       56       1,127       17         160       22        625       35        1,114     209         3,958
Ago-industry             1         136                    -        2         168       25       3,181        8        883       36         4,369
Fisheries                 -                   9         228       31       1,128       80       1,696       72       4,797     192         7,849
TOTAL                  278       2,303    1,713       4,390    1,964       5,350    1,832      10,620   1 503       11,671  I729         34,334a)
(a)        The amounts beyMd the project (ID 273 million, equivalent to US$30 million) wer financed using BNA's own resourcs
M-



- 30 -
ANNEX III
DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
Unit = US$'000
Year  ~          Projected                                    Actual                  |
Yea    Amount       Cumulative         %           Amount        Cumulative        %      |
1988          5,000            5,000        16.7%         6,039            6,039       20 %
1989          7,000           12,000        40 %          6,853           11892       39.6%
1990          8,000           20,000        66.6%         4,467           16,359      54.5%
1991          7,000           27,000        90 %         13,641           30,000      100 %
1992          3,000           30,000       100 %              '
TOTAL         30C_00                                       30,000
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
Unit - US$'000
Category                                   Projacted          Actual              %
a - Small- and medium-scale                 8,000             8,090              + 1%
farmers
b - Large-scale farmers                     8,000             6,931              -13%
o - Cooperatives                            3,500              3,327             -5%
d - Agro-industry                           4,500              3,678             -18%
e - Fisheries                               3,500             6,370             +82%
f Computer hardware                         2,500              1,604             -36%
TOTAL                        30,000            30,000



BRA TRAIIING BUDGET
Activity                                 1987                        1988                      1989                       1990                        1991
No. |  Cost inTD          No.    Costin WM            No.j   CostinTD      No. Cr   inTDj                 No.ID
1. Cou.se                            183         115.741        195         130            172         183            195        178,943        213           113,635
- CPFB courses in Tunisia           159          94,738        165         100,762        147         151,798        166         136,SC4        170           55,430
- rI    oune - Paris                 21          20,463         27          29,575         22          30,683         24          41,644         36           56,735
- Evening course in                   3            540           3            540           3            540           5            735           7            1,470
accounting
2. Semnars                           801         33,127         942          38.632        546          27,791        170              7         275           4L26
- In-house                          731          19,152        836          18,068        454          11,340         87           1,993        124             240
- In Tunisia                         67          13,539         97          14,090         89          15,640         74          14,927        137           20,262
- Overseas                            3            436           9           6,474          3            811           9           2,197         14           20,754
3. Hostint of traines                 45           Z044          54           6.55          75          8.631                      3.968          466.040
4. Training of future                  8          15.211         30           8.770                         -           s          5713           11           4.871
middle manarers
S. Tsainina of nw                     32            897          63           1.936         SS           3.9C6         16            481          64             388
recruited azents
6. In-house assistance                18           1.753                                   175         27.424         125         24.378          88          Not yet
available
-Edito                                -               -                                   141          25,278        103         22,S94          68
-Off ceagnts                         18           1,753                                    34           2,146         22           1,784         20
7. Trainina Pnesonnel30                                                                      9         68.415           8         62.261           -
salaries
& Interashin. and
fesher cousrse                      4            512          10            448          13           2.373                                     - 
9. Introduction to                                                                         203         25421                                     119             776
comnters
TOTAL                              1,098        220,415        1,301       246,642       1,248        347,043         558        243,495         816       166,966(1)
(1)        Mhee figures are prawislowa, as other ependitures still need to be added.



AGRICULTURAL CREDIT RECOVERY
as of November 30, 1991
Funds                            % Risk      Utilized    Not Yet Due      Arfears    In Dispute      Past Due    Repayment    % of Repay.
BNT                                 100      444,916           51,552      30,618         3,586       393,364       359,160             91
SCM                                  0-5      28,829            1,230       11,762           27        27,599        15,810             57
IBRD/IDA                            100        5,397              10          773           120         5,387         4,494             83
IBRD 1340 TUN                     10-25        5,324             703        1,034           212         4,621         3,375             73
IBRD 1885 TUN                    40-100       29,729           3,797        8,896           901        25,932        16,135             62
IBRD 2865 RUN                                 26,978           19,961       3,768            33         7,017         3,216             46
Farm roads                       25-100          401               8           91             2          393           300              76
Fssheries 270 TUN                    50          877              19          383           183          858           292              34
Second Fisheries Project 1746        25        9,539           2,562        6,406             -         6,977          571               8
OMVVM/OMIVAN                      10-25         1,917            111          297            6          1,806         1,503             83
FSA                                  25        7,118             756          655           296         6,362         5,411             85
Bei Nebhana                          25          808               -            -          808           808              -              -
FMO                                   -        2,450           1,343          442                       1,107          665              60
BNDA grant and loan              25-100          173              78           16            9            95            70              74
FCM grant and loans                               44              44                   -                    -             -              -
FOSDA                                 -      162,618          62,313       45,988         6,203       100,305        48,114             48
FOSEP                                 -       37,520           9,378       10,969         3,514        28,142        13,659             49
PAM                                   -        3,108             146          302          367          2,962         2,293             77
FADES                                 -          609             238          158             -          371           213              57
FSPA                                               3               2            1             -            1              -              -
FSDR MAHDIA                                    2,904           2,252          471           21           652           160              25
PANO                                           3,162           2,127          463             -         1,035          572              55
Centml Tunisia                      0-5        3,330             956        2,090                       2,374          284              12
Syhvopastoral                      0-40        2,533             254        1,262             -         2,279         1,017             45
SIDA                                0-5        1,097              34          194           25          1,063          844              79
APMANE (US-AID)                    0-40       52,549           2,104       15,363           120        50,445        34,962             70
FIDA                               0-40       14,567           1,966        6,599           16         12,601         5,986             48
FIDA SIDI BOUZID I                 0-40          640             242          375             -          398            23               6
FIDA SIDI BOUZID II                              985          [?1 984          54             -           61             7           f?J11
FODERI                                        54,161          47,251        5,058           22          6,910         1,830             26
PDA KEF                                        3,102           2,973          117             -          129            12               9
PDRCF                                             56              40           13                         16             3              19
ODS                                            2,946           2,839          93                         107            14              13
Integrated projets (DF)                      126,410         106,356       14,191             -       20,054          5,863             29
Misxlaneous                                    3,335             422        1,169           96          2,913         1,648             57
TOTAL                                       1,040,135        324,991      170,071        16,567       715,144       528,506             74
Unit = TD:1000



33 -
ANNEX VI
RECOVERY RATES BY YEAR
FUNDS                                     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      AVERAGE
BNA                                        94       92        93        90        91           92
SCM                                        44        57       70        64         57          58
IBRD/1IDA 779263 TUN                       86       84        83        83        83           84
IBRD 1340 TUN                              73       76        78        75        73           75
IBRD1885TUN                                62       65        64        62        62           63
IBRD 2865 TUN                                       68        54        47        46           54
Farm roads                                 72       78        78        75        76           76
Fisheries 270 TUN                          31       33        33        33        34           33
Fisheries 1748TUN                          4         4         5         7         8            6
OMWM/IMIVAN                                77        78       86        85        83           82
FSA                                        84        85       85        85        85           85
Bel Nebhana                                0         0         0         0         0            0
FMO                                                 34        64        59        60           54
BNDA grant and loans                                 0         11       29        74           29
FOSDA                                      54        53       57        50        48           52
FOSEP                                      56        59       56        52        49           54
PAM                                        59       64        60        81        77           68
FADES                                      67        63       59        57        57           61
FSDR MAHDIA                                          54       28         28       25           34
PANO                                                           92       43        55           63
Central Tunisia                            21        16        13        12        12          15
Sylvo-pastoral                             62        66        85        47        45          61
SIDA                                       59        66        82        79        79          73
APMANE (US-AID)                            76        82        82       71         70          76
FIDA                                       51        56       63         47       48           53
FIDA SIDI BOUZID I & II                    -         8         8         7         7            8
FODERI                                     26        28       27        30        26           27
PDA KEF                                    -                             18        9           14
PDRCF                                                          -         17        19          15
ODS                                        .                  25         12        13          17
Bhaier and Bechri F.D. zone                .                                      29           29
Miscellaneous                              74       78        77        57        57           69
Overall recovery rate                      78        79       e1        76         74          78



- 34 -
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORHATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose            Approval      Status
First Agricultural Credit   To finance large-             1971      Completed
Project                      scale farmers & semi-                  July 1978
(Loan 779/Credit 203-TUN)   private companies
Second Agricultural Credit  Finance small-scale &         1976      Completed
Project                      commercial farmers                     June 1983
(Loan 1340-TUN)              and agro-industries
Third Agricultural Credit   Increase production           1980      Completed
Project                      and incomes of small-                  Dec. 1986
(Loan 1885-TUN)              and medium-scale
farmers and improve
credit operations
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Item                         Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification               1985                        1985
Preparation                  June/July 1986              June 1986
Appraisal Mission            October 1986                November 1986
Negotiations                 April 1987                  April 13-17, 1987
Board Presentation           June 1987                   July 7, 1987
Signing                                                  July 22, 1987
Effectiveness/!              October 1987                January 22, 1988
Completion                   December 31, 1990           September 30,1991
Closing                      December 31, 1991           November 19, 1991
Last Disbursement            December 1991  .            November 19, 1991
Loan effectiveness was delayed by three months to allow the Government
to prepare legal documents.



- 35 -
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year and              Appraisal          Actual       Actual as Z of
Semester                     Estimate                        Appraisal
FY88
September 30, 1987               .00               .00               0
December 31, 1987               2.50               .00               0
March 31, 1988                  3.70              3.70              100
June 30, 1988                   5.00              3.70              74
FY89
September 30, 1988              6.70              4.80              72
December 31, 1988               8.40              6.00              71
March 31, 1989                 10.29              8.10               79
June 30, 1989                  12.00              8.10              68
FY90
September 30, 1989             14.00              9.50              68
December 31, 1989              16.00             11.90              74
March 31, 1990                 18.00             14.12               75
June 30, 1990                  20.00             14.12              70
FY91
September 30, 1990             21.80             16.36              74
December 31, 1990              23.60             18.85              80
March 31, 1991                 25.30             21.35              84
June 30, 1991                  27.00             26.00              96
FY92
September 30, 1991             28.50            27.13               90
December 31, 1991              30.00             30.00             100
Date of Final Disbursement: November 19, 1991



- 36 -
Table 3(a): ComRarison between Appraisal and Actual Disbursements
by Categorv of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Actual as Z of
Category               Appraisal        Actual          Appraisal
1-a Subloans to small- and
medium-scale farmers          8.0            8.1               101
1-b Subloans to large-scale
farmers                       8.0            6.9                87
1-c Subloans to
cooperatives                  3.5            3.3                95
1-d Subloans to
agro-industries               4.5            3.7                82
1-e  Subloans to fishermen           3.5             6.4              182
2    Institutional component         2.5             1.6                64
TOTAL                               30.0            30.0               100



- 37 -
Table 3(b): BNA's Prolect-Related Subloan Commitments/!
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991       TOTAL
----------------- TD Million -------------
Subloans to:
Small- & medium-scale
farmers                      0.1     1.9     2.8      3.1      3.0       10.9
Large-scale farmers            1.5      1.9     2.1     2.6      3.6       11.7
Cooperatives                   1.3      1.3     0.4     1.8      1.9        6.7
Agro-industry investors        0.4      0.2     1.8     3.5       1.9       7.8
Fishermen                      0.1      0.6     1.8     9.9      1.6       14.0
Total Commitments              3.4     5.9      8.9    20.9     12.0       51.0
I per year                     6.7    11.5    17.4    40.9      23.5      100
BNA's Project-Related Subloan Disbursements/s
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991       TOTAL
----------------- TD Million -------------
Subloans disbursed for:
Small- & medium-scale
farmers                      0.1     1.8      2.6     3.0      2.3        9.8
Large-scale farmers             1.2     1.3     1.3     2.1      2.4        8.3
Cooperatives                   0.9      1.1     0.1     0.6       1.3       4.0
Agro-industry investors        0.1       -      0.2     3.2       0.9       4.4
Fishermen                       -       0.2     1.1     1.7      4.8        7.8
Total Disbursements            2.3      4.4     5.3    10.6      11.7      34.3
Z per year                     6.7    12.8    15.5    30.9      34.1      100
Excludes, consequently, sub-borrowers and Government contribution to
subproject investment cost.



- 38 -
Table 3(c): BNA's Project-Related Subloans at Year-End and Cumulative
1987     1988    1989    1990    1991       TOTAL
Number of subloans
granted                     337      1841    2072    1950    1806        8006
BRA Commitments
(TD Million)                3.4       5.9      8.9    20.9    12.0       51.1
BHA Disbursements
(TD Million)                2.3       4.4      5.3    10.6    11.7       34.3
IBRD Disbursements/!          -       6.0      4.3      4.5    13.6      28.4
($ Million)
'A     From FY88 to FY92 on the basis of 75% of amounts disbursed by BRA under
such loans.
Table 3(d): Prolect Lending Program: Medium- and Long-Term Credit
Average Unit Cost                                           Total
of Investment           No. of        Million   Million    Cost
in TD                sub-projects      (TD)       (US$) 
Small- & medium-
scale farmers             2,470              6,010          14.8       16.3        30
Large-scale farmers        14,180                 843          12.0      13.2        24
Cooperatives               26,300                 209          5.5        6.1        11
Agro-industry
investors               173,330                 36           6.2        6.8        12
Fishermen
- Engine renewal)
- Fishing gear  }          57,950                 192         11.2       12.2        23
Total Cost                                                    49.6       54.6       100
Less:
Sub-borrowers
contribution                                                11.9       13.1
Government special
resources                                                    3.4        3.7
Total medium- and
lone-term credit
proram                                                      34.3       37.8



- 39 -
Project Implementation: Key Performance Indicators
Table 4(a): BNA's Loan Recoverv 1987-91 for
Agricultural Lending and Risk Assumed
Recoverl Rate (on 2rincipal)/
Sources               Risk Assumed
by BRA         1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  Average
- -------------   (X)                 --------------
BRA own resources         100          94    92    93    90    91         92
Socift6s de Caution
Mutuelle (SCMAs)        0-5          44    57    70    64    57         58
IBRD Loans                100/         74    73    70    67    66         70
FOSDA/FOSEP                0           54    53    57    50    48         52
Supervised projects      0-40        21-76  8-82  8-85   7-79  7-79  10-79
BNA's average
recovery rate            0           78    79    81    76    74         78
Rate at end of CY, after payment of interest due.
/b    JUnder the second loan, risk assumed by BNT was 10-25Z; under the third loan, it
was 40-100.
Table 4(b): Financial Ratios (See Table 8(b), page 51)



_ 40 -
Table 5(a): Proiect Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates            Actual Cost
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Medium- and long-term
credit                  27.5      27.5    55.0    27.2        28.4    54.6
Private farmers           19.0      16.4    34.5    14.5        15.0    29.5
Cooperatives               2.2       3.3      5.5      2.8       3.3      6.1
Agro-industries             3.0      4.5      7.5      3.1       3.7      6.8
Private fishermen          3.3       3.3      6.6     6.8        6.4    12.2
Institutional
develoDment              1.5       2.5      4.0     0.4        4.0      4.411
Computer software
& hardware               1.05      2.25    3.3      0.4        3.7      4.1
Training                   0.4       0.1      0.5      -          -        -
Consultants &
specialists              0.05      0.15    0.2       -         0.3      0.3
Total Prolect Cost        29.0      30.0    59.0    27.6        32.4    59.0
Out of which US$2.2 million equivalent was financed by an EEC grant
after  BNT/BNDA merger: mainframe  computer  (2.0)  and  organization
consultants (0.2).
Table 5(b): Proiect Financing
(US$ million)
Planned Loan                        Actual/Planned
Source              Agreement            Actual                 z
IBRD                         30.0                 30.0                100
BNA                          17.0                 13.7                81
a)  Omn funds              (12.7)               (10.0)               (79)
b)  Government              (4.3)                (3.7)               (86)
Sub-borrowers                12.0                 13.1                109
EEC                           0.0                  2.2                 -
TOTAL                        59.0                 59.0                100



- 41 -
Table 6: Statue of Covenante
Deadline for
Covenant                           SubJect                    Compliance                Status
- Loan Agreement
Sec. 4.02                      BNA to furnish audit report each           June 30       OK.  Supptied on time
year.                                     each year      each year.
Sec. 4.03                     BNA to furnish income statements            yearly        OK
and analysis of credit operations.
Sch. 4                         BNA to adjust interest rates from            1991        Adjustment done in
Part A 11                      time to time to reach market                             1987, 1990. and 1991'.
(a)                            rates.
Sch. 4                         BNA to set up an efficient                  6/90         OK.  MIS has been set
Part B                         organization and HIS                                     up in branch office
(a) (i)                                                                                 network.
Sch. 4                         BNA to establish a computer                 9/87         OK
b) Ci)                        managing committee
Sch. 4                         SNA to prepare an annual training           3/88         Done every year
Part B                        program beginning with 3/88
Cb) Cii)
- Guarantee Agreement
Sec. 3.02Cc)                   Goverment of Tunisia to (i) cause           1991         Done in  987, 1990,
agricultural rates to be adjusted,                       and 19911 .
in consultation with Bank, to
reach rates equal to market rates,
and (ii) reduce its budgetary
allocations to agricultural credit
financing.
Sec. 3.03                     Government to establish an                   12/87        OK
Agricultural Credit Coordinating
Committee.
I!         Considerable progress was made under the project but further revisions in agricultural interest rates
are needed to reach market rates.



- 42 -
Table 7(a)s USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Innuts'A
(staff weeks)
Stages of
Project Cycle   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   Total
Pro-appraisal    1.2   33.2   37.0    1.0      -       -      -      -      72.4
Appraisal          -      -    23.4     -       -      -      -      -     23.4
Negotiations       -      -     4.9      .9    -       -      -      -      5.8
Supervision       -       -      -     6.3    4.3   10.0   10.0    2.2    32.8
TOTAL             1.2   33.2   65.3   8.2    4.3   10.0   10.0    2.2   134.4
This  information comes from the Bank MIS;    it may not be fully
consistent with Mission Data compiled from files.



- 43 -
Table 7(b): E. Missions
Mission                    Date       No. of    Days Jn   SpeciaLizat[ons   Perforpwnce   Types of
(m/y)     Persons   Field1    Represented-         Rating'       Problem
Throush Acoraisal
Identification/
Preparation                 9/85         2        19       FA,ACS
Preparation                12/85         1        21       FA
Preparation                 4/86         1        14       FA
Pre-Appraisal               6/86         7        21       FA,ACS,DS,RS,
TMS,MIS,CB
Aeraisat througn
Effectiveness
Appraisal                  11/86         6        14       FA,E,CB,ACS,TNS
Post-Appraisal              3/87         1         7       FA
Subtotal                                18        96
Prolect InMlementation
Supervision 1              12/87         1         7       FA                      1         Loan
effectiveness
Supervision 2               4/88         1        14       FA                      2         Drought
Special SJdJ on policy      1/89         3         7       FA,ACS                  2         Policy reform
reforms-
Supervision 3               9/89         1         7       FA                      2         Drought
Supervision 4              12/89         1        14       FA                      2         Merger of
BNT/BNDA
Supervision 5               7/90         2         7       FA,ACS                  2         Funglbility of
funds
Supervision 6               6/91         2        14       FA,ACS                  2         BNA
PCR preparation             2/92         2         8       FA,ACS                  2         reorganization
Subtotal                                13        78
Man/days in field include time spent on supervising other projects.
/b    E = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; ACS = Agricultural Credit Specialist; DS  Discounting Specialist;
TMS - Training and Monitoring Specialist; RS = Rural Savings; MIS = MIS and EDP Systems; Co = Commercial
Banking.
Status Rating: I = problem free or minor problem; 2 a moderate problem; 3 a major problem - appropriate
actions are being taken to moderate these problems; 4 = major problems - they are not being addressed
adequately.
/d    International donors meeting on the policy and institutional reforms.



- 44 -
Table 8(a): BNA's Financial Position - Summary of Balance Sheets 1987-1991
as ot December 31 (TD'000)
1987          1988         1989          1990            1991
Assets
Cash and banks                          33,538        190,097       340,922       220,654        232,840
Bills dIsoounted                       113,402        327,052       440,837       726,720        897,483
Short-term loans and advance*          222,246        224,936       214,741       189,243        284,785
Term loans                             206,063        247.315       339.49S       390.191        440.930
Subtotal normal risk assets           548,656        937,464      1,144,101     1,495,802      1,796,038
Government bonds and securities        124,907        132,210       141,453       150,203        110,829
Equity participations                   15,142         25,110        25,110        27,627         30,058
Other assets                           353,569        242,114       274,598       315,253        320,611
Net fixed assets                        10,284         13.006        20.9          24.909         28.509
TOTAL ASSETS                          1,086,096      1,540,001     1,947,074    2,234,448      2,551,710
Liablilties
Central bank, M. market                              260,404       436,779       564,141        740,555
Demand Deposits                       431,070        356,732       311,798       293,565        315,473
Term deposits                         126,251        328,363       392,690       434,752        455,029
Banks & correspondents                 27,849         11,237        18,742        20,322         13,133
Other creditors                        12,672         10,607        37.450        53,574         72.729
Subtotal                              597,842        967,343     1,197,459     1,366,354      1,596,919
Special funds/A                       195,319        224,021       310,377       356,116        403,582
Long-term bonds                                         100         25,000        45,291        47,483
Provision for bad debts                44,094         49,194        60,895        67,355        73,251
Other liabilities                     194.882        247,32        274.456       316           344.765
TOTAL UABILITIES                      1,032,137      1,487,979    1,868,187     2,151,479      2,465,921
Equitv
Capital                                 23,000         23,000        33,000        33,000         33,000
Reserves                                30,959         29,022        45,887        49,970         52,789
Subtotal Equity                        53.959         52.022        78.887      _82970          85.789
TOTAL LIABILUTIES AND EQUITY          1,086,096      1,5 0,001     1,947,074    2,234,449      2,o51,710
Off-Balance Sheet
Total                                  656,166        812,784       995,665       951,506      1,348,932
/af FOSDA, FOSEP, IBRD-IDA and Others.
k Increased to 55,000 as of March 1, 1992



- 45 -
Table 8(b): BNA's Financial Position - Income Statements. 1987-1991
as of December 31 (TD'000)
1987          1988          1989          1990           1991
Income
Interest Income
On loans                             63,186        64,315         72,875        90,846        119,111
On deposits                           6,706         9,960         39,744        31,964         24,075
Other                                 1^299         6,998         11.413        30.198         43.778
Subtotal                            71,191        81.273        124,032       153.008        186,964
Other Income                                         808           4.173                3.       582
TOTAL INCOME                          77,210        82,081        128,081       156,847        190,546
Expenses
Interest expense                     20,827        16,951         42,708        48,053         59,954
On deposits                          18,094        25,315         43,343        51,380         66,984
On borrowings                         4.316         4.114          4.763        11.883         14,294
Subtotal                            43,237        46,380        90,814        111,216        141,232
Personnel                            12,223        13,626         16,124        18,103         20,737
Other operating expenses              5,221         9,140          6,909         7,253          7,157
R,eorve for bad debts                 85355         S.100          6.888        11              9.479
TOTAL EXPENSES                        70,248        75,570        122,036       148,739        180,476
Pre-Tax Income                         6,962         6,511          6,169         8,108         10,070
Income tax                            1.890          904                         1,258          2,401
NET INCOME                             5,072         5,607          6,169         6,850          7,669
Allocation
Dividends                            1,900         2,300          3,300        3,630          3,752
Director's fees                        25            25             25            35             39
Soclal Assistance Fund                700           800            850          1,000          1,150
Legal reserve                                                                    343            383
Reserves                              921           445            524           110            828
Balance carried forward                46            84             54            87            s8
Financial Ratios (in %)
Debt/Equity                           19.13         28.60          23.68         25.93          26.10
Risk assets/Core deposits              .98           1.37           1.62          2.05           2.33
Equity/Risk assets                     9.83          5.55           6.90          5.55           6.00
Provisions as % of total
Risk assets'!                         3.66          2.81          2.85          2.94           2.43
Profitabilitv Ratios (in %)
Gross Income/Total assets              7.11          5.33           6.58          7.02           7.48
Resource cost                          4.38          3.22           5.02          5.34           5.40
Financial margin/Risk assets           6.19          3.81           3.27          3.04           3.05
Operating cost/Total assets            2.49          1.90           1.60          1.73           1.75
Return on equity (before taxes)       12.90         1252            7.82          8.26           9.34
D5 Defined as loans outstanding plus guarantees and acceptance (off-balanoe sheet).
4k After capital increase decided at the end of 1991.



8'                               90                                10' 
, - ,EIERTE
s   e   a      A /'   tS  \rAg'44-y\\<rl~~~~~~as Jbel4;
C~~~~P a
370                                         Tbr                                                         A
in Draha__n.  so.a                                                        B   Menzel Temime
_          JEN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,    ornEULg
S2et t  *   ; /      '         ^a@;          SQKAIROU  j*   |               say Hella
|   ~    ~            1               y               *                  i                 :%a a ;adbiaa 3a dinin
pThallayj  Sbiba                                K             AB  eha                         ni KMAHDIA
-To60                El>Krib                 BXase's-    Bou Haila ,' 'u  >                 ur-Essat
( jF6:ruana                      /         )      rRe                            G        ot
ft~~~~~~~~~~i All Been  gAgareb<rrer
-34'
fenamiaKA   /                                                                                   an
33i                               laG a                                             massyf                             ned
j fichTo ebessa  /lbtai K2 A                                                            /vkIrA
(  Nefla    ;;V /~~~~   rl            ra          Bs~     _v               o>  l\>aE                     r,Esa
ecw waazoua \   Hhott el      xGBELLI            '         v /5. 3 F~~~~~~ ah                   I JemO
-351                                                                IDIn BOU ZID                                        an                       35tL
- MainmRroadn       are
Secondary Roads         iainasy'l M
~~~TUN              hI SIArsAAIE/
-~-  Rail Roads                                                                                                 \ 
GasaRivers                                                                        .
Nefta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~5   .~.tna 
_ _  Salt Lakes                                                 '8ad                            T ISIA   S.
4..  International Airports                                    *                            V'  . .Jerba
___0r ~       Cities and Towns                                                             Island
_@*_",  0    Governorate Capitals                                                                                   \ _
_e3   National Capital                                                        32    ALGERIA   i         LBYA        i W
0 _e_o                              _~   Governorate Boundaries                                                                                             0      
International oundaries\
35   aer_rew__                                                                             .            / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Gurf t
~ ~-8  o    o_ NIGER   >'  CHADS -L 1
8'                 9'                                  10'                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~-homasep''



