Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6622-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 1, 1987
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Agriculture II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Tunisian Dinar (D)
D 1.00          =  US$ 1.15
US$ 1.00         =  D 0.87
(as of December, 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGH'S AND MEASURES
ha = hectare (2.47 acres)
mt  =  metric ton (2,204 pounds)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIAI'IONS
APB      Professional Association of Banks of Tunisia (Association
Professionnelle des Banques de Tunisie)
APIA     Agricultural Investment Promotion Agency (Agence de Promotion des
Investissements Agricoles)
ASAL     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Pret Sectcriel d'Ajustement
Agricole)
BCT      Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de Tunisie)
BDET     Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie)
BNDA     National Bank for Agricultural Development (Banque Nationale de
D6veloppement Agricole)
BNT      National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CLCM     Local Mutual Credit Fund (Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel)
CNC      National Credit Council (Conseil National du Cr6dit)
CRDA     Regional Agricultural Development Commission (Commissariat R6gional
de Developpement Agricole)
CSA      Service Cooperative (Coop6rative de Service Agricole)
EEC/EIB European Economic Community/European Investment Bank (Communaute
Economique Europ6enne/Banque Europ6enne d'investissement)
FOSDA    Special Fund for Agricultural Development (Fonds Special de
Developpement Agricole)
FOSEP    Special Fund for Fishery (Fonds Special d'Encouragement a la Peche)
FNG      National Guarantee Fund (Fonds National de Garantie)
FPC      Foreign Exchange Rate Risks Fund (Fonds de Per6quation des Changes)
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fonds Ir.ternational
pour le D6veloppement Agricole)
ITPAL    Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
(Pret d'Ajustement des Politiques Industrielles et du Commerce)
MOAP     Ministry of Agricultural Production and Food Processing (Ministere de
la Production Agricole et Agro-alimentaire)
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de l'Agriculture)
MOPF     Ministry of Planning and Finance (Ministere du Plan et des Finances)
OC       National Cereal Board (Office des C6reales)
OCT      Trade Board of Tunisia (Office du Commerce de Tunisie)
OMV      Irrigation Development Agency (Office de Mise en Valeur)
ONH      National Olive Oil Board (Office National de l'Huile)
SCMA     Agricultural Mutual Guarantee Society (Societe de Caution Mutuelle
Agricole)
UCPA     Agricultural Production Cooperative (Unite Coop6rative de Production
Agricole)
UNA      National Union of Farmers (Union Nationale des Agriculteurs)
USAID    United States Agency for International Development (Agence des Etats
Unis pour le D6veloppement International)



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
Guarantor:    Republic of Tunisia
Amount:       US$30 million equivalent
Terms:         17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would finance credit to agriculture in
support of the Government's medium-term adjustment program
(1987-91) formulated in connection with the recent Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) (Loan 2754-TUN), and promote
development of a financially sound rural credit system. The
project would (i) through interest rate reforms, encourage BNT
and the banking sector to increase their role in mobilizing
resources and in financing agriculture ; (ii) restructure the
complex institutional system in which agricultural credit is
extended; (iii) improve the financial viability of agricultural
credit operations and harmonize credit terms and conditions;
(iv) assist Government in its efforts to develop private
investment in the sector; and (v) promoto savings schemes tied
to eligibility for credit. The project would consequently set
the stage to bring private banks into agricultural lending over
the next three to five years.
Specifically, the project would provide funds for (a) medium-
and long-term credit to private farmers and investors in the
agricultural sector to finance a wide range of invei,tments
including irrigation, forage, tree crop and livestock
development, storage facilities, fishing gear and spare parts,
frnit and date processing plants, and farm equipment; (b)
improving BNT's management information and computer systems, and
training of project-related staff. The project would also
stiengthen the agricultural credit policy coordination between
the various Government authorities involved.
Since the project has been designed to be fully consistent with
the Government's medium-term program already mutually agreed by
the Bank and the Government under the ASAL, the risk of slower
pace than expected in the execution of the proposed improvements
is considered reduced. IBRD funds are not expected to be at
risk, since BNT's commercial and overall operating resilts are
positive, and BNT will become more profitable as agricultural
interest rates move towards market rates and cover the
transaction costs of agriculture financing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost                            Local       Foreign       Total
US$ million 
BNT credit operations                        27.5          27.5       55.0
(Medium- and long-term)
Institutional Development                     1.5           2.5        4.0
(Software, equipment, training,
consultants)
Total Project Cost                       29.0 /a        30.0       59.0 /a
Financi Plan
IBRD                                                   30.0       30.0
BNT                                     12.7            -         12.7
Government                               4.3 343
Sub-borrowers                           12.0            -         12.0
TOTAL                      29.0          30.0        59.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                        1988    1989      1990     1991     1992
-   -  -  ~(US  llion) 
Annual                          5.0      7.0      8.0      7.0       3.0
Cumulative                      5.0    12.0      20.0     27.0     30.0
Staff AmraIsA! Rerpo       No. 6622-TUN       Date:  June 1, 1987
Map No.: IBRD 14921R
/a Includes US$9.4 million of taxes and duties.
aSlEt



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNE;IA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
L     ENlnODUCTrION ........... ,.............                             1
IL    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........            ...........1
A.  Economic Outlook                 ...                           1
B.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy ..............             2
C.  Agricultural Parformance and Government Strategy .             3
D.  Bank-Financed Agricultural Projects ..............             4
mI     AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SYSTEMS AND DISTITUTIONS                        5
A.  Financial Sector Background                                    5
B.  Trends in Agricultural Credit ........... ........f 6
C.  Agricultural Credit Institutions .................             7
- Central Bank Refinancing Facilities ............             7
- National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) ................              9
- Other Commercial Banks                                       9
- Cooperative Credit Institutions 
- National Bank for Agricultural Development .....            10
a.  Problems in Agricultural Credit ..................            10
E. Credit Reforms under the Medium-Term Adjustment
Program (1987-91)   0    a *e**a .........  ...........13
IY.   TE NATIONAL BANK OF TUNISJA}SU          *O*OOO0*.......             14
A.  Organization and Staffing ........................            14
B.  Lending Policies and Procedures                               16
C.  Agricultural Lending Operations                               16
D.  Financial Situation and Performance .............             18
E.  BNT's Development Objectives and Strategy ........            22
F.  BNT's Projected Agricultural Lending
Program and Financing Requirements ..............            22
V.    IHE PROEC  ..... ......... o4oo*#*o9                             23
A.  Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank
Involvement ........ ooo*........................          23
B.  Summary Description of Project Components    ........         24
C.  Detailed Features ... .....* ................... .           24
D.  Project Cost and Financing      .......................       27
E.  Procurement ............ .  .**.                              30
F. Disbursements                                                  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Tunisia in November 1986 composed of Mr. B. Dussert (mission leader), Ms. L.
Effron and Ms. C. Ng (Bank), and Messrs. C. Bartoli, J.J. Deschamps and M.
Frioui (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                          Page No.
VE    PROJECTr DfPLEMdENTATION ...............................................   33
A. Agricultural Credit Policy Reforms .c      .............   33
B. Credit Operations .......       ..... .......... .. .      36
C.  Institutional Development         ........................  39
D.  Monitoriuag and Evaluation ........... .............      39
E.  Accounts and Audit ...............................        40
VIl.  BEMEFTS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......................         41
A.  Bent-fits and Justification .......................       41
B. Risks ...................................                  45
Vm.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM           MNDATIONSD................ 46
Supporting Tables
1.   Resource Structure and Gruwth of Banking System (1980-85)
2.   Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks (1980-85)
3.   Outstanding Credit to Agriculture 1980-85
4.    Banking System Lending Commitments in Agriculture (1983-85)
5.    Structure of Interest Rates
6.   BNT Recovery Rates by Source of Funds and Risk Assumed
7.   BNT Cost of Resources, and Return on Resources Used
8.   BNT Agricultural Credit Operations - Financial Conditior 1980-85
9.    Investments in Agriculture (1977-86)
10.   BNT Schematic Agricultural Lending by Subsector (1981-90)
11.   Project Cost Estimates
12.   Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
13.   Farmers in Tunisia
14.   Agricultural Credit Monitoring Indicators
15.   Production Levels and Growth Rates of Key Agricultural Products
(1972-86)
Annexes
1.   Performance under Previous Agricultural Credit Projects
2.   Local Mutual Credit Funds (CLCMs) and Mutual Guarantee
Agricultural Societies (SCMAs)
3.   Policy and Institutional Reforms Matrix
4.    Indicative Project Lending Program
5.    BNT Financial Position (1981-90)
6.    Sub-sectoral Investment Strategies in Agriculture (1987-91)
7.   Production and Service Cooperatives (UCPAs and CSAs)
8.    Guidelines for Impltmentation of Policy Reforms
9.   Lending Terms and Conditions
10.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
1.    Implementation Schedule
2.    Flow of Project Funds
3.   Organization Chart
Up  Branch Network of National Bank of Tunisia (November 1986) (IBRD 14921R)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     Following the formulation of a medium-term adjustment program
(1987-91) for the agricultural sector, which was supported by an Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan financed by the Bank (Loat' 2754-TUN), the Government of
Tunisia and the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) have requested Bank assistance
to finance a Fourth Agricultural Credit Project to promote private investment
in agriculture. The project, besides investment financing as in previous
agricultural credit operations, would have the additional objective of
improving the agricultural credit system of Tunisia. The project would
provide for the coordination of agricultural credit policy between the
Government, the Central Bank, and the banking sector; the modernization on a
decentralized basis of BNT's organizational structure, planning process,
management control, accounting and loan monitoring systems; better farmer
coverage; and increased financial viability of agricultural credit operations.
1.02     The Project was identified jointly by BNT and the Bank in 1985.  It
was prepared in 1986 by BNT and Government with the assistance of consultants
and the support of Bank missions supervising the Third Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 1885-TUN) and appraising the First Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 2754-TUN). It was appraised in November 1986 by a
mission composed of Mr. B. Dussert, Ms. L. Effron and Ms. C. Ng (Bank) and
Messrs. C. Bartoli, J.J. Deschamps and M. Frioui (Consultants).
iH. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Economic Outlook
2.01     Past Performance.  During the 1970's, the Tunisian economy did well.
Overall, the value of production grew at 4.4S p.a. in real terms compared to
3S p.a. for middle income countries as a group. Economic performance
benefitted from a substantial improvement in the terms of trade due to a rapid
increase in the price of oil, which allowed both consumption and domestic
savings to increase and investment to remain high (over 30% of GDP). The
inflation rate remained modest, averaging 6.1S over the decade. The current
account deficit in the balance of payments, which averaged 5 to 6% of GDP was
easily financed. However, the pace of growth slowed down near the end of the
period and in the early 1980's, mostly because a series of droughts greatly
reduced the contribution of agriculture to the economy. The only major
problem during the decade was a high rate of unemployment.



- 2 -
2.02     Recent Economic Trends.  Economic performance deteriorated during the
Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) fo: a variety of reasons. These include a
stagnation in oil production, the 1982/83 and 1985/86 droughts, which offset
the 35-year peak of grain preduction in 1984/85; technical problems in the
phosphate and cement industries; declines in tourism and exports of
manufactured goods due to the recession in Europe; high domestic prices and a
sizeable appreciation of the Tunisian Dinar vis-a-vis the currencies of most
competitor countries. More recently, economic performance was adversely
affected by the decline in oil prices, lower tourism revenues due to political
uncertainties in the Mediterranean region and lower workers' remittances.
2.03     Recent Policy Measutes.  Faced with this deterioration of the
economic situation, the Goveenment started in 1983 to implement a series of
folicy measures aimed at stabilizing the economy: (a) beginning in 1983, wage
t,nd salary increases were frozen or held to minimal increases; (b) in July
1985, a more flexible exchange rate policy was introduced which resulted by
mid-1986 in a gradual depreciation of the dinar of over 181 vis-&-vis a basket
of seven currencies; and the dinar was formally devalued by 91 in August 1986;
(c) since 1985, certain interest rates, including those applied to
agricultural credit, have been raised by 0.75 to 2 percentage points; (d) in
1986, measures were taken to reduce the budget deficit to about 3.2% of GDP
(from 3.7% of GDP in 1985) by cutting recurrent expenditures, new non-priority
investments, and subsidies to households and public enterprises; (e)
agricultural producer prices were gradually decontrolled, so that by end-1985
nearly 751 of agricultural production was sold freely in the domestic market
and/or abroad; (f) investment cantrols were limited somewhat to focus more
sharply on new investment priorities; under the new industrial investment code
to be promulgated shortly, controls will be removed; a-d (g) measures were
taken to promote exports. These policy measures, taken together with the
imposition of drastic foreign exchange controls and import restrictions,
brought the current account deficit in the balance of payments from 111 of GDP
in 1984 down to about 7% in 1985, despite reduced export and tourism
revenues. In September 1986, the Government requested from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) an 18-month stand-by arrangement in an amount equivalent
to SDR 103.65 million, which was approved in November 1986 along with a
purchase of SDR 114.71 million under the Compensatory Financing of Export
Fluctuations scheme. The IMF assistance, together with a series of Bank
policy adjustment loans, is intended to support a gradual adjustment and
liberalization of the Tunisian economy under the Seventh Plan (1987-91) that
is needed to encourage stability and long-term growth (para. 2.07).
B. Place of Ag4iculture in the Economv
2.04     Tunisia is at a stage of its development where agriculture accounts
for about 131 of GDP, 351 of employment and 81 of export earnings, which
represent sharp drops from 1960 levels of 241 of GDP, 56% of employment , and
601 of export earnings. Despite relatively good performance by the sector
(para. 2.05), Tunisia is experiencing a widening "food gap" which has placed
an increasing strain on the balance of payments.  Agricultural imports,.I'
consisting mainly of cereals (451), soybean oil (121), meat (10%), milk (91),
and sugar (61), increased from D81 million in 1976 to D363 million in 1984
(down to D270 million in 1985).  Agricultural exports,1' consisting mainly
of olive oil (48%), dates (141), citrus (51) and wine (41), grew more slowly
(from D65 million in 1976 to D140 million in 1984, and down to D132 million in
1985). As a result, the agricultural sector has accounted for a rising share
of the overall trade deficit (from 51 in 1976 to 20% in 1984 and 1985).
1/ expressed in current prices.



C. Agticultural Performnwe and Government Strategy
2.05     After a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and the first half
of the 1970s, when agricultural GDP grew at 8.81 p.a. (1967-76), growth slowed
to on average 3.32 in the last 10 years (1977-86). This slower growth rate
suggests a decline in efficiency in view of the growth of 62 p.a. in gross
fixed investment in agriculture during the decade 1975 to 1985, a rate about
twice as high as for the economy as a whole. During the Sixth Plan (1982-86),
agriculture represented 162 of total investment, somewhat more than its
contribution to GDP. Investments by the public sector were concentrated in
irrigation (422 compared to 222 in the early 1970s). As a result, most of
Tunisia's irrigation potential is now harnessed, but investments and
activities needed to ensure optimal utilization are lagging behind. The
private sector accounted for only 31% of investment in agriculture,
significantly less than the Plan projections of 50X. The Seventh Plan
(1987-91), recognizing the present budgetary constraints, again provides for
the private sector's share of investment in agriculture to rise to 50S. This
shift requires not only a prioritization and adjustment of public expenditures
to focus on improved use of existing productive capacity, but also a selective
reduction in the public sector role to create the room for private sector
participation, and a shift in sector policies to provide greater incentives to
private investments.
2.06     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (1987-91).  The need for
medium-term adjustments in the sector to address existing constraints has led
the Government, with Bank assistance, to develop a Medium-Term Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program to support the implementation of the Seventh Plan
(1987-91).  The overall objective of the sector adjustment program is to
maintain the growth rate in agriculture in order to reduce the sector trade
deficit while staying within the overall macroeconomic constraints on public
spending. To achieve this objective, the program provides for short- and
medium-term actions to:
(a)  improve the prices and incentives framework;
(b)  re-orient the public investment program in agriculture towards low-
cost, high-priority projects;
(c)  strengthen agricultural support services and transfer some of them to
the private sector;
(d)  improve the management of land, forests and fisheries; and
(e)  build up institutional capacity for sector performance monitoring and
policy analysis.
2.07     The Agricultural Adjustment Program is complementary to the
Government's macroeconomic restructuring program which focuses on measures to
limit growth of domestic demand (wage and salary, budget and monetary
policies), to stimulate growth of non-traditional exports (exchange rate
policies, export promotion), and to improve the allocation and use of scarce
economic resources (interest rate policies, gradual liberalization of domestic
prices, investments and imports). The macro-program is also expected to
increase new employment more rapidly and reduce underemployment. The
AXricultural Sector Adjustment Loan which supports the Program (Loan 2754-TUN)



- 4 -
is being used to finance general imports and agricultural inputs needed to
stimulate agricultural production. The inputs include fertilizer and raw
materials for its manufacture, insecticides and herbicides, animal feed,
diesel fuel, spare parts, tractors and pumps, veterinary supplies, raw
materials for the manufacture of irrigation pipes and fisheries inputs. The
reforms agreed tuader the Loan are expected to crep'e a more favorable
environment for overall economic and sectoral growth in a time of resource
constraints.
D. Bank-Financed Agricultural Projects
2.08     Bank group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and to
date 17 projects (eight ongoing) and one sector loan (ASAL-I) have been
approved for a total of US$557.9 million of Bank/IDA funds. Performance under
these projects has been mixed reflecting the institutional constraints in the
sector. The First Fisheries Project (Cr. 270-TUN) was completed at the end of
1979, and the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) identified cost overruns
and low loan recoveries for boats as major problems. These problems were
addressed under the Second Fisheries Project (Ln. 1746-TUN), but recoveries
remain a problem. The First and Second Agricultural Credit Pro1ects (Ln./Cr.
779/263-TUN and Ln. 1340-TUN) financed lending by BNT for on-farm
development. While the projects achieved good rates of return, the continuing
problem of higher interest rates on Bank funds than on Government-supplied
credit and the lack of profitability of agricultural credit operations, as
highlighted in the PPARs for these projects, caused disbursements to be slower
than anticipated. The Third Agricultural Credi. Project (Ln. 1885-TUN) is
addressing priority credit problenas including the level of interest rates and
recoveries. Action has been taken to decentralize BNT's operations, raise
interest rates, and encourage improved recoveries.' The physical
implementation of the poverty-oriented Northwest Rural Development Project
(Ln. 1997-TUN) is proceeding satisfactorily. The physical implementation of
the Grain Distribution and Storage Project (Ln. 2052-TUN) is also progressing
well after initial delays, but the envisaged introduction of institutional
improvements has been very slow. Under the fechnical Assistance Project (Ln.
2197-TUN), strategies have been or are being developed for several sub-sectors
including farm input distribution, farm mechanization, produce marketing,
research and extension, and improved operation and maintenance of existing
irrigation infrastructure. These strategies have contributed to the design of
the ASAL-I (Loan 2754-TUN) described above in paragraphs 2.06 and 2.07.
Implementation of the irrigation projects - First Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Ln. 1068-TUN), Sidi Salem ProJect (Ln. 1431-TUN), Southern Irrigation
Project (Ln. 1796-TUN), Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Project (Ln. 2157-TUN),
Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Ln. 2234-TUN), and the recently started
Gabes Irrigation ProJect (Ln. 2605-TUN) - has generally been satisfactory and
on schedule. The PPAR for the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project found
that the increased reliability of water supply brought about by rehabilitation
works had a major impact on farm production and incomes in the project area by
encouraging farmers to take risks in planting higher value crops. The
Northwest Agricultural Production Project (Ln. 2502-TUN) will help alleviate
the constraints to increased production of cereals and livestock projects in
Northwest Tunisia, inter alia, by introducing an extension system based on the
Training and Visit (T&V) system. Partly to reduce future needs for
rehabilitation, the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (Ln. 2573-TUN)
1/ A more detailed description of the performance under the First, Second and
Third Agricultural Credit Projects is in Annex 1.
(31 3 X   )



is supporting nationwide improvements in the operation and maintenance of
existing irrigation systems and encouraging policy and institutional reforms
to increase the efficiency and self-financing of the irrigation development
agencies (OMVs). The First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan
2754-TUN) has made a good start, and action plans were prepared tc meet the
conditions of second tranche release and fulfill the obligations under the
sector policy letter.
m. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SYSTEMS AND INSfITUTIONS
A. Financial Sector BackMund
3.01     Tunisia has a well-developed system of financial institutions
comprising, in addition to the Central Bank, ten commercial (deposit) banks,
nine development (investment) banks, sixteen local mutual credit funds
(CLCMs), two specialized savings institutions, one leasing company, eight
portfolio-management agencies, seven off-shore banks, a network of postal
checking offices, six representative offices of foreign banks, and the stock
exchange. Most banks are private or semi-private institutions. The
Government owns one major commercial bank, two investment banks and the
savings institutions; it also holds about 30% of the shares of two other
commercial banks and one investment bank. There are constraints, however, on
the autonomy of these institutions and on the competition among them.1'
First, the number of financial institutions operating in the small Tunisia
market is quite large. Experience in Tunisia shows that specialized
institutions are too vulnerable to the difficulties of their specific sectors
and consequently often seek to diversify their operations.  Second, the
Tunisian banks are used to operate within a tight regulatory environment,-'
set and controlled by the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) through detailed rules
and practices that define and guide banking activities: liquidity and other
ratio requirements, limited access to borrowings on the money market,
preferentiel access to rediscounting facilities at BCT, loan pre-approval,
interest rate ceilings,-" and provision for bad debts. At the end of 1985,
the commercial banks, which engage primarily in short-term trade financing and
working capital lending, had about 375 branches throughout the country and
employed 10,000 persons. Development banks employ about 700.
3.02     Resources of the Banking Institutions.  The commercial (deposit)
banks are in a better situation than the development (investment) banks in the
raising and average cost of resources. The resource structure (1980-1985) of
commercial and development banks is given in Tables 1 and 2. With more than
D 5 billion (about US$6.5 billion) at end 1985, commercial banks have been
providing three-quarters of the resources of the banking system. Total
resources grew by an average 25% p.a. in current dinars during 1980-1984, the
growth being higher in development banks (33%) than in commercial banks
(23%). In 1985, growth slowed down to 20% and 15% respectively despite
increased resource needs. About 64% of the total resources of the deposit
banks comes from demand, time and savings account deposits. Also, the deposit
banks, enjoy BCT rediscot.nting and advance facilities up to a limit of 18% of
their aggregate deposits, and since September 1986, this 18% limit can be
1/ The World Bank, "Tunisia, Financial Sector Report", No. 5263-TUN, December
16, 1985.
2/ The recent move towa i liberalization of banking activities (para. 3.03)
is also described in the ITPAL report No. P-4449-TUN, January 28, 1987.
3/ For all sectors of the economy till end 1986 (para. 3.03).
T31 13S)



exceeded to refinance medium-term credits to small-scale enterprises and
priority activities (mainly agriculture and exports). In addition, deposit
banks have access - as do the development banks - to special resources of the
Government, or resources raised abroad by the Government, to finance certain
types of selective credits, in particular agricultural loans (para. 4.12).
The special resources held by deposit banks were equal at the end of 1985 to
102 of their total assets, down from 12S in 1980. Equity funds are financing
only about 5% of deposit banks' total a&sets. The investment banks are not
allowed to accept deposits (except, within very narrow limits, for accounts
used by their clients) and do not have access to BCT rediscounting (except for
limited rediscounting facilities in favor of BDET). They finance their
operations mainly from (a) equity funds; (b) the issue of obligations; and (c)
special resources furnished or raised abroad by the Government. Because the
local financial market is small, it offers the development banks only very
limited possibilities to raise resources.
3.03     Financial Sector Reforms.  Following the World Bank review of the
financial sector in Tunisia in 1984/85, a series of steps were taken by the
Goveaiment to start a gradual liberalization of the centrally managed
financial system. Recommendations included (a) strengthening policies and
institutions to increase domestic resource mobilization and improve investment
allocatioa.: (b) introducing a system of credit which would promote greater
discipline on the expansion of credit by the banking system; and (c) adopting
an active interest rate policy which would form an integral part of the
overall credit policy. More specifically, and as part of its recent monetary
and credit policy aimed at decontrolling interest rates and simplifying their
structure, Government has, beginning January 1, 1987, classified interest
rates into two principal categories: (i) preferential rates for priority
sectors (export activities, agriculture, small-scale enterprises, and
energy-saving projects), which will continue to be administered by BCT; and
(ii) rates freely determined by the market (subject to a ceiling to prevent
usurious rates, varying with the monetary situation). For maximum impact,
greater financial liberalization will go hand in hand with greater relaxation
of price, investment and trade policies (paras. 2.03 and 2.06).
B. Trends in Agricultural Credit
3.04     The Government of Tunisia has long been engaged in sizeable
agricultural credit programs to support capital investment in agriculture.
The diversified financial efforts involved - institutional credit provided by
BNT, special subsidized funds and agricultural projects or integrated projects
with bupervised credit components - have been substantial but have so far
failed to add up to a system which provides adequately for the needs of the
sector.
3.05     The short- medium- and long-term credit made available to the
agriculture sector over the period 1980-1985 is shown in Table 3.
Agricultural credit outstanding end 1985 amounted t" about D 429 million
(US$558 million) or 11.4b of total credit outstanding in the economy. From
1980 to 1985, credit to agriculture increased by 24.3S a year, a higher rate
than was observed in other sectors. The proportion of medium- and long-term
credit in total agricultural credit remained virtually constant at around 502.
(31131)



- 7 -
3.06     Under the 1982 Agricultural Investment Code, private investments in
agriculture currently benefit from a package of financial and tax
incentivest'. Typically, farmers finance directly 10% to 302 of the cost of
their investments, with about 702 to 90% coming from the credit system.
Subsidies under the Code are mainly in the form of tax (duty) rebates
equivalent to 10-202 of investment. Private investment accounts for about one
third of total investment in agriculture, a figure unchanged from the Fifth
Plan (1977-81). Under the sixth Plan (1982-86) the private sector accounted
for over 90Q of the investments made in farm machinery, greenhouses and fruit
trees, and lesser shares in livestock (561), fisheries (302), irrigation (122)
and forestry (8S). Agricultural credit is expected to have an even more
important role in private investment financing under the adjustment program of
the Seventh Plan (1987-1991).
C. Agri ultural Credit Institutions
3.07     The institutional system by which agricultural credit is made
available is complex. The main features are: (a) BCT instruments of control
and refinancing; (b) the predominance of BNT in financing agricultural credit
and managing special subsidized Government credit funds (including FOSDA); and
(C) the specific (and limited) role of other commercial banks and other
agencies (CLCMe, SCMAS and BNDA). Table 4 gives details of agricultural
lending carried out by the banking system, and the uses and sources of FOSDA
funds. The constraints in the agricultural credit system are to be found
primarily in policy, not in BNT's institutional shortcomings (para. 3.14).
Central Bank Instruments and Refinancing Facilities
3.08     BCT's instruments of control include rediscounting, money market
operations, reserve and ratio requirements, setting preferential interest
rates for priority sectors (para. 3.03), and credit distribution. Controls
related to the financing of agriculture include#
(a) Interest Rates. BCT controls the rates commercial banks are
permitted to charge agricultural customers, and these rates are below
market rates. Although most agricultural rates charged to farmers
are now positive in real terms following an increase in 1985 (para.
2.03), they do not yet cover the full financial and operating costs
and risks of the lenders. In response to this problem, the
Government agreed under the ASAL (para. 3.16) to implement a
five-year action program to establish more appropriate agricultural
interest rates and spreads;
(b) Financing Through Rediscount. Access to rediscounting is provided
under several headings. The seasonal financing quotas ("cotes
saisonnieres") affect the financing of short term credit. This
lending, which carries 6.752 interest, may be rediscounted with BCT
at 4.52"' for up to 802 of the disbursements made to farmers by the
commercial banks. There are also special facilities for
rediscounting credit granted to Mutual Guarantee Agricultural
S-cieties (SCMAs) at 4.75% of which 22 go to the National Guarantee
1/ Law 82/67 of August 6, 1982, available in the Project File
2/ Advances on cereals, olive oil and wine are rediscounted at 5.5X.
T2 I I2)



- 8 -
Fund (see (d) below). Medium-torm agricultural credit (less than 7
years) granted by the commercial banks from their own resources
carries interest at 71 and can be rediscounted at 5.52. In addition,
deposit banks can rediscount (at 10.5X) up to 70% of long-term credit
(7-15 years) made available to finance investment in buildings for
use in stockraising, establishment of tree-crop plantations, creation
of water-supply points and irrigated areas, and ac:uisition of
fishing equipment and tackle.  This credit is made available to
borrowers, with BCT pre-authorization, at 121 and may amount to a
maximum of 80l of the cost of a project.  All interest and
rediscounting rates mentioned above are those applicable since 1985.
Previously, these rates were lower (Table 5). Extraordinary
rediscount quotas ("hors cote") are sometimes given for special
purposes. From 1987, rediscounts at fixed rates will be available
only to finance priority sectors as noted in para. 3.03, and thia
includes agriculture;
(c) Activity ratio requirement."' Since September 1986, commercial
banks have been required to comply with a specific minimum
medium-term credits/deposits ratio for the financing of priority
activities (agriculture, export, small-scale enterprises and
energy-saving activities). Each commercial bank must have at least
71 of its core deposits loaned out to these priority activities in
September 1986, 8% in March 1987; SI1 in September 1987; and 101 in
March 1988.  If the ratio is not met, the unused portion of the
deposits is frozen in a BCT account and bears no interest; and
(d) The National Guarantee Fund (FNG). The FNG ("Fonds National de
Garantie"), created by law in December 1981 but operational only
since end 1984, is managed by BCT. The FNG guarantees loans that
commercial banks make from their own and borrowed resources to small-
and medium-size enterprises principally in agriculture, and primarily
for the establishment or expansion of production units and their
export operations. An FNG guarantee covers 701 of outstanding
principal.  The commercial banks (including BNT) must bear the
remaining 301 of the default risk (51 for loans granted through
SCMAs) plus interest. FNG's funds come from the following sources:
(i) a 5/81 levy on short-term bank overdrafts not representing
rediscountable credits; (ii) a one-time levy of 1/81 on investment
loans not eligible for FNG guarantee granted by banks out of their
equity resources to non-agricultural sectors; and (iii) a 1/8%
one-time levy (22 for short-term loans through SCMAs) on the total
amount of guaranteed credit, which is paid by the beneficiaries /2
of such guarantees. In January 1986 the total accumulated resources
of FNG amounted to D 22 million with D 5 million allocated to
liquidate bankrupt SCMAs and D 5 million to compensate for
irrecoverable export credits. The operations of FNG could provide
more effective risk coverage in agriculture. Measures would be
introduced under the Project to achieve this (para. 6.05).
l/ Ratio des activites prioritaires.
2/ i.e., commercial banks' customers who are eligible to the FNG guarantee.
(3 1. £ 35)



- 9-
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT)
3.09     BNT, a Government-controlled bank, occupies a unique position in the
Tunisian banking system, as it provides virtually all medium- and long-term
financing extended to the agricultural sector. Set up initially by the State
in 1959 as the National Agricultural Bank, a specialized agricultural credit
institution, BNT was expanded into a multipurpose commercial bank in 1969.
The decision to diversify BNT's operations and to maintain its viability as a
financial institution was complemented by Government's decision to entrust to
BNT the management of numerous special subsidized agricultural credit programs
including the important Special Fund for Agricultural Development (FOSDA)
(para. 3.15). BNT is now one of the two largest commercial banks in Tunisia
with a network of about 113 domestic branches or offices, about 20 % of total
deposits of the banking sector, and 26% of the financial system's total
outstanding credit to the economy. BNT has substantially expanded its lending
in commerce and industry and these activities represent now 60S of BNT total
lending operations, while agriculture1' accounts for about 401. The lending
commitments in agriculture of BNT and other commercial banks are shown in
Table 4. The institutional and financial appraisal of BNT is in Chapter IV.
Other Commercial Banks
3.10     Other commercial banks in Tunisia are generally reluctant to finance
the agricultural sector, particularly at farm level, because the interest rate
ceilings set by Government/BCT are well below market rates and do not cover
costs and risks. In addition, the lack of clear land titles in Tunisia makes
it difficult for most farmers, particularly small farmers, to qualify for term
credit under the banks' normal collateral requirements. Moreover, Government
subsidized credit programs undercut the banks. Government policy under the
medium-term adjustment program is, however, to encourage increased lending to
agriculture by the commercial banks by introducing certain needed reforms
(paras. 6.03 to 6.11) which would make such lending profitable, help mobilize
additional resources for the agricultural sector, and expand and diversify
banking services provided to private farmers throughout the country.
Cooperative Credit Institutions1/
3.11     The cooperative credit movement has remained relatively undeveloped
in Tunisia. The main institutions involved are the CLCM's ("Caisses Locales
de Credit Mutuel") and the SCMA's ("Societes de Caution Mutuelle Agricoles").
The CLCM's, first set up in 1963, provide their members with banking services.
including agricultural credit. In 1969, there were 54 CLCMs with some 78,000
members. By 1982, most of them had been absorbed as branches of BNT except in
the Cap-Bon region. Currently there are 16 CLCMs with a total of 30,000
members, but with a few exceptions, their role in financing agriculture is
1J In 1980, agricultural commitments represented 452 of BNT's total
commitment8; in 1981 this figure was 441, and in 1985 381.  Over the past
five years, agricultural lending commitments rose by 132 on average, as
compared with 201 for other lending. On average, BNT makes 30,000
agricultural loans a year.
2/ Details are in Annex 2.
Ta3 113)



- 10 -
relatively small. The SCMA's, first established in 1973-74 (at Government
rather than farmer initiative), are organizations whose main purpose is to
give partial guarantees of BNT loans extended to small and medium farmers, who
constitute the bulk of SCMA shareholder members. There are currently about
407 SCMAs with a total of 77,000 members.  However, SCMAs have proved to be
too weak financially to play an effective role in credit transactions, and
their arrears are large even after the payment by the Government of D 1.5
million in 1983 to liquidate bankrupt SCMAs. The SCMAs are expected to be
replaced in the future by private associations of producers and water users
with access to institutional credit.
National Bank for kgricultural Development (BNDA)
3.12     BNDA, a Government development bank, was created in 1983 to finance
comprehensive investment programs for large commercial farmers. Its equity
capital amounts to D 30 million (D 7.5 million paid-in), and BNDA depends
heavily on recurrent external donor funding, notably EEC/EIB soft term
financing. Although the Government tried to improve the agricultural credit
system by establishing BNDA, it did not address the major problems in the
agricultural credit subsector: low interest rates/spreads, overall
inefficiency of the credit delivery systems and Governw,nt intervention (para.
3.14). The rationale for an additional institution is rather weak. BNDA is
the principal client of the Agricultural Development Promotion Agency (APIA),
created in November 1982. BNDA extends financing at subsidized interest rates
for investment projects which APIA promotes and for which the investors also
obtain direct Gnvernment subsidies. The interest subsidy is reimbursed by the
Government to BNDA as a privilege reserved to this bank. BNDA approved 100
such loans to agriculture in 1984 and 184 in 1985, i.e., total approved
financing of D 64 million over the two years. However, against these
approvals, signed loan agreements amounted to only D 18 million at the end of
1985. BNDA now handles about 4% of total banking system credit to the
agricultural sector, has sufficient capital, and is expanding its operations
despite limited staff (50 persons in Tunis, no field offices). BNDA is well
run, but in the long term, like other specialized institutions with a limited
portfolio, will find it difficult to mobilize local resources. Given that
BNDA has been established, its most logical role would be to continue to
concentrate on some larger farm investments. This implies that a close
relationship between BNDA, BNT, and other Tunisian banks is essential for
developing an efficient inter-bank communication network on client
creditworthiness. Ultimately, it is not excluded that BNDA be merged with BNT.
D. Problems in Agricultural Credit
3.13     The institutional and policy problems that weaken Tunisia's
agricultural credit system are currently emphasized by the financial
constraints bringing the Government to question the level and rationale for
its intervention in the agricultural credit system. Studies and reviews
undertaken by the Government, BCT, BNT, and certain donors during 1985-86 have
led to a redefinition of agricultural credit problems and a consensus on
potential solutions, which form the basis for the proposals made under the
Project.
Sectoral Problems Relevant to Agricultural Credit
3.14     Specific problems in agricultural credit requirin4g priority attention
are as follows:
< 3 1 1 3 t



- 11 -
(a)  Inadequacy of interest rates and intermediation agreads.  The
interest rate -eilings established by Government through BCT do not
permit banks  .o cover full financial and operating costs, which
almost precludes normal commercial bank lending for agriculture, and
inhibits BNT's specialized intervention. The average cost of funds
to BNT (para. 4.16), for example, is about 5-6X, and a minimum spread
of 42 is estimated as necessary to cover operating costs and allow
adequate provision for bad debts. Thus, to break even on agriculture
operations, BNT's interest rates should be at least 9-10%. They
currently average 7S, and spreads are therefore only 2-3%. Recent
ctrrective measures include: (i) an increase in interest rates by
0.75-22 in 1985 (Table 5); and (ii) Government agreement under the
ASAL in 1986 (para. 3.15) to carry out under the five-year action
program a further acceptable increase in 1987 (para. 6.03) as a
condition of second tranche release;
(b) Accumulation of arrears. This is BNT's most serious problem because
it undermines the repayment discipline of borrowers and hinders the
development of an effective credit system. The overall rate of
recovery on BNT's agricultural loans (including FOSDA loans) was
about 72% at end 1985, which is unsatisfactory. Recovery performance
(Table 6) is worse on FOSDA loans (481), which are, in fact, all
approved by the credit committee of the Ministry of Agriculture at
regional or central levels, although BNT is responsible for
collection of loan repayments. BNT's arrears were addressed with
only limited success until 1984, when Government took the following
measures:  "Privil6ge d'Etat'"1  was given to BNT to help recovery
actions; sanct'ons against defaulters were introduced including no
further loans granted; debt rescheduling when overdues are linked to
natural disarl a was introduced; the decree making operational the
National Guarantee Fund was issued; and specific provisions for bad
debts were made. In June 1985, BNT introduced further measures to
increase recoveries. In particular, BNT (i) transmitted to the
Ministry of Finance a list of 30 farmers in serious default on BNT
loans with a view to application of the "Privilege d'Etat" to provide
an example of BNT resolve to improve recovery performance; (ii) began
deducting loan repayments from crop payments for farmers selling less
than 100 quintals of cereals (already done for farmers selling more
than 100 quintals); (iii) enlisted the cooperation of regional and
local authorities and the
l/ The "Privilege d'Etat" (or"PrivilUge du Tr6sor") is a forceful measure
enacted by law, which has been granted to BNT to help the recovery of
loans to farmers in serious default. As a result, Government can enforce
loan recovery through the tax collectors of the Ministry of Planning and
Finance and thereby short-circuit the lengthy and uncertain litigation
process normally used by financial institutions against defaulters. The
measure is also valid for FOSDA loans.
X(81 13ag)



- 12 -
Ministry of Agriculture in recovering overdues; and (iv) launched an
advertising campaign emphasizing credit discipline, in the interests
of both improved recovery rates and the timely availability of credit
for the next crop season. Government and BNT efforts to improve
recovery performance are being monitored by the Bank under Loan
1885-TUN and further measures would be introduced under the Project
(paras. 6.07 and 6.14). Table 6 shows BNT's recovery rates from 1981
to 1985 with the progress made since 1984, and risk assumed by BNT;
(c)  Proliferation of agricultural credit programs and lending criteria.
About 30 "special" programs with different appraisal criteria and
lending procedures have been launched for farmers this past decade,
thus creating confusion, high administrative cost, and discrimination
against many small and medium farmers. Simplification of these
systems is needed to improve farmers' access to institutional
credit. Simplification will require: (i) reviewing conditions of
access to credit, (ii) harmonizing subloan appraisal criteria and
lending conditions, (iii) improving the efficiency of
credit-worthiness screening of loan application (selective lending);
(iv) promoting actively credit availability; and (v) improving credit
delivery systems. A study (May 1986) on "agricultural credit
delivery systems in Tunisia, evaluation and perspectives" is
available in the Project file. Specific improvements would be made
under the Project (para. 6.10); and
(d)  Neg,tive influence of the FOSDA program on the National Agricultural
Credit System. The Special Fund for Agricultural Development
(FOSDA), set up in 1963, provides grants and medium- and long-term
subsidized credits to farmers. Since 1982, the amounts of subsidies
have been laid down in the Agricultural Investment Code
(para. 3.06). From 1983 to 1986, for D 24 million of FOSDA loans
disbursed on average each year, about D 10 million additional were
spent in FOSDA subsidies (Table 4). FOSDA resources come from annual
budgetary allocations (about 60%), from the repayment of subloans
(30X) and from foreign aid (USAID and IFAD). FOSDA, together with
the similar but much smaller FOSEP program for fisheries, accounted
for 44Z of total medium- and long-term credit in agriculture in
Tunisia for 1970-84. The FOSDA program, although targeted to small-
and medium-scale farmers 1/, has also benefitted larger-scale
farmers. Prior to 1986, low interest rates used to encourage many
larger farmers to use FOSDA funds in place of commercial bank
resources. Currently, since interest rates are now aligned with
banks onlending rates for agriculture except for long-term credit
(Table 5), a major issue is the inadequacy of screening of FOSDA loan
applications, including the creditworthiness of clients and the
viability of proposed investments. BNT administers FOSDA
l/ The January 14, 1983 decree defines small- and medium-scale farmers by
crop: less than 4 ha for irrigated citrus fruit, 5 ha for vegetables, 7
ha for irrigated fruit other than citrus and olive (but 30 ha if rainfed),
60 ha for intensive cropping patterns. The decree does not, however, pay
sufficient attention to revenues in its definition. In a statement of
April 1987, the Government has agreed that appropriate weight will be
given to farm revenues (para. 6.06) to determine credit eligibility.



- 13 -
disbursements and recoveries at a regulated 2b management fee on
subloans and with a 1001 Government guarantee on default since BNT
does not have the final say on the approval of loans. This system
does not lead to good recovery performance. The costly FOSDA
program, which is reaching less than 102 of the eligible farmers,
undermines the willingness of the Tunisian banks to participate in
agricultural lending, and greatly inhibits recovery discipline. In
turn, the availability of subsidized FOSDA credit has, in many cases,
inhibited the Government from increasing farm output prices to the
extent needed to make production profitable and encourage farmers to
make new investments. Overall, there is confusion between subsidy
and credit which is not conducive to the financial education of
borrowers as reflected in abnormally low recovery rates (Table 6). A
priority objective of the Government's new policies for the
agricultural credit system is to reorganize the FOSDA system by
transferring its credit part to the banking sector, i.e., BNT, and
introduce a greater selectivity in targeting subsidies. This reform
weuld be supported by the Project (paras. 6.04 and 6.06).
E. Credit Reforms Under the Medium-Term
Arloultural Sector Adjstment Progrm (1987-91)
3.15     The medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program (1987-91),
which Government agreed to implement in connection with the ASAL, contains an
action plan of measures designed te achieve the following reform objectives in
agricultural credit:
(a) improving the mobilization of the commercial banks' internal
resources ( by encouraging rural savings) and moving steadily towards
fungibility of the funds available to banks for agricultural credit;
(b)  progressively reducing, in step with mobilization of other resources
and improved recoveries, the State budget allocations for credit
under FOSDA, FOSEP and other special funds with the ultimate
objective of better targetting to beneficiaries of the resources of
these funds;
(c) progressively transferring to BNT and the banking sector part of the
risk guaranteed by the State;
(d) applying the cost recovery methods authorized, particulai1y the
"privil'ege de l'Etat", rescheduling some debts where justified, for
example in the case of natural calamities, and studying the
possibility of tax relief for banks' provisions for doubtful
agricultural debts;
(e) increasing the interest rates authorized for lending to agriculture
to cover the banks' financial costs, reasonable operating costs and a
reasonable part of the risks involved, such levels to be reached by
1991, further to the recommendations of an analysis of the
profitability of agricultural credit operations;
(f) redefining the eligibility of small and medium-size farmers for bank
credit, taking their incomes into account, among other things, s8 as
to give more farmers access to bank credit; and
(3113Z)



- 14 -
(g) harmonizing terms, conditiots and procedures for making loans to
agriculture and fisheries.
3.16     Under the ASAL, the Government agreed to carry out the following
specific measures as first steps in the 5-year action plan: (a) a first
acceptable interest rate increase, as a condition of second tranche release;
and (b) the reduction and better targeting to beneficiaries of budgetary
allocations 'o the FO0DA, with current, sharply reduced levels to be
maintained in 1987 and a further l5S reduction in allocations to be made in
1988. The Project would suppprt the reform program through further measures
designed to achieve the impr%vements sought in the credit system (paras. 6.02
to 6.11).                    , 
IV. THE NATIONAL BANK OF TUNEISA (BNT)
A. OrxnizAtion and Staffing
Organization and Management
4.01     The establishment of the National Agricultural Bank in 1959, its
conversion into a multipurpose Government-controlled commercial bank (BNT) in
1969, and BNT's position in the Tunisian banking system are described in para.
3.09. BNT's objectives as set forth in its by-laws are: (a) to promote
economic and agricultural development in Tunisia by providing short-, medium-
and long-term loans and equity financing to private and public investors,
companies, farmers and cooperatives for production, processing and marketing
activities, and (b) to receive demand, time and savings deposits, advance and
refinancing facilities, and to administer special Government resources and
resources raised abroad by the Government. To achieve its objectives, BNT
prepares and implements annua,I lending programs in consultation with the
Government and develops its bankint activities and branch network to increase
deposits and savings.
4.02     BNT's credit and banking services are provided at headquarters and at
84 multipurpose branches, 7 specialized agricultural offices, 6 currency
exchange offices and 16 CLCMs (para. 3.11) (Map No. IBRD 14921R). From 1984
to 1986, about 15 new branches were opened. BNT has also nine regional
offices. BNT's branch network provides an adequate infrastructure for
carrying out the credit programs to be supported by the Project.
4.03     BNT is administered by a board of directors and a President-Director
General who is the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer of
the bank. The board of directors includes representatives of the Ministry of
Planning and Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Cereal Board
(OC), the National Olive Oil Board (ONE), the Trade Board of Tunisia (OCT),
the Tunisian Agricultural Mutual Insurance Company, two representatives of the
private sector, and since 1986 the National Bank for Agricultural Development
(BNDA). The board of directors appoints the President-Director General among
its members. A financial controller is appointed by the Ministry of Finance
to report to Government on BNT compliance with pertinent laws, and an
independent private auditor is hired by BNT to audit annv'lly BNT's financial
statements before they are approved by the board at the annual meeting each
April/May.
4.04     BNT's top management is experienced and capable.  However, BNT's
head uarters needs reorganization, and the ongoing process of decentralization



- 15 -
of responsibilities to the regional offices needs revitalizing. At
headquarters, 13 departments report directly to the chief executive officer.
This presents some coordination problems. BNT is therefore considering the
advantages of consolidating these units into three departments to streamline
operations, i.e., Credit (agriculture, industry, comberce, technical and legal
support, portfolio, overseas), Commercial-' (deposits, promotion of bank
services, development, supervision of regional directions) and Administration
(personnel, finance, accounting, treasury9 banking services, electronic data
processing, general services). The Regional Offices also need to be
restructured and reinforced along similar lines. These changes should help to
speed up the currently slow decision-making and citculation of information as
well as enable all field offices to achieve the aims of decentralization. In
addition, BNT needs to strengthen (a) its strategic and operational planning,
and (b) its management information systems including financial management,
accounting, management control, subloan procedures and supervision, and
electronic data processing. Under the Project, BNT would take action to
improve its organization and introduce better planning and MIS (paras. 5.09
and 6.23).
Staffing and staff training
4.05     As of September 30, 1986, BNT staff numbered 1992, of which 782 are
men and 22X women:
Men        Women        Total       %
Management                              91             7           98       5
Professional Staff                     325            33         358       18
Support Staff                         1133           403        1536       77
TOTAL                       lw2
The staff is relatively young and well educated:  741 are less than 40 years
old; 60S are high school graduates, 30S are college graduates and 3% have
masters or doctoral degrees. The ratio of support staff to higher level staff
is relatively high (772) compared to international standard practices in the
banking sector.
BNT STAFF DISTRIBUTION
1983      1984       1985     1986
Headquarters                            51S        502       522       502
Branches                                47 2      482        47T       49X
CLCMs                                    2 2        22        12        12
Total number of staff                                                  a
2 increase                        4 S        5%         72       22
About 725 of BNT's staff (184 of them full time) work on agricultural
lending.  About 74% of the 725 are in field offices, which means more
decentralization of agricultural operations than of overall activities (472).
Agricultural credit staff include 54 high level technicians, of whom 40 work
1/ "Exploitation", in French
3 1 1 3  )



- 16 -
in rural branches. Every new employee receives induction tra.ining of one week
to several months depending on his position. In addition, the training
division in BNT prepares and implements continuous in-service training
programs in various activities. However, a recent evaluation and survey of
needs carried out during project preparatica have shown that current training
programs should be upgraded and custom-tailored to address skill-gaps in the
interest of both BNT and its key staff. The proposed project-related training
program is summarized para. 5.11, and is detailed in the project working
document no. 9. Staff dedication is high but motivation and productivity are
impaired since salaries are not related to performance and firing is
essentially impossible. BNT's personnel policies could be improved by better
staff rewards, e.g. end-of-year merit bonuses granted according to
well-defined performance criteria such as productivity, achievements, quality
of work and innovations, relationships with peers and customers. Bonuses
could be up to two months' salary for outstanding performance. Compensation
should be offered to field staff for overtime work during peak periods
(seasonal credit, recovery campaigns). Staff access to improved training
programs should also be a motivator for improved productivity. Under the
Project, BNT would carry out a review of its staff compensation system in
collaboration with the Government, and take measures to implement any possible
agreed recommendations for improved compensation incentives.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.06     Within BNT, agricultural credits are distributed on the basis of
funds available to the bank: (a) BNT's own funds, and (b) Government special
funds which usually combine budgetary and external funds. For loans out of
BNT funds and IBRD funds, BNT alone decides on whether or not the purpose is
appropriate and bears the risk itself. For loans made under Government
special funds, decisions for granting loans are not made by BNT but by
officials of the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 3.14 (c) and (d)). Each
special fund or project has a different purpose, and conditions of lending
vary. This disparity in funding and commitment authority is also reflected in
how BNT headquarters departments are organized, with regard to both credit
delivery and management of resources. The current BNT objectives on lending
policies and procedures are to simplify them to enable a more efficient use of
available funds, a better harmonization of procedures and further
decentralization of loan processing at branch level, with a view to improving
the quality and financial efficiency of the bank's agricultural lending
services nationwide. Under the Project, a plan of action is proposed to
develop an improved credit delivery system (para. 6.10).
C. Agricultural Lending Operations
4.07     BNT's share in agricultural credit.  BNT accounts for about 902 of
the medium- and long-term and 561 of the short-term credit extended to
agriculture by the banking system (Table 4). BNT medium- and long-term
commitments in agriculture were D 162 million in 1985. Agricultural lending
commitments represented 40% of total BNT lending in 1985. Recent trends are
as follows:



- 17 -
BNT LENDING COMMITMENTS
1983    1984      1985       1983    1984    1985
--In Million Dinars--               --    ---------
ARriculture  La               237      274       311         39       38      38
Short-term                  107      128      149           -        -       -
Medium- and long-term       130      146      162           -        -       -
Commerce/Industry             368      443      509          61       62      62
Total BNT                   605      717      820         100      100     130
/a Annual growth in real terms of 162 in 1984 and 142 in 1985.
4.08     Sources of BNT's funds for agriculture.  The sources of BNT's funds
are primarily its own resources for short-term production loans (732), BCT
refinancing facilities for crop marketing finance (80X), and special
Government resources (including FOSDA) and Bank Loan 1885-TUN for medium- and
long-term credit (84%).
4.09     Short-term credit.  BNT's short-term credit to agriculture takes two
forms: about 902 of the funds are loans granted directly through its branch
network to regular clients, who are generally farmers with relatively high
incomes and good repayment records; the remaining 10 are loans granted
through the SCMAs and CLCMs (para. 3.11). In 1985, BNT granted about 31,150
short-term loans (12,000 farmers) for a total of D 46.4 million. This
includes 4,597 loans through the SCMAs for D 3.7 million, and 328 loans
through the CLCMs for D 0.2 million. Loans through SCMAs and CLCMs have
declined sharply in recent years. About 442 of total BNT short-term credit is
used for essentially cereals, vegetables, orchards (olive and date palm trees)
production, and livestock. The remaining 56X finances crop marketing.
4.10     Medium- and long-term investment loans.  BNT's total medium- and
long-term agricultural credit amounted to D 20.2, 21.7 and 31.3 million
respectively in 1983, 1984 and 1985; disbursements from its own resources
accounted for 71, 5S End 1%. BNT currently grants an average of some 10,000
medium- and long-term credits annually (8,000 FOSDA loans but the trend is now
declining). About 80% of these are medium-term subloans, the rest long-term
subloans. For the period 1980-85 medium-term loans were used, by decreasing
importance, to finance investments in livestock (33%), irrigation (272), farm
machinery (241), fishery (8S), fruit tree plantations (41) and others (41).
Under the third line of credit financed by the World Bank (Ln. 1885-TUN), BNT
granted 2337 subloans in 1985 (total of 7,153 cumulative subloans at the end
of 1985) of which 851 were granted to small and med_um-scale farmers. The
average amount of these subloans is D 2,800. The average amount of subloans
to small and medium farmers is D 940.
4.11     Recoveries.  Although loan recoveries improved from 682 in 1983 to
72% in 1985 after several years of deterioration, performance remains
unsatisfactory and further measures to reduce arrears are a major imperative
for BNT's management to address. Failure of farmers to repay their debts on
time, or sometimes to repay them at all remains a serious problem (para.
3.14b). Key indicators on BNT loan recovery for 1981 to 1985 with risk
assumed by BNT by type of resources are detailed in Table 4 and summarized
below as of December 31, 1985:
(31 13K)



- 18 -
Risk Assumed          Recovery Rate
bY ENT               (on Principal) La
BNT's own resources                   100                      90
SCMAS                                 0-5                      39
World Bank                         25-100                   65-83
FOSDA/FOSEP                             0                      48
Supervised Projects                  0-40                   20-61
Average Recovery Rate                                          72
L After payment of interest due.
Measures taken in 1984 and 1985 to enforce collection of arrears are described
in para. 3.14b. Agricultural loans recoveries can be further improved - after
writing off uncollectible arrears and rescheduling certain debts in case of
drought - by giving BNT and the banking sector more control on approval of
subloans, an adequate spread (para. 4.17) and a higher part of the risk
assunmed, so that the banks can play a normal and active role in enforcing
collection. Specific proposals are included in the Project (paras. 6.07 and
6.09).
D. Fimlal Situation ad Peformance
Financial Condition
4.12     Resources.  As of December 31, 1985, BNT's total balance sheet
amounted to D 866.1 million (US$1,125 million). This represented a yearly
compounded increase of 161 over the 1981-85 per'od (total 1981 assets:
D 471.6 million). Folloving is a distribution of resources (liabilities) for
1983 to 1985:



- 19 -
BNT RESOURCES AT YEAR-END /a
(in D million)
1983               1984             1985
Amount     2       Amount    X    Amount       2
Authorized Capital             12.0      2        12.0     2      12.0 Lb    I
Reserves                      18.1       3        20.9     3     24.0        3
Total Equity                  30.1       5        32.9     4     36.0        4
Provisions                     17.5      3        23.1     3     30.3        3
Special Funds /c             119.2      18       145.9    19    164.0       19
Deposits                     327.9      50       377.9    48    431.3       50
Other Liabilities            159.2      24       200.2    26    204.5       24
Total Liabilities            623.8      95       747.1    96    830.1       96
TOTAL                        653.9    100        780.0   100    866.1      100
/a  After profit allocation
/b  Increased to D 23.0 million on January 1, 1986 by incorporation of D 3
million of reserves and subscription of D 8 million worth of new BNT
shares.
/c  of which FOSDA about 49S, FOSEP 122; past IBRD/IDA Loans 20X; and cthers
19X.
Prior to the 1986 capital increase from D 12 million to D 23 million (see
above table note (b)), BNT had a relatively low capitalization as measured by
its debt-to-equity (leverage) ratio. This ratio deteriorated slightly from
22.7:1 in 198h to 23.1:1 in 1985, but then improved to 18.7:1 on January 1,
1986 as a result of the D 8 million capital increase. This new ratio compares
favorably to a leverage of 20:0 for all Tunisian deposit banks. BNT's
relatively high capitalization ratio is acceptable because BNT administers
special Government funds on which it receives a 2% management fee on
outstanding loans as well as a 1002 guarantee on default. However, with the
development of its agricultural portfolio and the transfer of part of the
risks from Government to BUT on special funds lending (para. 3.14), BNT should
still strengthen its capital base to better cushion possible future loan
losses. This can be achieved by reinvesting some future profits (BNT's
financial targets 1986-1990 are in Annex 5, Table 5). Long-term borrowings,
which include World Bank/IDA loans/credits for the three previous agricultural
credit projects represent less than 10S of BNT total resources in 1985 and
under 92 in 1986; this gives a favorable ratio of long-term debt-to-equity,
which should allow BNT to borrow more.
4.13     Deposits.  The relative share of deposits in BNT's total resources
was 501 in 1985, unchanged from the 1983 level. The number of depositors
increased, however, from 172,000 in 1983 to 238,000 in 1985. Core deposits
are primarily those repayable on demand (sight deposits or current accounts),
which umounted to D 248.1 million in 1985, up from D 210.2 million in 1983.
Time deposits (term and savings deposits) increased from D 118 million in 1983
to D 173 million in 1985. BNT has been only moderately successful in
mobilizing deposits, in'spite of an expanding branch network (para. 4.02),
which represents about 302 of the total number of bank branches in Tunisia.
Rural savings have stagnated. To increase them, BNT plans to offer savings
schemes under which participating farmers will become eligible for future
loans (para. 6.08).



- 20 -
4.14     Loans/deposits ratio.  In lending its own resources, BNT has
established a basic portfolio of quality loans which provides an adequate
degree of protection to depositors. However, BNT has a relatively high ratio
of risk assets55 to deposits of 1.10 but the ratio is a more conservative
and acceptable 0.73 if special fund loans, which are 100% Government
guaranteed, are excluded. Presently, more than 50% of BNT subloans, in
particular in agriculture, are not financed out of core deposits, but of
Government special resources (for medium-term subloans) and BCT refinancing
facilities (for crop marketing finance). Details are in Annex 5, Table 4.
Loan Portfolio Quality
4.15     Collection performence and appropriate provisions are good indicators
of Loan portfolio quality. The average recovery rate for agricultural
subloans is 90X when BNT is at full risk (average of 722 if Government funds
are included). For commercial loans, the average rate of recovery is 95S,
with most of the remaining 5% being only temporarily overdue. The overall
ratio of provisions for losses (D 30.3 million in 1985 or 3.7% of BNT's
outstanding portfolio of D 820 millio% in 1985 of which D 311 million for
agriculture) is comparatively higher than that of other Tunisian comwercial
banks and is above the 32 minimum mandated by the BCT. The ratio of the
agricultural credit provision to the outstanding agricultural portfolio for
which BNT assumes the risk of default is 4.9%, and this is natisfactory vnder
the present risk-sharing conditions.  It is proposed to main.ain an adequate
policy for bad debt provision under the Project (para. 6.05).
Overall operating results and profitability
4.16     BNT's overall operating results are positive but its profitability
can be improved. BNT's financial status for 1981-85 is presented in the
summary balance sheets, income statements, and flow of funds statements in
Annex 5, Tables 1 to 4. BNT's net income in 1985 for its consolidated
operations was D 4.2 million, to be compared with D. 3.8 million in 1984, and
3.4 million in 1983. BNT's financial performance during this period can be
summarized as follows:
/l Loans, and bills discounted.



- 21 -
BNT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1983-85
(D million)
1983           1984           1985
Interest income                      36.8            45.)          56.3
Interest expense                    (19.2)          (27.2)        (36.2)
Operating Income                     17.6            18.7          20.1
Staff cost /a                         8.8             9.4          10.1
Depreciation                          0.6             0.7            1.0
Other expenses                        3.2             3.7           4.0
Operating Expense                   (12.6)          (13.8)        (15.1)
Net Operating Result /b               5.0             4.9           5.0
Other income /c                       8.0             9.4          12.4
Provisions for losses                (4.7)           (6.4)          (8.5)
Profit before Tax                     8.3             7.9           8.9
Tax on Profit                        (4.9)           (4.1)          (4.7)
Net Profit after Tax                  3.4             3.8           4.2
Dividends Paid (%) /d                 302             282            262
Ratios ():
Return on assets (pre-tax)           1.36            1.10          1.08
Return on equity (pre-tax)          28.7            24.9          25.8
/a  of which 67f  for commercial and 332 for agricultural activities (1984)
/b  Operating income less operating expense
/c Import-Export fees on agricultural products and management fees on loans
out of Government special funds (FOSDA, FOSEP, etc.)
/d as S of net profit after tax (net income)
BNT's average cost of funds in 1985 was roughly 5X, varying from 1% to 9%
according to the source. Details of costs of resources and returns for
1983-85 are shown in Table 7.
4.17     Financial Viability of BNT's Agricultural Credit Operations.
Although BNT's overall operating results remain positive, the bank's
profitability and financial performance are adversely affected by important
losses on its agricultural credit activities because of the low interest rate
ceilings imposed by Government. BNT's agricultural lending operations
resulted in D 3.0 million in pre-tax losses in 1985 and D 13.3 million in
accumulated losses for the period 1980-85 (Table 8). BNT's average gross
spread (1.6S in 1984) is too small even to cover normal operating expenses,
let alone support the burden of unpaid loans. BNT, in effect, subsidizes its
agricultural loans from its profits on commercial and industrial operations.
In the medium-term, however, the prevailing interest rate policy will be
putting BNT under increasing financial strain and reduce its ability for
responding to the rising demand for credit in the agricultural sector. Thus,
on institutional, budgetary and sectoral grounds, there are strong reasons to
address the interest rate issue as proposed under the Project (para. 6.03).
(3113E)



- 22 -
E. BNT's DevelopDment ObleoUves and Strategy
4.18     BNT has defined the following medium-term development objectives
consistent with its by-laws (para. 4.01) and with the Government's strategy
for agriculture for 1987-91 (Annex 6). BNT's objectives are to:
(a) assure the continuity of BNT by sound policies of work organization,
staffing, business development, financial viability (e.g., to break
even on agricultural credit operations), and relations with
shareholders, borrowers, depositors, and financiers;
(b) improve its future resource position to meet the currently planned
levels of commercial and agricultural lending, by mobilizing
additional demand, time and savings deposits, as well as new external
funds during the project period;
(c) develop long-term plans to strengthen its agricultural portfolio and
ensure that BNT continues to have an effective role as a lead bank in
the financing of the agricultural sector;
(d) pursue the decentralization of its credit operations by setting
annual objectives at decentralized levels of operations for the use
of funds, savings, and loan recovery and by opening new branches in
rural areas; and
(e) simplify management tasks and procedures for some of its banking
products, in particular in agriculture, by improving the processing
and supervision of loans and operations and modernizing its
management information systems (MIS).
To help BNT achieve these objectives, the project includes financing for MIS
software, computer equipment and staff training (para. 5.02). The resulting
projected impact on BNT's overall financial position and network at end 1990
is summarized in para. 7.08 and detailed in Annex 5 (tables 5 to 8).
F. BNT's Projected Aricultural Lending Program and
Financing Requirements (1987-1990)
4.19     Based on past trends (Table 9), the Government's objectives and
investment priorities under the 1987-91 Plan, and BNT's own lending (Table 10)
and development strategy, BNT's total agricultural lending is projected to
increase significantly during the coming years:



- 23 -
BNT PROJECTED LENDING COMMITMENTS IN AGRICULTURE
(in D Million)
Estimated Actual               Projected ------
1986 /a  1987   1988   1989   1990
Normal Weather Conditions lb
Short-term credit                 165      191    223    262    312
Medium- and long-term             172      197    223    251    278
TOTAL                             337      388    446    513    590
La Drought in 1986.
{b  Annual growth of total commitments in real terms of about 15% from 1987 to
1990, and attainment of a ratio of short-term to medium-term credit of 1:1
in 1988.  Should irregular weather conditions occur, annual growth of
total commitments in real terms would be about 10X.
The resources necessary to finance such a lending program will essentially
come from (a) the repayment of outstanding subloans; (b) increased deposit
mobilization; (c) BCT refinancing facilities; (d) sharply reduced Government
funds; and (e) increased external sources. The project would provide part of
the external financing necessary for medium- and long-term credit.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Rationle for Bank Involvement
5.01   The project has been designed in the light of experience gained under
the third and previous credit lines (Annex 1), and the ASAL discussions to
help the Government implement the reforms of the credit system envisaged under
the Government's medium-term adjustment program agreed with the Bank. The
main objectives regarding agricultural credit set by the Government for
1987-91 are to:
(a) increase its financing to Agriculture to promote the growth of
agricultural productivity and rural income;
(b) increase domestic resource mobilization; and
(c) ensure the financial viability of credit operations.
The Project would assist BNT and Government in meeting these national
and sectoral objectives, and throu,1h institutional building it would help:
(a) restructure the complex institutional system by which agricultural
credit is made available and improve small- and meditum-scale farmers'
access to bank's credit;



- 24 -
(b) address sectoral issues of on-lending interest rates designed to
support BNT and the banking sector to increase their role in
mobilizing resources and in financing agriculture;
(c) introduce new approaches to harmonize credit terms and conditions,
and to improve the financial viability of agricultural credit
operations;
(d) give more emphasis to private investment in the agricultural sector
to meet Government objective of raising investment in the sector; and
(e) promote savings schemes tied to eligibility for agricultural credit.
The Bank's presence will be catalytic in achieving these objectives more
rapidly, and in setting the stage to bring other commercial banks into
agricultural lending over the next three to five years. Bank's assistance is
also justified by the project's support for the policy measures cited in
paras. 6.03 to 6.11 which will complement reforms agreed under the ASAL I
(paras. 3.?15 and 3.16). BNT has been selected as the borrower, as in past
credit lines, because it is a creditworthy institution, and also the lead bank
in agricultural Lending in Tunisia.
B. Summary Descrption of Proiect Components
5.02     To achieve the above objectives, the Project would support a
three-year time slice of BNT's activities to provide financing for its
agricultural credit operations, and institutional development:
(a)  BNT Credit Program:  (i) on-farm investments by small, medium and
large private farmers, with special focus on increasing the resources
lent to the first two groups; (ii) investments by production and
service cooperatives; (iii) agricultural and agro-industry
investments carried out by small- and medium-scale enterprises; and
(iv) investments in equipment and major repairs by creditworthy
fishermen who already have fishing boats, perform well, and have a
good repayment record;
(b) Institutional Development: (i) the MIS software, equipment and
training needed to modernize and strengthen, on a decentralized
basis, BNT's organizational structure, planning process, management
control, accounting systems, and loan monitoring system; and (ii) the
strengthening of the agricultural credit policy coordination between
the Ministries of Planning and Finance, and Agriculture/Agricultural
Production, the Central Bank (BCT) in particular, BNT and BNDA.
C. Detailed Features
BNT Credit Program
5.03     On-Farm Investments by Small- and Medium-Private Farmers.  This
component would finance all types of productive agricultural investments for
small- and medium-farms. Medium- and long-term lending would be in response
to market demand, which on the basis of past experience is expected to include
(31 135)



- 25 -
a broad spectrum of investments in irrigation development, livestock sheds,
farm equipment, cattle, sheep, forage development, and tree crop plantations.
Small- and medium-farmers would be defined as those whose pre-investment net
farm return is not more than D 2,500k' (US$2,800) based on 1987 prices.
Additional conditions of eligibility for small-scale farmers for bank credit
was defined by Government in April 1987 (para. 6.06). The cost of this
component (US$17.7 million) would represent about 32S of BNT credit operations
unde. the Project. The number of beneficiaries is expected to be about
3,400. The average unit cost per operation would amount to D 4,500 (US$5,200).
5.04     On-Farm Investments by Large Private Farmers.  This component would
provide medium- and long-term credit for all types of productive agricultural
investments in response to market demand for commercial farmers whose
pre-investment net farm return exceeds D 2,500 (US$2,800) based on 1987
prices. The expected investments include on-farm silos and related equipment
in addition to those cited in para. 5.03. The cost of this component would
represent US$17.7 million or 322 of BNT credit operations under the project
for an average unit cost per operation of D 25,000 (US$29,000). The number of
beneficiaries is estimated at 615.
5.05     Lending to Cooperatives.  Based on experience, it is expected that
the demand from cooperatives for medium- and long-term credit will come mainly
from agricultural production cooperatives (UCPAs)2'. However, some credit
applications are also expected from service cooperatives (CSAs), Farmer
Associations for Joint Farm Development (SCMVs) for date palm plantations in
the Tozeur region, and Water User Associations (WUAs) or Associations of
Common Interest (AICs) for oasis irrigation in the Gabes region. Envisaged
investments would be made for farm machinery, transport and irrigation
equipment, and on-farm storage facilities. The cost of this component (US$5.5
million) would represent about 101 of BNT credit operations under the
Project. The number of beneficiary cooperatives is expected to be 160, i.e.,
about 53 p.a., for an average unit cost per operation of D 30,000 (US$34,500).
5.06     Lending to Agro-Industries.  Under this component, sub-borrowers
would be primarily private small- and medium-size enterprises, in particular
those employing about 10-50 workers. Subloans would finance civil works,
equipment, and minimum working capital requirements of investments designed to
create jobs in rural areas, provide outlets for agricultural products, develop
new subsectors, fill certain unsaturated market segments in the traditional
subsectors, or increase exports. In view of the important investments made
recently in fruit tree and date palms plantations, and the current need for
processing facilities for these products, Project investments are expected to
be mainly for cold storage facilities and fruit and date processing plants,
including both new facilities and the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
1/ This corresponds to 1.3 times the guaranteed interprofessional minimum
salary (SMIG) in Tunisia, in 1987.
2/ UCPAs are described in Annex 7.



- 26 -
facilities. The cost of the agro-industry1i' component (US$7.5 million)
would represent 142 of BNT credit operations under the project, and would go
to some 25 investors, i.e., around 7 to 8 p.a., with an average unit cost per
operation of D 285,000 (US$330,000).
5.07     Fishing Equipment.  Lending to fishermen under the project will be
limited to: (i) fishery activities selected according to the Government's new
priorities and objectives in the subsector &', and (ii) the supply of
engines, major repairs, equipment and fishing gear for the existing fleet of
private fishermen who have a demonstrated record of fishing performance and a
credit recovery rate of at least 90X. In view of the poor record of cost
recovery among certain groups of fishermen, lending under this component would
be highly selective. A certain number of fishermen have high recovery marks,
in Sfax for example, where 601 of the marine fishery fleet is located and
where in 1986 BNT opened a decentralized branch located in Sfax's harbor.
This specialized BNT branch is providing banking services including credit to
a quasi-exclusive clientele of about 2,000 private fishermen. The fishing
activity and its related processing industry are also a clear area of
potential interest cited by other commercial banks than BNT.
5.08     The cost of the project fishery component (US$6.6 million) would
represent about 121 of BNT project-related credit operations. Engine renewal
is expected to interest 55 small boats for coastal fishing and 45 larger boats
for high-sea fishing. The estimated demand for nets and other fishing gear
could interest about 420 small private fishermen, and 120 larger fishermen.
Unit costs are estimated at D 10,000 to D 50,000 (US$11,500 to US$57,500) for
engines and at D 1,000 to 5,000 (US$1,150 to US$5,750) for fishing gear.
Institutional Improvement Program
5.09     Improvement of BNT's Management Information and Computer Systems
(MIS and EDP). The Project would provide for: (a) the setting-up of an
efficient organization and MIS for BNT (para. 4.04) which will include
improved procedures for agricultural subloans appraisal, delivery,
utilization, repayment and monitoring; and (b) the setting-up of the
corresponding electronic data processing (EDP) plan which aims at further
computerization of BNT's (?erations at branch, regional office, and
headquarters' levels in order to reduce costs and improve the speed of credit
operations. The Project would finance in two phases: (i) about 100
microcomputers and related software for the BNT's branches and regional
offices, and three for headquarters (one for agricultural credit operations,
one for the monitoring of Project lending activities, and one for the
management control unit); and (ii) a mainframe comwter to replace the
obsolete one at headquarters, and related office equipment. The Project would
also finance the related training needs (para. 5.11), and the maintenance
contract for the EDP equipment during a three-year period.
1/ The Agro-industry sector is described in detail in the ASAL report
No. P4368-TUN of September 3, 1986, Volume I, Chapter IX.
2/ The Fisheries sub-sector is described in detail in the ASAL report
No. P4368-TUN of September 3, 1986, Volume II, Chapter XIII.



- 27 -
5.10     Technical Assistance.  To assist implementing the Project, the
Project would finance technical assistance by providing: (a) up to five
man-months of consultants to help set up the computerized systems (detailed
terms of reference and costs are in the project working document No. 5); and
(b) seven man-months of additional training specialists from within or outside
Tunisia to a.Jsist BNT's qualified trainers to implement the training programs
(para. 5.11). The total cost of consultants is estimated at US$0.2 million.
5.11     Project-Related Training.  The Project would fund training of BNT and
project-related staff in skills identified by the survey conducted du;ing
project preparation jointly by BNT's Training Division and the Training
Institute of the Professional Association of Banks of Tunisia (APB). Training
programs would include professional and management courses in credit appraisal
and portfolio management for credit staff; accounting for middle level and
operational staff; management control, planning and programming, MIS, and
communication skills for senior staff; EDP for computer staff and computer
users; and banking services for selected support staff. The Project would
also finance professional visits overseas for senior managers, and
familiarization briefings for BNT branch managers on standardized agricultural
credit systems, credit approval, delivery and recovery before the completion
of the merger of the present multiple credit programs into a single fund
(para. 6.10). The Project would also fund, as necessary, the recruitment of
appropriate training specialists (para. 5.10). A total of about 300 BNT staff
would be trained under the Project. Courses on agricultural credit matters
organized in Tunisia will be open to participation by credit staff of other
commercial banks interested in agricultural lending. Details of training
objectives and activities are available in Project working document No. 9.
D. Project Costs and Finan¢ing
5.12     Estimated Cost.  The total project cost is estimated *t US$59 million
equivalent, including US$30 million equivalent (or about 51X) in foreign
exchange and US$9.4 million equivalent in related taxes and duties. Baseline
estimates are expressed in April 1987 prices. The credit component is based
on financial projections that take account of past lending and the increase in
lending conservatively expected under normal weather conditions (para. 4.19).
Physical investment targets have been only approximately estimated since the
indicative lending program would vary in response to the market demand.
Therefore, price contingencies but not physical contingencies, have been
calculated for this component.-"  The institutional component includes price
and physical contingencies, the latter estimated at l0X for the computer
software and hardware, consultant, and training costs. Detailed cost
estimates are presented in Table 11 and are summarized below:
1/ Projected price increases (% p.a.)
1987     1988    1989    1990    1991
Domestic         7.0       7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0
International    3.0       1.0     1.0     1.0      3.5



- 28 -
PROJECT COST SUKMARY Ia
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total  % Foreign   X Total
---      0 million ------       ------ US$ million ------   Exchange        Cost
Medium- and long-term Credit                22         Uli      ui 4L.L                          HiL. 2Q               2.
Private farmers                         16.3      14.5      30.8       19.0        16.4     35.4        47         60
Cooperatives                             1.9       2.9       4.8        2.2         3.3      5.5        60          9
Agro-industries                          2.7        3.8      6.5        3.0         4.5       7.5       59         13
Private fishermen                        3.0       2.7       5.7        3.3         3.3      6.6        50         11
Institutional Qevelopment                    1.2        Li       la         1.5         Li1       4.        63          2
Computer software and hardwate Lb        0.85      2.05      2.9        1.05        2.25      3.3       66          5
Training programs                        0.3       0.1       0.4        0.4         0.1      0.5        30          1
Consultants & Training Specialists    0.05         0.15      0.2        0.05        0.15     0.2        75          1
Total Pro1ect Cost                          25.1       26.       51.3      2Q            .       Hi.0       E1        100
of which:
Total Base Cost                         22.5      24.4      46.9       25.9        28.0     53.9        52          -
Contingencies £/                         2.6        1.8      4.4        3.1         2.0      5.1        40          -
La includes US$9.4 million equivalent of taxes and duties
Lb  includes US$0.3 million of computer maintenance and US$0.2 million of software.
La includes US$0.3 million equivalent of physical contingencies (institutional development), and US$4.8 million
equivalent of price contingencies (credit US$4.5 million, and institutional development US$0.3 million). Total
contingencies represent 9.S% of total base cost or about 8.6% of total project cost.
2968Ep53
5.13        Financing  Plan.   Financing of  the project would be as follows:
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
BNT
Subborrowers           BNT       Government            IBRD
_ ___          _   _         Equity    __Own Funds Contribution  /a   Loan   TOTAL
A.  Small/medium farmers                   2.8             3.8            3.1               8.0      17.7
B.  Large farmers                          5.4             4.3            -                8.0       17.7
C.  Cooperatives                           0.4             0.9            0.7               3.5        5.5
D.  Agro-industries                        2.2             0.8            -                 4.5        7.5
E.  Fishermen                              1.2             1.4            0.5               3.5       6.6
F.   Institutional  Development    -                       1.5            -                 2.5       4.0
TOTAL                      12.0            12.7            4.3              30.0      59.0
2                       20              22               7               51       100
/a   In accordance with the  1982 Agricultural  Investment Code  (para.  3.06).



- 29 -
The proposed Bank loan of US$30 millior. would finance about 51% of total
project costs and 100% of the foreign exchange requirement. The latter would
include BNT's lending operations (US$27.5 million) and the installation and
maintenance of computer software and hardware (US$2.25 million), training
programs (US$100,000), and technical assistance (US$150,000). The loan would
be made *:- NT.  The Government would guarantee repayment and share the
foreign exchange risk with BNT's subborrowers through the Exchange Rate Risks
Fund (FPC) (para. 5.16).
5.14     The Bank loan would be for 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. In light of the overall resource
situation of BNT, retroactive financing up to US$3 million (10 of loan
amount) is recommended for eligible expenditures approved by BNT after
November 30, 1986. The amount retroactively financed would (a) permit
continuous contracting for subloans to private farmers and cooperatives so as
to fill part of the financial gap between the Third and Fourth Lines of
Credit, and (b) allow the loan to cover the foreign exchange cost of the first
phase (MIS Consultants and microcomputers) of BNT's computerization plan so
that the BNT institutional component is not unreasonably delayed. Repayments
of subloans not needed to service the Bank Loan would be recycled by BNT for
additional agricultural subloans.
5.15     Local currency costs would be partly financed by subborrowers' equity
contributions (US$12 million equivalent). The remainder would come from
BNT's own funds (US$12.7 million equivalent), augmented by Government special
resources (US$4.3 million equivalent). Should the Government resources be
reduced or eliminated, BNT would fill any gap in financing needs from its own
funds and/or require increased contributions from subborrowers.
5.16     Treatment of Foreign Exchange Risk.  Until 1985 it was Government
policy to cover 100% of the foreign exchange risk on the Bank and other
foreign loans held by the banking sector. Since April 1985, however, the
banks, including BNT, have been required to contribute funds to the Foreign
Exchange Rate Risks Fund (FPC), which is designed to cover partially or
totally the foreign exchange losses incurred by financial intermediaries on
their foreign loans. BNT thus contributes to the FPC 0.52 on the total credit
granted to its customers in the form of short-term overdraft facilities. This
has been passed on directly to the customers through the increase in interest
charge on overdraft as of April 1985.*' In addition, BCT is required to
contribute between 0.5% and 2.5S to the FPC from the interest received on its
rediscount facilities, which in turn has been reflected in the increases in
the rediscount rates as of April 1985. The increase in the rediscount rates
are paid indirectly by BNT's subborrowers, among others, as the rates of
interest on all loans were increased by 0.75X-22 in April 1985 to offset in
part the increased costs to the banks of BCT refinancing. Thus the foreign
exchange losses incurred on loans held by financial intermediaries are covered
on the one hand by the FPC, financed indirectly by BNT's subborrowers, among
others, and on the other by the Government in the case where the funds in the
FPC are insufficient to cover the full foreign exchange loss.
1/ The rate of interest on short-term bank overdrafts was increased from
10.51 to 12.625S in April 1985, to cover this 0.51 contribution and the
5/81 levy to the FNG (para. 3.08d), and to give an additional 1% spread to
the banks.
(31 13E)



- 30 -
E. Procurement
5.17     Procurement arrangements under the Project are summarised in the
following table and described below:
PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ million) /a
ICB     LCB     Other   N/A  Total Cost
1. Farm machinery, equipment,
civil works, silos, livestock,    -        -       55.0      -     55.0
fishing gear and farm             -        -      (27.5)     -    (27.5)
development under subloans
2. Computer equipment                   2.8     -        -        -      2.8
(1.9)    -        _        _     (1.9)
3. Consultants b/                       -       -        0.2      -      0.2
-       -       (0.15)    -      (0.15)
4.  Software,                           -       -        1.0      -       1.0
Computer maintenance               -        -       (0.45)    -     (0.45)
and Training Programs
TOTAL                       2.8              56.2            59.0
(1.9)           (28.1)          (30.0)
/a Figures in parentheses represent Bank loan financing
/b includes training specialists.
5.18     Investments financed by BNT's subloans.  The goods to be financed by
BNT's credits to farmers, cooperatives and fishermen are not suitable for bulk
procurement because of their variety, the small size of individual
investments, and the wide dispersion of contracts both in location and time.
Since there are sufficient suppliers ensuring competition, machinery and
equipment would be bought by the subborrowers through ordinary commercial
channels, and both local and foreign firms operating in Tunisia and having
repair shops and mechanics at strategic locations would be eligible sources.
Dairy farm development would require purchase of in-calf heifers from private
farms or other suppliers. Agro-industrial investments of about D 270,000
(US$310,000) on average, excluding working capital, are expected to be divided
into five contracts, two for civil works totalling about D 83,000 (US$95,000)
and three for equipment totalling about D 187,000 (US$215,000); subborrowers
will use, under BNT supervision (para. 6.18), competitive procurement
procedures from eligible sources, i.e., obtain quotations from eligible
competing companies and make their choice based on quality, know-how, price,
and after-sale service. This procedure worked satisfactorily in the Second
and Third Agricultural Credit Projects and experience has shown that for
contracts of that order of magnitude, it is the most efficient and least cost
(31133)



- 31 -
procurement procedure. The total value of all contracts under the
agro-industry component including price contingencies but without working
capital will be about D 6.2 million (US$7 million).
5.19     Computer equipment.  Contracts for the purchase of electronic data
processing (EDP) equipment for the BNT's Management Information Systems (MIS)
valued at a total of about US$2.8 million would be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
All bids would be opened in public. Bid documents and contracts estimated to
cost US$400,000 equivalent or more each would be subject to the Bank's review
and prior approval. These prior review procedures would capture at least 801
of Bank funds involved in ICB.
5.20     Consultants.  Consultants and training specialists totalling about 12
man-months (US$0.2 million) would be appointed in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
5.21     Other Procedures.  MIS software (US$0.2 million), computer
maintenance (US$0.3 million), and training programs (US$0.5 million) would be
procured through international or local shopping involving quotations from at
least three suppliers, in accordance with Bank guidelines. These procedures
are appropriate for the specialized nature of the goods and services involved.
F. Disbursements
5.22     Disbursement Schedule.  The proposed Bank Loan of US$30 million would
be committed over a period of three years (1987-90) and disbursed over a
period of five Bank fiscal years. This is consistent with the! Bank-wide and
EMENA historical disbursement profiles for Agricultural Credit Projects,
adjusted to the commitment period of this Project. Previous agricultural
credit projects in Tunisia also were disbursed in about five years. A
schedule of estimated disbursements under the proposed Bank Loan is summarized
below and detailed in Table 12:
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Bank FY                     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
--- (US$ million) -
Annual                          5.0      7.0     8.0     7.0     3.0
Cumulative                      5.0    12.0    20.0    27.0    30.0
5.23     Disbursement Procedures.  Disbursement Categories, loan allocations
and the share of expenditures to be financed would be as follows:



- 32 -
DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
Category               Amount of the Loan               2 of Expenditures
Allocated                      to be financed
(US$ million)
1. Subloans to small and
medium farmers                  8.0          )
)
2.  Subloans to large farmers        8.0          )
)
3.  Subloans to Cooperatives         3.5          )     75% of amounts
)     disbursed by BNT
4.  Subloans to agricultural and                  )    under such sub-loans
agro-industrial enterprises    4.5           )
5.  Subloans to fishermen            3.5          )
6. Computer and office equipment
and maintenance, software,      2.5           1001 of foreign expenditures
consultants and training  '                   and 70% of local expenditures
TOTAL         30.0
5.24     Disbursements for computer equipment contracts of US$400,000 or more
each would be made against normal documentation prescribed by the Bank. All
other disbursements (for computer equipment contracts of less than US$400,000
and for computer maintenance, software, consultants, training costs, and
subloans in categories 1-5) would be against certified statements of
expenditures (SOEs). Full documentation for SOEs would be retained by BNT for
review by Bank supervision missions and would be reviewed and checked by the
external auditors (para. 6.27). The loan closing date is expected by December
31, 1991.
5.25     Bank Approval of BNT Subloans.  Sub-projects involving individual
subloans of D 300,000 (US$350,000) or above would require Bank approval before
financing. This would involve major subloans to agroindustrial investors.
5.26     The Revolving Fund.  To facilitate the efficient and timely implement-
ation of the Project, the Bank would deposit, after loan effectiveness and at
BNT's request, an initial sum of US$2.5 million (about four months estimated
disbursements by BNT) to set up a revolving fund in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The deposit would be made in US dollars into a special account at
the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) which would be drawn on as needed by BNT to
finance eligible subloans and expenditures. BNT would normally request
replenishment by the Bank when 501 of the revolving fund has been disbursed.
Replenishments would cease when the total unwithdrawn amount of those
remaining loan funds in account that are expected to be disbursed at loan
closure has fallen to US$5 million. Any ineligible payments made by BNT out
of the special account must be reimbursed promptly to the account, or if the
Bank so requests, refunded to the Bank. Any amount outstanding in the special
account at loan closure not required to cover further payments for eligible
subloans and expenditures, would be refunded to the Bank.
(31 13X)



- 33 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01     BNT will be responsible for the implementation of the credit program,
monitoring and evaluation, project-related training, and for the improvement
of its management information and computer systems (MIS and EDP). The
Ministries of Planning and Finance, Agriculture, Agricultural Production and
Agro-industries, BCT, BNT and BNDA will monitor, through an operational
coordinating Committee, the application of the project-related agricultural
credit po';1cy reforms which would be decided at the highest levels of
Government: Council of Ministers, or the Credit Ministerial Steering
Committee composed of the Ministers of Planning, Finance, Agriculture,
Agricultural Production and the Governor of the Central Bank, which is chaired
by the Minister of Planning and Finance.
A. Agricultunal Credit Policy Reforms
6.02     Overall Policy and Institutional Reforms formulated under the ASAL
are described in paras. 3.15 and 3.16. Specific aspects of project-related
reforms and actions are discussed below. Detailed guidelines for
implementation are in Annex 8.
6.03     Revision of interest rates charged to farmers.  As described in
Chapter III, agricultural interest rates are currently too low in Tunisia to
cover financial and operating costs and a reasonable part of the risks. At
negotiations agreement was reached on an increase of interest rates by not
less than 0.51 for medium-term and 0.252 for short-cerm rates by August 31,
1987. rTis will be the first adjustment under a 'ive year plan to bring
agricultural interest rates, which are classified as preferential rates, in
line with market rates by 1991. Government would also revise agricultural
interest rates in 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991. Under the Project, this would
be done through annual consultation with the Bank on each specific adjustment;
each annual adjustment would be calculated so as to narrow the differential
between market rates and agricultural interest rates end 1987 by 0.5 to 1
point p.a. BNT and other banks would then be free to determine the spreads on
subloans which are most appropriate to their operations.
6.04     Continued action to reduce budgetary allocations to the credit part
of the FOSDA subsidized credit programs (para. 3.14). At negotiations,
agreement was reached on a further 15S reduction of budgetary allocations to
FOSDA credit by end 1989 and another 152 by end 1990 over the reduced level of
D 11 million, such level to be reached in nominal terms by end 1988 under the
ASAL.



- 34 -
6.05     Provision for bad debts and National Guarantee Fund (FNG) (para.
3.08). To allow e4equate provision for bad debt to cover part of the risk of
default, and to ensure appropriate guarantees, agreement was reached at
negotiations, that BNT would (i) maintain in its accounts a level of provision
for bad agricultural debt that covers 1001 of the real risk of default as
determined by analyzing overdues annually, and (Hi) use the FNG to *over the
risk of default for subloans to small- and medium-scale farmers including for
such subloans made under the proposed project.
6.06     Eligibility of small- and medium-scale farmers to institutional
credit. With a view to reaching a larger number of farmers through bank
credit, and providing special Government financial assistance to low-income
farmers by means other than subsidixed credit, Government has redefined the
eligibility of small- and medium-scale farmers to institutional credit. This
involves giving more weight to revenues, i.e. the ability of farmers to repay,
rather than just farm size. While Government agrees to continue reducing
subsidies on agricultural credit, and to transfer the credit functions of
FOSDA and related risks to the banking sector, there may be situations when
the Government would need to continue to extend financial assistance to less
privileged, low-income farmers, who currently do not have adequate access to
institutional credit. This assistance would be budgeted and accounted for
directly and explicitly, i.e., not through subsidized agricultural credit
programs because these programs are undercutting institutional credit (para.
3.14).
6.07     Measures for debt rescheduline.  To improve agricultural credit
recovery rates presently distorted by abnormal circumstances, Government has
agreed to reschedule the debts due by farmers where this is justified. An
improvement in recovery rates is an esseLvial prerequisite for the
restructuring and further development of the agricultural credit system tn
Tunisia. And in cases where it is clear that natural calamities are a
dominant factor in the formation of existing arrears, plans were made for
their rescheduling over a period of two to six years. On March 26, 1987, BCT
issi'4d a circular requiring the banking sector to imnediately implement the
rescheduling measures taken. Recovery efforts (para. 3.14) and performance
would be monitored as a permanent feature of the activities of the proposed
project.
6.08     Farmers bank savings schemes.  With a view to encouraging rural
savings and easing farmers eligibility for credit, agreement was reached at
negotiations that BNT would offer farmers bank saving schemes linked to
eligibility for credit during project implementation; the promotion of a "farm
savings passbook" would ease farmers eligibility for credit by making them
aware of what financial services are available at BNT instead of hoarding
their money or investing it in sectors other than agriculture (e.g., in
property). The amounts saved would be entered in the passbook and would earn
interest at an appreciable rate value-linked to the adjusted interest rates
for agricultural loans.
6.09     Policy Letter on agricultural credit.  To ensure that project
proposals on interest rates, spreads, recoveries, risks, guarantees, provision
for bad debts, small farmers eligibility to credit, transfer of FOSDA credit



- 35 -
functions to the banking sector, and harmonization of credit terms and
conditions are appropriately executed, Government sent to the Bank a Policy
Letter on agricultural credit incorporating project proposals, with copy to
BNT and the banking sector for execution.
6.10     Fungibility of funds and better uniformity of lending terms and
conditions. To move steadily towards enhanced fungibility of the funds for
agricultural credit with a view to improving the financial efficiency of
agricultural credit operations, Government has agreed to immediately start
harmonizing the terms, conditions and methods of credit delivery so that the
harmonization process be completed nationwide by December 31, 1989. The
measures taken and to be taken would lead to the merger of the agricultural
credit programs of BNT (including the FOSDA/FOSEP) into a single fund managed
by BNT. This agreement has been incorporated into the Policy Letter (para.
6.09).
6.11     Strengthening of the Agricultural Credit Policy Coordination.  The
Project would reinforce the coordination between the various Government
authorities involved in agricultural credit policies (Ministries of Planning
a-ad Finance, Agriculture, and Agricultural Production/Agro-industries, BCT,
and the banking sector) by converting by December 31, 1987 the existing
interninisterial Task Force on agricultural credit into a standing committee
for operational coordination. The proposed Coordinating Committee (Chart No,
3) would have the following objectives:
(a)  monitor application of agricultural credit policy reforms, more
particularly those related to the revision of the interest rate
structure;
(b)  harmonize terms and conditions of agricultural credit programs with a
view to supplying subloans to farmers by a lead bank system, and to
improving nationwide the efficient use of resource in agriculture
lending by moving steadily towards enhanced fungibility of funds;
(c)  examine annually by July of each year the financial results of
agricultural credit operations; this has been initiated by BNT with
satisfactory progress under the Third Credit Line (Ln. 1885-TUN);
(d)  review the present system of investment subsidies in agriculture
(e.g., FOSDA) in order to make the necessary recommendations (Annex
8, para. 3); and
(e)  make recommendations to the competent authorities on interest rates,
intermediation spreads, Government guarantees, credit discipline,
small farmers eligibility to bank credit, loan recovery measures and
sanctions, debt rescheduling and provision for bad agricultural
debts.



- 36 -
The coordinating Committee will periodically consult with tine Credit
Ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Planning and Finance
(para. 6.01) on matters concerning agricultural credit. This will include
consultations on (a) the proposed revisions of interest rates to be charged to
farmers (para 6.03), and (b) action to reduce the budgetary allocations to the
credit part of FOSDA subsidized credit programs (para. 6.04).
B. Credit Operations
Lending Procedures and Terms
6.12     Only subprojects in agriculture, agriculture-cum-processing, and
rural enterprises wherein the potential for increased production or increased
efficiency in related marketing and processing are clearly established will be
eligible for project financing. Subloan appraisal and approval would be the
responsibility of BNT. Where useful and practicable, BNT would also rely on
the advice and existing expertise of the Ministry of Agriculture staff in the
field (CRDA) and of the OMVs to firm up the appraisal of the technical aspects
of investments proposed by farmers. The initiative for these periodic but
optional consultations between BNT and MOA would come either from BNT
headquarters and field staff, or from the CRDAs and OMVs themselves.
6.13     Interest on subloans and spreads.  Interest rate ceilings that BNT
may charge on agricultural loans will be revised annually by Government in
consultation with the Bank in 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991 (para. 6.03), and BNT
would be able to charge market-level interest rates as of end 1991, thereby
allowing it to cover cost of funds, operating costs as well as a reasonable
portion of lending risk. During Project implementation, the Government will
reimburse BNT annually for any negative difference between interest received
from subborrowers and interest and other charges paid to the Bank.
6.14     Subloan maturities.  The repayment period for medium- and long-term
subloans would be based on the subproject's cash flow and related to the
subborrower's overall repayment capacity. Repayment of most subloans will be
in 5 to 10 years but will not exceed 15 years, or the economic life of the
sub-project, whichever is lower. A grace period may be granted for repayment
based on the subproject's cash flow and the overall financial status of the
subborrower. Subloans will be secured by collateral consistent with current
banking practices in Tunisia.
6.15     Subborrower's contribution.  A subborrower's contribution to the
investment cost of a subproject would be determined by BNT on the basis of the
subpraject appraisal. On average, subborrower's contribution would be as
follows:
(a) Small and medium farmers, cooperatives and small fishermen: not less
than 10%; and
(b) Large farmers/fishermen and agro-industries: not less than 302.



- 37 -
6.16     Appraisal of subloans to agro-industrial investors.  BNI will use
appropriate financial analysis methods for investment decisions to approve its
subloans to agro-industries under the project. Agreed methods, summarized
below, have already been satisfactorily used under the Third Line of Credit
(Loan 1885-TUN) since 1984:
(a) internal rate of return (IRR) calculatione over about 20 years;
(b) net return on equity (ROE) calculations over 12 to 20 years depending
on the timing for assets renewal;
(c) introduction of a hurdle rate (cut-off rate) for accepting or
rejecting investment proposals. BNT agrees that IRR should be about
142 to make a limited risk "accept" decision, but it will not
automatically reject a proposed investment with a 12% IRR if
additional measurements show that the investment ib sound; and
(d) use and interpretation case-by-case of three additional measurements
to cross-check IRR and ROE calculations:
- current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of at least
1.3, as computed from the basic financial statements of last five
years;
- long-term debt to equity ratio, after the proposed loan, preferably
not over 2 to 1; and
- ratio of cash flow after taxes to long-term debt service of at
least 1.3, as estimated from projected cash flow statements on five
years. Cash flow should include net profit after taxes,
depreciation, and annual financial charges on long-term debt;
long-term debt service includes principal and interest.
Regarding investments for newly created enterprises the ratio
analysis will be done on the basis of projected financial statements
only.
6.17     Appraisal of subloans to farmers, cooperatives and fishermen.
Investment lending to farmers, cooperatives, and selected fishermen (para.
5.07) will be subject to a techno-economic and financial appraisal carried out
by BNT's field staff under the guidance of BNT headquarters. The objective of
the appraisal would be to demonstrate that: (a) the proposed investments are
sound on technical and economic grounds, and are financially viable based on
subproject's financial plan and cash flow analysis; and (b) the subloan
applicants are creditworthy, and will be able to re .ay their loans. As
calculations of financial rates of return (FRRs) for all subloans would be
impractical, BNT will calculate an FRR for typical subprojects (para. 7.04) in
v - principal activity financed. For small-farm loans, separate feasibility
scudies will be replaced by standardized loan packages for various categories
of investment to speed up approval decisions and disbursement.



- 38 -
6.18     Disbursement and supervision of subloans.  Disbursement and
supervision of subloans will initially be handled by BNT headquarters, and be
delegated to the branches whenever feasible regarding degree of risk involved,
and quality and experience of BNT's field staff. BNT would require
subborrowers to use project funds for approved purposes. This would be
achieved through direct payments to supplierq, quarterly or semi-annual visits
to subprojects by BNT's field staff as may be prescribed by BNT's
Headquarters. Follow-up reports on each visit would comment briefly on
utilization of subloan funds, compare actual and planned operations, review
farmers management and financial problems, and make recommendations. BNT's
headquarters staff would then do selective field visits to problem operations
for assessment of their problems and solutions.
6.19     Risk of default on subloans.  BNT will assume 100% of the risk of
default on subloans. However, the National Guarantee Fund (FNG) will cover up
to 702 of the principal of unpaid subloans granted at BNT's risk to small- and
medium-operators.
6.20     Manual of procedures.  BNT is preparing, in consultation with the
Bank, a manual of procedures to be used by its agricultural credit staff. The
manual will provide operating guidelines specifying lending terms and
conditions, including subloan size, subborrower contribution, collateral
requirements, repayment terms, current interest rates to be applied, and
procedures to appraise, approve, disburse, supervise and recover subloans.
This manual will have to evolve as the reforms proposed under the project
would take place. Additional details on lending terms and conditions are
given in Annex 9.
Women's Participation in Credit Activities
6.21     The banking system in Tunisia lends to women without prejudice
provided it can recover its money, and employs women on an equal footing with
men (para. 4.05). Traditional family attitudes in rural areas, however, are
still a strong limiting factor for women's access to credit. Under the
project, action to promote rural savings tied to credit eligibility (para.
6.08) is an area where efforts would be made to help the very few existing
women farmholders. Women seem to be more particularly active in livestock
activities where they can take some lead in the family. For agro-industrial
investments, credit will be made available to any potential woman entreprenteur
on an equal footing with men.
Environmental Aspects
6.22     Some regulations for environmental protection exist in Tunisia and
provide for a certain degree of protection of the environment. In the case of
agro-industries to be financed under the Project, there are no special
environment concerns given (a) the nature of the products to be processed
(mainly fruits and vegetables), and (b) the minimum amount of water to be used
in the processing so that there is no water pollution problem. In the case of
livestock, there are no major environment concerns either, since animal health
services will be improved under the ASAL by encouraging veterinarians to enter
private practice. No pesticides would be purchased under the proposed Loan.



- 39 -
C. Institutional Development
6.23     Improvement of BNT's MIS and EDP systems.  Under the Project, a
comprehensive set of actions and measures would be taken to modernize BNT's
HIS and EDP systems (para. 5.09):
(a)  Management aspectb.  BNT will make operational, by September 30,
1987, its computer managing committee headed by BNT's Chief Executive
or a Deputy, and composed of the key Directors directly concerned by
the proposed computerization plan, in particular the Directors of the
Computer, Agricultural credit, Commercial/Industrial Credit,
Finance/Treasury, Management Control and Monitoring and Evaluation
Divisions. The objectives of the computer committee are to (i)
define priority actions for computer applications, (ii) monitor
implementation schedules (iii) review the procurement proposals on
software and hardware and (iv) inform all divisional and branch
managers on proposed and ongoing computer application actions;
(b) Etuiiment aspects: BNT's computer Division, which has capable staff,
will be responsible for (i) the appropriate study, design and
cost/benefit analysis of the proposed computer applications, pricing,
programing and operative guidelines; and (ii) the monitoring of the
timely installation of the required hardware equipment, the proper
use of available software in light of the computer-system capacity,
maintenance of equipment and security of data.
Detailed timetable and terms of reference for this program are in the Project
working document no. 5, and are summarized in the Project implementation
schedule (Chart 1).
6.24     Project-related training.  BNT would be responsible for
project-related training, and would use its own facilities, those of the
training institute of APB and/or any other appropriate facilities that would
be necessary to hold short seminars in Tunis or in other cities of the
country. In agricultural credit, BNT will also draw from its qualified
trainers, and from its experience in organizing training courses. As part of
the proposed training program, BNT would also conduct a teacher's training
program in 1988, using training materials to be provided by the Bank's
Economic Development Institute. If necessary, the most qualified BNT trairers
would be invited to participate in such a training program organized by the
Bank's Economic Development Institute, or other relevant training programs
overseas. BNT's annual training program under tie Project would be sent to
the Bank by March 31 of each year for review, as of March 1988.
D. Modntorin and Evaluation
6.25     bNT had limited success in establishing a fully adequate monitoring
system until 1984, when monitoring activities made good progress. The
objectives of the system are to enable BNT to initiate actions to remedy



- 40 -
project implementation constraints, and tO upgrade subloan appraisal,
delivery, supervision and repayment. Thus* monitoring is and would remain an
integral part of day-to-day operational management of BNT's agricultural
credit activities at Headquarters and branch lovels. BNT's monitoring and
evaluation Unit at Headquarters will collect tnd consolidate the data on
commitments and disbursements under subloans, physical achievements under
selected subprojects, operational results of representative investment
operations, and recovery performance. The M&E Unit at BNT Headquarters is
staffed with qualified personnel. The provision of a micro-computer under the
Project to analyze data will speed up the preparation of evaluation reports.
Proposed monitoring indicators are in Table 14.
6.26     Reporting.  BNT will provide to the Bank (a) within one month of the
end of each quarter, short quarterly statements on commitments, disbursements,
subloan maturities and actual collections under the Project, and summary
quarterly statements on recoveries for all BNT's agricultural credit
operations; (b) semi-annual progress reports to which the corresponding
statements noted in (a) above will be attached; and (c) an annual evaluation
report, within three months of the end of each calendar year. In addition,
BNT will prepare a Project completion report to be submitted to the Bank
within three months of the closing date of the loan.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.27     BNT has a reliable accounting system involving  (a) a centralized
accounting system; (b) an internal audit unit; (c) a stable workforce in terms
of key financial staff; (d) separation of incompatible tasks; (e) defined
procedures; (f) timeliness in producing annual financial statements of
satisfactory quality; and (g) few external audit adjustments. During project
implementation, BNT will further modernize its system by (a) adopting in 1988
a new chart of accounts incorporating improved standards for bank accounting,
and (b) developing decentralized MIS applications, in particular for detailed
cost accounting purposes at branch level. BNT accounts and financial
statements have been in the past and would continue under the Project to be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. BNT will
send to the Bank, within six months (instead of nine months in past Projects)
of the close of each fiscal year, a full audit report which will incorporate
in one document with the auditors' opinions (a) a short form report on BNT's
overall-financial statements (b) a long-form report on BNT agricultural
lending operations including project accounts with three specific auditors'
opinions on (i) project accounts, (ii) statements of expenditures (SOEs), and
(iii) the revolving fund (Special Account). In addition, the auditor will
provide a fourth separate opinion on the credit operations made by BNT under
the North-West Agricultural Production Project (Ln. 2502-TUN). BNT will send
to the Bank audit reports of adequate standards, and report contents will be
discussed with BNT and the auditors during Bank supervision missions.



- 41 -
VII. BENEFTPS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
7.01     The proposed project will support the Government's medium-term
adjustment effort to establish a policy and institutional framework which
would promote development of a financially sound rural credit system. Through
provision of investment creeit to private farmers, the project will also
contribute to increased agricultural production and rural employment.
Financial Impact on Beneficiaries
7.02     To quantify the returns to sub-borrowers under the Project, six farm
models and three agro-industries were chosen to represent the range of
investments that would be made. The farm models are based on the best
estimates of BNT staff who specialize in reviewing the technical parameters of
potential investors and the information on input levels, farming techniques
and yields are based on the combined judgment of BNT and Bank staff familiar
with the agricultural sector in Tunisia. Surveys of farms have not been
systematically carried out in the country, but the estimates on yiel4s,
discussed below (details are available in the project working document No. 11)
should be considered as quite conservative. In practice, many combinations of
these model inve.tments and other cropping patterns and agro-industrial
activities would exist under the Project. The results in the Table below are
illustrative only:
IMPACT ON FARMERS' AND INVESTORS' INCOMES
Farm     Net Income    Net Income   Incremental
Investment Models              Size      Without          With          Net
(ha)     Prolect (D)   Prolect (D)   Income (D)
i. Well improvement &
irrigation equipment        10       19685           3,494         1,809
2. Stable and Cows               6       3,354           4,224            919
3. Stable and Sheep             20       1,518           2,058            540
4. Agricultural Equipment      120        7,860         13,297          5,437
5. Stable and Sheep            200      11,703          13,826          2,123
6. Irrigation and
Agricultural Equipment,    65        4,966          11,964         6,998
Stable and Cows
7. Conditioning Unit for dates  -            0         169,000       169,000
8. Agricultural and Transport
Equipment for Service
Cooperatives                 -           0          10,220        10,220
9. Renewal of Engines for
coastal fishing boats (45 hp)-        3,739           6,027         2,288



- 42 -
7.03     The effect on farmers' and investors' incomes would be substantial at
full development. Incomes are estimated to increase by about 202 for
investors in sheep to several fold for investors in irrigation equipment,
measured in 1986 constant prices. Incremental income in the farm models is
expected from: (a) more intensive cultivation and reduced fallow in the case
of the irrigation equipment; (b) increased yields in the case of all farm
models; and (c) upgrading the quality and yield of the livestock through
purchase of pure bred cattle and improved sheep, and better animal feed and
health. In the case of the agro-industries, returns would come from
investment in equipment for date conditioning because of the value added to
selecting and packaging dates for export, and from investment in motor
replacement for fishing boats to enable fishermen to continue their fishing
operations. For service cooperatives the returns would come from rental of
equipment (trucks for transport of inputs and tractors for land preparation).
7.04     The financial rates of return, along with sensitivity analysis, are
as follows:
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN ON SELECTED SUBPROJECTS
FRR to               Sensitivity
Total     Benefits   Operating       Investment
Investment Models             Resources   Down 102   Costs up 10   Costa up 101
1. Well improvement &
irrigation equipment          46          39            44              42
2.  Stable and Cows               18          15            16              17
3.  Stable and Sheep              24          19            22              22
4. Agricultural
Equipment                     17          12            16              14
5.  Stable and Sheep              15          10            12              13
6. Irrigation and Agricultural
Equipment, Stable & Cows      22          16            19              19
7.  Conditioning Unit for Dates  38           13            13              34
8. Agricultural and Trans-
port Equipment for
Service Cooperatives          41          11            19              34
9. Renewal of Engines for
Coastal Fishing Boats (45hp) 20           12            19              17
These financial rates of return (FRR) indicate that the incentives to invest
are considerable, particularly for the agroindustries and for investment in
irrigation equipment. These rates of return are reflected in the demand for
certain kinds of investment. For irrigation equipment, demand is probably
limited only by the number of farmers with proper land holdings to make full
use of the irrigation water, while for fishing equipment, the granting of
credit will be limited only to those fishermen who have good repayment records.
Economic Analysis
7.05     An economic rate of return (ERR) has also been calculated for each
typical farm model. The results have not been aggregated into an overall ERR



- 43 -
for the Project as a whole, because the distribution of loans among these
types of investment or among variations of the models will depend on changing
relative prices, attractiveness of alternative investments, land use, and
market forces.
7.06     Benefits include all incremental production of crops, milk, meat and
wool as a result of increased yields, increased cropping intensity, and, in
the case of certain agro-industries, increased value added. Costs include all
capital costs, incremental working capital requirements and incremental
operating costs. All taxes and subsidies have been excluded. Economic prices
for traded inputs and outputs have been derived from Tunisia's actual 1985 CIF
import and FOB export prices and the World Bank's commodity price
projections '1' and adjusted for transport and handling, and, in the case of
olives, dates and milk, for the costs of processing in Tunisia. Prices for
non-traded inputs and outputs such as certain seeds ard fruit and vegetables,
have been taken from market prices and adjusted by a conversion factor of
0.9. The calculations and summaries of the economic and financial prices and
conversion factors are in the Project File. The results of the economic
analysis are summarized below:
SUMKARY OF ERRs ON SELECTED SUBPROJECTS
Switching Values /a
Investment   Operating
Investment Models               ERR      FRR       Cost         Cost     Benefits
------4 8Change--------
1. Well improvement &
irrigation equipment        36      46         +98          +73         -30
2.  Stable and Cows             30       18       +180          +87          -37
3.  Stable and Sheep            37       24       +163         +106         -39
4. Agricultural Equipment       30       17        +67         +172          -32
5.  Stable and Sheep            26       15       +121          +65          -30
6. Irrigation & Agricultural
Equipment, Stable & Cows   20        22        +53          +23         -14
7. Conditioning Unit for
Dates /b                     -       38          -            -            -
8. Agricultural and Trans-
port Equipment for
Service Cooperatives        21      41         +26           +6          -5
9. Renewal of Engines
for Coatal Fishing
Boats (45 hp)               16       20        +27           +19         -9
/a At an opportunity cost of capital of 101.
/b  No economic rate of return is calculated for this subproject because the
economic purchase price for dates is the economic border price less
economic transport and operating costs of conditioning. Thus economic
revenues will always equal economic operating costs. The relevant measure
in this case is the financial rate of return to conditioning.
1/ Half-yearly Revision of Commodity Forecasts - August 12, 1986



- 44 -
7.07     The differences between the ERRs and the FRRs shown above are the
result mainly of Government price intervention, subsidies, and taxes. Where
the FRR is greater than the ERR, as it is for irrigation equipment, price
interventions introduce net distortions against the investment. Because of
the recent agreements of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, many of the
existing distortions in input and output prices will be removed by 1990, when
the benefits of this Project will be approaching full development, and thus
the main causes of the differences can be traced to the high cost of the fuel,
which is in financial terms almost twice that of the projected economic export
parity price, and which affects the operating costs of irrigation equipment,
fishing boat motors, and agricultural machinery (trucks, tractors and combine
harvesters), and to a lesser extent, to the overall conversion factor applied
to fish, fresh fruits and vegetables.
Financial Impact on BNT
7.08     As a result of the interest rate reforms proposed under the Project
(para. 6.03), BNT is expected to break even on its agricultural credit
operations by 1991. This will, in turn, impact positively on BNT's overall
profitability and financial performance, and improve its overall operating
results which are already positive (para. 4.16). BNT's overall financial
targets for 1986-1990 are in Annex 5, Table 5, and resulting BNT's projected
financial statements are in Annex 5, Tables 6-8. Key ratios reflecting BNT's
projected financial condition are as follows:
BNT'S FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1986-1990
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
Total Debt-to-Equity (Leverage)         18.7      19.1     19.4      19.8    20.0
Normal Risk Assets to Core Deposits       1.17     1.14     1.08      1.02    0.98
Change in Normal Risk Assets b          12.9       7.3      3.4       4.6     5.4
Provisions as Z of Total
Risk Assets a/                           4.42      5.25     5.93      6.48    7.01
Return on Equity (pre-tax) X            22.0      21.7     22.2      22.3    22.1
/a  Defined as normal risk assets (loans outstanding and bills discounted)
plus guarantees and acceptances (off balance sheet items).
The Table shows that BNT is expected to maintain a satisfactory financial
condition throughout the Project period, and in certain areas (loans/deposits
ratio and provisions) it is expected to improve its performance. These
financial improvements would stem from the combined results of: (a) sharper
increases in interest incomes than in interest expenses (agriculture, but also
industry and commerce); (b) improved quality of portfolio (collections and
adequate provisions); and (c) sharper increases in deposits (101 p.a.) than in



- 45 -
new loan commitments (7% p.a.). Net profit before allocation is expected to
grow from D 4.9 million in 1986 to D 7.2 million in 1990. These profits,
after payment of dividends, will build up BNT's financial reserves and
significantly improve its capital base. For BNT to implement the Project is
therefore financially justified.
Financial Implications for Government
7.09     The impact of the Project on the Government's finances would come
from: (a) subsidies paid to BNT to finance part of the cost of selected
on-farm investments in accordance with the Agricultural Investment Code (para.
5.13); (b) taxes and duties on farm and agro-industry assets; and (c) payments
to BNT of any negative difference between interest received by BNT from its
subborrowers and interest and other charges paid to the Bank (para. 6.13). In
addition, the Project, by proposing a gradual reduction of state budget
allocations for credit under FOSDA and other special funds, would encourage
the Government to better target the uses of its limited resources. Investment
subsidies under the Project are estimated to equal D 4.3 million, or about 7S
of the total Project cost. Import duties and other taxes are estimated to
amount to about D 9.4 million, and would more than cover this subsidy cost
plus applicable payments mentioned in (c) above.
B. Project Risks
7.10     The project is being launched at a time when Tunisia is implementing
a medium-term adjustment program (1987-1991) in agriculture, and financial
sector reforms. Against this background, a major uncertainty is associated
with project implementation, because of the length and difficulty of the
adjustment and reform process, unpredictable developments in the external
environment, and slower pace than expected in the resp&ase of the private
sector to Government policies aimed at providing price incentives. This could
cause demand for investment credit to be less than anticipated. However, to
minimize this risk, conservative estimates of credit demand have been made,
and care has been taken in the Project design to ensure that it is consistent
with new Government policies for the medium-term program already mutually
agreed by the Bank and the Government under the ASAL.
71.11    Another important risk in this Project has been identified and
discussed in previous credit projects, not only in Tunisia but in other
countries as well. It is the threat of drought and/or sustained drought
conditions which Tunisia has experienced, for example, in 1982/83 and in
1985/86. The adverse climatic conditions translate into decreased yields and
livestock outputs reduced demand for agricultural investments and services,
reduced production for processing or conditioning, lower capacity utilization
and lower farmers' incomes, and finally, reduced ability to repay loans.
7.12     Sensitivity analysis was done on the models to test the effect of
poor weather conditions on the outcome of the return to farmers and to
agro-industries. The switching values of costs and benefits in both FRR and
ERR calculations (pars. 7.06) show that in both financial and economic terms,
fairly large changes in costs and benefits would be necessary for most of the



- 46 -
models to become uneconomic. Because of the flexibility inherent in a line of
credit, if one type of investment or one crop becomes financially
unattractive, farmers and investors will have options to make alternative,
more attractive investments or to switch to more profitable cropping
patterns. Thus the financial and economic viablilty of the line of credit
should not be threatened, even by a year or two of drought.
7.13     The ability of farpers and investors to repay isg however, a
potentially more serious problem, and one that has been discussed with BNT and
Tunisian officials at some length. Part of the problem has less to do with
weather conditions in a particular year than with a history of credit
discipline and poor repayment performance, s.g. in Government subsidized
credit programs, such as FOSDA, for which the banking sector is not fully
responsible for loan approval. Agreement was reached on harmonizing the
terms, conditions and methods of credit delivery, and on carefully defining
bankable clients (parase 6.06 and 6.10). With BNT fully responsible for loan
approval and recovery on all funds, overall credit discipline should improve.
VMI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNMDATIONS
8.01     Recently the Government:
I,
(a) provided a statement acceptable to the Bank redefining the
eligibility of small farmers to institutional agricultural credit
(para. 6.06);
(b) took measures to reschedule the debts due by farmers where this is
Justified (pars. 6.07);
(c)  sent to the Bank in [ay 1987 a Policy Letter on agricultural credit
incorporating the specific Project proposals on the policy reforms to
be executed by BNT under the Project (para. 6.09); and
(d) confirmed in the Policy Letter that terma, conditions and methods of
credit delivery would be fully harmonized by December 31, 1989, so
that all future BNT agricultural credit programs are merged into a
single fund managed by BNT (para. 6.10).
8.02     Agreements were reached during negotiations on the following:
(a) Government would (i) increase interest rates charged to farmers by
not less than 0.5X for medium-term and 0.25S for short-term rates by
August 31, 19871X, and (ii) further revise agricultural interest
rates in 1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991 in consultation with the Bank
(para. 6.03);
(b) Government would further reduce by 15% p.a. its budgetary allocations
to FOSDA c edit in 1989 and 1990 (para. 6.04) and be more selective
in targeting subsidies to less privileged, low-income farmers (para.
6.06);
1/ In any event not later than loan effectiveness of the proposed
ajricultural credit project.



- 47 -
(c) Government would use the FNG to underwrite credit risk of subloans
made by BNT to small- and medium-farmers under the Project (para.
6.05);
(d) Government would convert the existing interministerial Task Force on
agricultural credit into a standing Committee for operational
coordination by December 31, 1987, with objectives and terms of
reference for the Committee which are acceptable to the Bank (para.
6.11);                                   A
(e) Government would reimburse BNT annually for any negative difference
between interest received by BNT from its subborrowers and interest
and other charges paid to the Bank (para. 6.13);
(f) BNT would take actions to: (i) improve its organization and
introduce better planning and MIS (para. 4.04) and (ii) make
operational, by September 30, 1987, its computer managing committee
headed by BNT's Chief Executive or a Deputy (para. 6.23a);
(g) BNT would require Bank approval for individual subloans of D 300,000
or above (para. 5.25);
(h) BNT would assume 1001 of the risk of default on subloans not partly
guaranteed by the FNG (para. 6.19);
xi) BNT would use appropriate appraisal methods which are satisfactory to
the Bank, to approve its subloans to farmers, agro-industrial
investors and other subborrowers under the Project (para. 6.16 and
6.17);
(j) BNT would maintain in its accounts an adequate level of provision for
bad debts that covers 1002 of the real risk of default as determined
by analyzing overdues annually (para. 6.05(i));
(k) BNT would prepare by July of each year indicative income statements
and detailed analyses of its agricultural credit operations as
initiated under the Third Credit Line (Ln. 1885-TUN) (para. 6.11c);
(1) BNT would offer farmers saving schemes by promoting an appropriate
"farm savings passbook" linked to eligibility to credit (para. 6.08);
and
(m) BNT would send its annual, Project-related training program to the
Bank by March 31 of each year for review (para. 6.24).
8.03     In view of the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a loan
of US$30 million equivalent with a term of 17 years, including a four-year
grace period. The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.



- 48 -
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Resource Structurelaind Growth of Banking System (1980-85)
1980    1981      1982      1983     1984    1985   S in
----   Million of Dinars                ----  1985
A. Commercial Banks         1,535   1,928    2,465    2,927    3,426   3,923   100
1. Deposits             1,114   1,338    1,630    1,927    2,193   2,501    64
Monetary            (619)   (729)    (971)  (1,149)  (1,227) (1,375)  (35)
Quasi-monetary      (495)   (609)    (659)    (778)    (966) (1,126)  (29)
2. Central Bank
Refinancing         157      270       470      578       726      837    21
Money market           -        -       (23)      (36)     (77)   (105)   (2)
Rediscounting       (157)   (270)    (447)    (542)    (649)   (732)  (19)
3. Special Resources    184       215       242       276      333      383    10
Government Funds    (90)   (105)    (121)    (146)    (178)   (204)   (5)
External Commit-
ments /a            (94)   (110)    (121)    (130)    (155)   (179)   (5)
4. Equity Funds            80     105       123       146       174     202      5
Growth p.a. (X), A         25      26        28        19        17      15      -
B. Development Banks lb    328         455      612       8ll    1,007   1,210 /c  -
Growth p.a. (X), B         35      39        34        33        24      20      -
C.  TOTAL A + B             1,863   2,383    3,077    3,738    4,433   5,133         -
Growth p.a (2), C          26      28        29        21        19      16      -
(2968Ep8)
/a  of which, in 1985 : (D Million)                /b in 1985 :
CCCE           118              Commercial banks          76%
USAID           16              Development banks         24%
IBRD-IDA        15           /c of which 301 equity in 1985
Other           30
Total          179
Source: BCT



- 49 -
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks (1980-85)
1980    1981     1982      1983     1984    1985   % in
Million of Dinars  --------  1985
Assets                     1,535   1,928    2,465    2,927    3,426   3,923   100
Cash, Banks and BCT       40      52        36       51        68      67     2
Loans (net)            1,156   1,455    1,765    2,148    2,396   2,753    70
Public Bonds and
other Securities        232     284       341      420       506     587    15
Equity Participations    39       45        50       61        64      71     2
Other Assets              68      92       273      247       392     445    11
Liabilities and Equity    1,535   1,928    2,465    2,927    3,426   3,923   100
Deposits               1,114   1,338    1,630    1,927    2,193   2,501    64
Due to Banks              15      20        25       33        30      60     2
Other Creditors           62     120       214      251       297     318     8
Special Funds            184     215       242      276       333     383    10
Other Liabilities         80     130       231      294       399     459    11
Equity                    80     105       123      146       174     202     5
Source: BCT and APB
2968Ep9



-50 -
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Outstanding Credit to Agriculture 1980-85 /a
(Million of Dinars; end-of-year figures)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   2 of Total
Actual                      1985
1.  Short-Term Credit      114    140    160    149      201    219         51
2. Medium- and Long-
Term Credit            89    120    153    174      185    210         49
3.  Total Credit /b
of which              203    260    313    323      386    429        100
Direct Credit to
Farmers               128    157    197    229      251    290         68
Indirect Credit /c      75    103    116      94     135    139         32
4. 2 of Outstanding
Credit to the
Economy                14.0   14.0   13.7   12.0    11.7   11.4         -
(2968Ep.10)
/a Source: Statistics of BCT
/b Includes crop production (721, of which irrigation 501, rainfed 221),
livestock (13S), forestry (8%), and fisheries (71).
/c  OH, OC, purchase of farm machinery, greenhouse production



- 51 -
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banking System LendinR Commitments in Agriculture
(2968Epll))
1983          1984          1985          2 in
D Million         -           1985
A. Short Term Credit              178            220           268           100
1. BNT                         107            128           149            56
Own Resources               (43)           (45)          (42)          (16)
Special Funds               (12)           (13)          (16)           (6)
Crop Marketing Finance      (52)           (70)          (91)          (34)
2. Other Commercial Banks /a   71              92           119            44
B. Medium Long Term Credit        131            155           181           100
1. ENT                         130            146           162            90
Own Resources               (23)           (23)          (19)          (10)
Special Funds              (107)          (123)         (143)          (80)
2. Other Commercial Banks        1              1(            1             1
3. BNDA                          -              8            18             9
C. TOTAL LENDING (A+B) /b         309            375           449           100
of which:
BNT /c                      237            274           311           69
Other Commercial Banks       72             93           120           27
BNDA                          -              8            18            4
/a Essentially olive oil marketing
Tb Credit to agriculture increased in real terms by 21S in 1984 and 202 in
1985, a higher rate than was observed in other sectors..
Ic The FOSDA situation is as follows:
1983      1984      1985     1986.   1987
--           _ Actual                Estimates
---- D Million
1. Uses                          35         36       37        34.3    38.3
FOSDA Credit                24         23       26        24.3    25
Direct subsidies            10          8        8         9      11
BNT fees                     1          1        1         1       1.3
Other                        -          4        2         -       1
2. Sources                       35         36       37        34.3    38.3
Budgetary allocations /a   22          23       23        20      19
Foreign aid                  4          3        2         4       3
Farmers repayments           9         10       12        10      16
BNT Contribution             -          -        -         0.3     0.3
/a Excludes amounts channeled through BNDA under the 1982 agricultural
investment code.



- 52 -
Table 5
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Structure of Interest Rates
A. Agricultural Credit Interest Rates Charged to Farmers /a
Normal Rates               FOSDA Rates /b  _
Before         Since         Before        Since
April 1985    April 1985      Dec. 1985   Dec. 1985
1.  Short-term financing   5.50 - 8.75    6.75 - 9.50       6.0           6.75
2. Medium-term credit
- Agricultural Equipm.      6.25            7.0         6.0           7.0/c
- Investments in SMEs       8.0             8.5          -
3.  Long-term credit           10.50           12.0 /d      6.0       7.50 - 8.0
/a Inflation is estimated at 8.4Z in 1984, 6.6% in 1985 and 6.4% in 1986
according to Government sources. Money market rates are at roughly 10.71
(101 in 1986).
/b FOSDA rates apply to small- and medium-scale farmers only.
/   Increased from 4% to 61 for the non-productive period of orchLard
investments.
/d Essentially for loans to agro-industries, for which Tunisian banks, since
January 2, 1987, are free to determine the level of interest rates to be
charged, i.e. money market rates plus 3 points maximum.
B. Saving Accounts Interest Rates
Before     Since      From
April     April    January
1985       1985      1987
(%)       (%)
Less than 12 morsths                       5.50       6.75
12 to less than 18 months                  6.75       7.75      Money
18 to less than 24 months                  7.75       8.75      Market
24 months and over                         8.75       9.75      Rates
Special account to promote projects        5.50       6.75     Less 2 points
Special account for investment             3.50       4.50
(2968Ep.12-13)



- 53 -
Table 5
Page 2
C. Central Bank (BCT) Rediscount Rates
Before       Since          From
April 1985   April 1985   January 1987
(X)          (X)          -()
1.  Short-term financing
Seasonal production credit           3.75          4.50          4.50
Advances/cereals, oils and wines    4.25           5.50           5.50
Short-term credit- crops /a          6.0           7.25           -
Credit to SCMAs                      2.0           4.75 /b       4.75/b
2, Medium-term financiny
Agricultural Investments             3.50          5.50           5.50
Investments in SMEs                  6.75          6.50          6.50
Loans to artisans and small shops   3.25           4.75          4.75
3.  Long-term financing
Agricultural Credit                  7.25         10.50             -
/a  "Credits de Campagne"
/b  of which 22 go to the FNG
2968Epl2-13



Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Loan Recovery 1981-85 for Ariculture
Lending , and risk assumed
Risk Asrumed     Recovery Rate (on Principal) /a
by BNT     1981  1982  1983  1984   1985
___-___()--
1. BNT Own Resources               100     91    91      88    88     90
2. Soci6tes de Caution Mutuelle    0-5     39    38      35    37     39
(SCMAs)
3. IBRD Loans:
LnlCr. 779/263-TUN            100      75    78     79    80     83
Ln 1340-TUN                10-100     68    67      63    63     67
Ln 1885-TUN                40-100      -    80      61    58     65
4. FOSDA/FOSEP                       0      53    50     48    47     48
5. Supervised projects  b/        0-40  23-41 21-42  15-41 12-47  20-61
6. BNT Average Recovery Rate         -      73    72     68    70     72
a/ Rate at end of CY, afLer payment of interest due.
b/ APHAIE (US AID) project excluded (682 as of December 30, 1985).
Financial Ratios
Equity         4% end 1985.
Liabilities
Provision for losses        3.72;  Provisions + Reserves         5.8X
Outstanding Portfolio               Outstanding Portfolio
The ratios of Provision to Outstanding portfolio is 2.5 at CNCA Morocco,
and 1.5 at CNCA France. BNT is apparently on the safe side, a higher ratio
(compared to Morocco) being justified by the level of risk incurred, in
particular for the agricultural portfolio (D 311 million) representing 382
of the outstanding portfolio (D 820 million) end 1985. The ratio of the
Ag-Credit provision to the outstanding agricultural portfolio for which BNT
assumes the risk of default is 4.9 at BNT, and this is satisfactory under
the present risk-sharing conditions.
2968Rpl4



- 55 -
Table 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Cost of Resources, and Return on Resources Used
1983            1984          1985
1. Average Cost of Resources
Csh resources /a                          4.50             5.72         6.54
Deposits                                  3.26             3.47         3.57
Government special funds                  0.81             0.78         1.0
External borrowings                       7.69             8.03         9.10
Equity                                    4.26             4.0          3.68
2. Average Return on Resources Used
Cash resources la                         1.99             2.19         1.60
BNT own resources                         7.88            8.01          8.63
Special resources tb                      2.53             2.55         2.39
Guarantees and acceptances                0.53             0.39         0.42
Financial paper                           4.76            4.70          4.67
/a Mainly rediscount facilities at BCT
/b Includes FOSDA/FOSEP and IBRD Loans to BNT
2968Epl5



-56 -                                 Table 8
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Agricultural Credit Operations
1. Indicative Income Statement 1980-1985 /a
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
---  D Million
Interest income                    1.2     2.1      2.8     3.8     4.4      6.7
Interest expense                  (1.1)   (2.1)   (2.8)   (3.7)   (3.7)   (5.3)
Operating income                   0.1     0.0      0.0     0.1     0.7      1.4
Other income /b                    1.5     1.6      1.7     2.0      2.3     2.6
Financial margin                   1.6     1.6      1.7     2.1      3.0     4.0
Staff cost                         1.0     1.4      1.6     2.0      2.3     2.6
Other direct cost                  0.3     0.5      0.6     0.6     0.8      0.9
indirect cost                      0.9     1.2      1.3     1.8     1.9      2.0
Operating cost                    (2.2)   (3.1)   (3.5)   (4.4)   (5.0)   (5.5)
Net Operating result /c           (0.6)   (1.5)   (1.8)   (2.3)   (2.0)   (1.5)
Provision for bad debts           (0.6)   (0.5)   (0.6)   (0.5)   (1.4)   (1.5)
SCMAs liquidation                  -       -        -       1.5     -        -
Profit (losses)                   (1.2)   (2.0)   (2.4)   (1.3)   (3.4)   (3.0)
(2968,pl6)
/a Estimates for 1985
/b Management fees on loans out of Government special funds (FOSDA, FOSEP,
etc.)
/c Financial margin less operating cost (negative result).



- 57                            Table 8
Page 2
2. BNT operating cost in 1984 bY
type of lending operations
(D '000)
Agricultural    Commercial and           Total
Lending     industrial lending         BNT
Amount     2      Amount      %       Amount   2
1. Direct Cost                 3,157      62     5,924       70     9,081    67
Staff Cost                2,353      46     4,797       57     7,150    53
Other direct cost           804      16     1,127       13     1,931    14
2. Indirect Cost                1,956     38     2,432       30     4,388    33
3. Total operating cost /a    5,113    100       8,356      100    13,469   100
% total Direct Cost                35                65                100
% Total Staff Cost                 33                67                100
X Total Indirect Cost              45                55                100
% Total Indirect Cost              45                55                100
% Total Operating Cost             38                62                100
(2968Epl7)
/a Includes depreciation.



- 58 -
Table 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INVESTMENTS IN AGRICULTURE /a
(Million of Dinars; end-of-year figures)
-Vth Plan                             VIth Plan
1977  1978  1979  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986/b
Irrigation  20.0  38.7  38.9   67.2   71.4  82.0   99.8  112.8  138.0   151.8
Livestock   11.7  16.5  12.0   13.2   16.2  20.9   24.6   34.6   41.7    45.9
Orchard      4.7  55.6   6.0    6.8    7.8   7.7    9.0   16.1   25.7    28.3
Farm Machine 15.8 18.2  18.4   20.2   22.3  39.9   39.4   39.5   44.1    48.5
ry
Fisheries    7.8   6.3   6.3   12.5   12.3  17.4   26.4   26.0   32.7    36.0
Soil         4.4   6.1   6.9   10.8   14.1  22.9   20.5   28.8   24.7    27.1
Horticulture 0.7   1.0   1.8    3.2    8.2   0.0    0.0    6.8   13.0    14.3
Others       5.4   5.1   5.5    6.5    9.7  11.9   17.1   25.4   35.1    38.6
TOTAL    70.5  97.4  95.8  140.4  162.0 202.7  236.8  290.0  355.0   390.5
Annual
Increase (2) 11   38    (2)    47       15    25     17      22     22       10
/a Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance
/b Estimates for 1986.
(2i968Epl8)



STAFf APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RNT Schematic Aaricultura1 Lndin  by Subsector 1981-90
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT                                                    ESTIMATED DISBURSMED[T
1111        1182h98                     11fi&        Jil           1986         19B7          1988         Jill          Il2f
-m--------illion)-                      ----                                            (D million) ----------------------
1. short tQrm             14          124           ILl           tS.          46.                 iLl 61.                           ALl BO1
Cereals               10.2        14.4          22.S          18.2         23.8          27.4         31.5          36.2         41.6          67.8
Vegetables             4.1         4.2           S.4           S.2          7.1           8.2          9.4          10.8          12.4         14.3
Tree crop              1.7         2.3           7.0           8.0          7.9           8.7         10.0          11.0          12.1         13.3
Livestock              1.2         2.2           2.5          3.2           5.8           6.7          7.7           8.8         10.2          11.7
Others                 0.6         0.9           0.6           1.0          1.8           2.2          2.6           3.1          3.7           4.5
2.  badium-ten            1L.Z        1.24                                                   21. iLl                    30.2 114  IRA  Ad          Ila
Tree plantations        -           -            1.6          0.3            -             -            -             -             -            -
Farm machinery         3.7         5.3           2.4          3.4           4.6           5.7          7.2           9.0         11.2          14.0          t
Livestock              4.5         3.6           2.0          3.6           6.S           7.1          7.9           8.6          9.S          10.S         U'
Irrigation             3.2         3.2           4.0          3.8           5.2           6.5          S.1          10.2         12.7          1S.9
Greenhouses            0.3         0.1           1.4          0.1            -               )             )
Fisheries              0.S         0.7           0.4           1.0          3.1           2.0)         2.2)          2.4)         2.2)          2.9)
Others                  -           -            1.0          0.8            -               )             )            )             )            )
3. LqM-tem                 5.6        _.7 .6A                                  IL7           IA114         2I.S       IL.           ILI.          16.8
Irrigation             0.7         1.3           1.3           1.6          3.5           3.8          4.2           4.6          5.1           S.6
Tree plantations       1.0         1.6           1.9           2.6          4.2           4.6          5.I           5.6          6.1           6.8
Poultry                1.5         1.9           1.5           1,0          0.4            -            -             -               )
Civil works            0.7         0.6            -             -           1.1           3.0)         3.2)          3.6)         4.0)          4.4)
Fisheries              1.7         2.2           2.7          2.9           2.7                            )            )             )
Others                  -           -             -            0.6           -               )             )            )
4. Total                  I59A          i           H1Z           iZ                          I.2    57 . 3 7            1.2          131.3         SIl.7
Annual increase (M)   -            25            33            (3)          36            10           15            15            15            15
2968Ep79
WI



- 60 -
2968Ep20                                                                                                 Tablg k 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JUImiP
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Protelt Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
---- (D '000) --                ----  (US$ '000)           Exchange
(%)
1.  Small- & tedium-scale private farmers   afll ss       410   15.400       1lQ640    7.060   17.700       41
-  Irrigation development                 3,280    1,440    4,720          4.030    1,400    5,430      28
-  Irrigation equipment                   4,190    3.760    7,950          4,840    4,290    9,130      48
-  Livestock-sheds                          490       180      670           560      210       770     29
-  Farm equipment                           200       320      520           250      350       600     60
-  Cattle                                   490      660    1,150            560      760    1.320      58
-  Sheep                                    230         -      230           270         -      270      0
-  Forage development                        40        20       60            50       20        70     31
-  Tree crops plantations                    70        30      100            80       30       110     30
2.  Large-scale private farmers               Z.350    8.050   154QO           8.360    9.340   17ZOO 7      ii
-  Irrigation development                   640       250      890           730      300    1,030      29
-  Irrigation equipment                     430       350      780           450      450       900     49
- on-farm silos and cow-sheds               720       270      990           800      340    1,140      29
-  Farm machinery                         4,640    6.330   10,970          S,320    7,280   12.600      60
-  Cattle                                   610      820    1,430            710      940    1,650      58
-  Sheep                                    240         -      240           270        -       270      0
-  Forage development                        70        30      100            80       30       110     30
3.  Cooperatives                              1900    2900    4.80                00    3.300    S SO0    fig
-  Farm machinery                         1.700    2,600    4,300          1,980    2,970    4,950      60
- On-Farm Storage Factlities                200       300      500           220      330       550     60
4.  Aaro-industrtes                           2.700    38        6.500         100    4.50Q    7.500         52
-  Civil works                              950      950    1,900          1,070    1.120    2,190      50
-  Equipment                             1540    2,760    4,300           1,680    3,260    4,940      65
- Working capital                           210        90      300           250      120       370     30
S.  Private fishermeg                         3J09Q    2,700 7   L7QQ          3 300    3 300    6.600       la
-  Engines and other equipment            1.870    2.050    3,920          2,040    2,470    4S10      SS
-  Fishing nets                           1,130      650    1,780          1,260      830    2,090      40
6.  Institutional Component                    1.200    2.300   3i5O0          1.500    2.500    4.000       Al
-  Software                                  70       100      170            80      120       200     60
-  Computer equipment                       560    1.870    2,430            790    2,010    2,800      72
-  Computer maintenance                     190       100      290           180      120       300     40
-  Training Programs                        330       110      440           400      100       500     29
-  Consultants and Training Specialists    so         120      170            50      1SO       200     75
7.  ToLal Project Cost                       2S.140   26.160   51.300         22900   30.000   59.00Q        Al
of which:
Total Base Cost                          22,500   24,400   46.900         25.900   28,000   53,900      52
Contingencies La                          2,640    1,760    4.400          3,100    2,000    5,100      40
AZ  Includes US$0.3 million equivalent of physical conrtingencies (institutional development) and US$4.8
million equivalent of price contingencies (credit US$4.5 million. and institutional development US$0.3
million). Total contingencies represent 9.5% of total base co:t or about 8.6% of total project cost.



- 61 -
Table 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan /a
IBRD                     Bank Disbursements /b           Relevant Profiles Ic
Fiscal  Quarter   By End of               Cumulative    Bankwide        EMENA Agri.
Year   Ending    Quarter   Cumulative   Disbursed    Ag. Credit          Credit
---- US$ million ---        2             X (Cwmulative) 2
1987    Dec. 1986                                              1             1
March 1987                                             2             2
June 1987                                              4             3
1988    Sept. 1987   -           -            -                7             6
Dec. 1987    2.5 /d      2.5          8               10             8
March 1988   1.2         3.7         12               15            12
June 1988    1.3         5.0         17               19            15
1989    Sept. 1988   1.7         6.7         22               24            19
Dec. 1988    1.7         8.4         28               29            23
March 1989   1.8        10.2         34               35            28
June 1989    1.8        12.0         40               40            32
1990    Sept. 1989   2.0         14.0        47               46            37
Dec. 1989    2.0        16.0         53               51            41
March 1990   2.0        18.0         60               56            46
June 1990    2.0        20.0         67               61            51
1991    Sept. 1990   1.8        21.8         73               66            55
Dec. 1990    1.8        23.6         79               70            59
March 1991   1.7        25.3         84               74            64
June 1991    1.7        27.0         90               78            68
1992    Sept. 1991   1.5        28.5         95               82            72
Dec. 1991    1.5        30.0        100               85            75
March 1992                                            88            78
June 1992                                             91           81
1993    Sept. 1993                                            93            84
Dec. 1993                                             95           87
March 1994                                            98            90
June 1994                                            100            92
1994    Sept. 1994                                                          94
Dec. 1994                                                           96
March 1995                                                          98
June 1995                                                          100
/a      Expected Signing Date             July      1987
Expected Effectiveness  Date    November 1987
Expected Completion Date         December 1990
Expected Closing Date             December 1991
/b      For a three year commitment period (instead of a usual four to five
years under relevant profiles)
/c      Taking into account that retroactive financing is recommended after
November 30, 1986
/d      Initial disbursement under Special Account.



- 62 -
Table 13
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farmers in Tunisia s
Farm Size    Total Area    No. of Farmers
(ha)      (ha '000)     Unit         S
A. Rainfed Ariculture
1. Subsistence Farmers            5 and less       336       149,600       43
2. Low-Income Farmers with
farm development potential        5-20        1,496 /a    140,000       40
3. Medium size farms                20-100       1,947        54,600 /b   16
4. Large farms                  more than 100   1,306 /c       4,400        1
TOTAL Rainfed Ld                      5,085        348,600     100
B. Irrigated Agriculture
1. Small-medium farms             less than 20  124,2         54,550       95
2. Large farms                    more than 20   60,4          2,650        5
TOTAL Irrigated /e                    184,6         57,200     100
La Only 701 of area considered as serious potential, and 601 of the farmers in
this group potentially eligible to bank credit.
/b This group is potentially eligible to bank credit.
/c Excluding "Agro-combinats"'  pilot farms, and production Cooperatives.
Large farms are bancable.
/d The Agricultural investment code of 1982 classifies investments and/or
their promoters in three categories:
(i)   Catesory A. investments made by small and medium farmers and
fishing-vessel operators either in the form of specific projects or
within the context of supervised regional programs;
(ii)   Category B. investments made by small and medium farmers and
fishing-vessel operators in the form of small- or medium-scale
integrated projects; and
(iii)  Category C. investments made by large-scale operators in the form of
specific or integrated projects or within the context of highly
porduction-oriented ventures.
Category A investments only are eligible to FOSDA sub-loans and subdidies, on
condition that farm-size is less than 60 ha (the size of eligible farms may
vary from less than 4 ha to 60 ha according to the type of crop grown). This
means that about 902 of rainfed farmers are eligible for FOSDA loans and
subsidies, i.e. too many, although it turned out that the FOSDA system is
reaching less than 8,000 farmers p.a., i.e. very few.
/e Irrigated agriculture is bancable.
(2968Ep22)



- 63 -
IAkIA'4
STAFf APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Monitoring Ind1catsrs
296SEo23
1983-86   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Average
AGCRCULTURAL CREDIT
- Total Agricultural Credit
Oulstandina
(Million of Dinars,
end of year figures)
Short-Term                              200
Medium- & long-term                      190
)- Irrigation
)- Machinery
)- Livestock
)- Fruit Trees
)- fisheries
O- Others
Total Credit of which                   390
Direct Credit to Farmers              265
Indirect Credit (OWN. OC...)          125
- Banking-Systg. Lending Committents
in Agriulture
Short-Term                              240
OUT                                 135
Other Com,ercial Banks              105
Medium- & Long-Term                      170
BN7                                 160
Other Comercial Banks                 1
BNOA                                  9
Total Commitments                       410
of which
% of Banks Own Resources              20%
- Recovery Rate La lon Princigall 
GNT's own Resources                      89
World Bank Funds                      65-82
FOSOA/FOSEP                              48
Supervised Projects                   17-5S
BUT Average                              70
Com ercial Banks (Ag. Credit)            90
DNOA                                     78
- Number of Active gorrowars
(Ag. Credit)
BUT                                 250.000
Other Banks                           1.000
- Ratio of Prgyision for Losses at BNT        3.5
Outstanding Portfolio
L& Recoveries are a key indicator of the performance of an agricultural credit system.
Mhe arrears position at year end con be defined as the amounts overdue at the
beginning of the year plus amounts fallen due during the year, minus amounts
collected during the year. Aging of arrears is also important to determine .n
appropriate policy of provision for bad debts.



- 64 -
Iakl 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA 
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production Levels and growth Rates /a of Key Agricultural Products
lYth Plan         Vth Plan          VIth Plan       Past 15 Years
tl972-761         (1.9 P-Ul 1        11982-86)         (1972-861
'OOOt     %       'OOOt     %        'OOOt     X       'OOOt     %
----------- (-----------   (per   annum)  -------------------------
Cereals                1,116.4   4.4       993.6   7.3      1,303.0   4.9   1,137.6    2.2
Ourum wheat          704.0   7.4       654.8   5.6        723.0   1.4      693.9    1.4
Bread wheat          151.4  (9.4)      111.6   8.0        182.0   9.7      148.3    0.7
Barley               261.0   7.5       227.2  12.6        398.0  10.3      295.4    5.1
FrUits                 1,090.4   5.2     1,028.2  (0.8)    1,064.1   2.9   1,060.9    0.8
Oil olives           625.6   5.5       521.0  (3.8)       490.0  (0.1)    554.2   (1.1)
Dates                 50.6   6.1        51.8  (0.5)        55.8  (4.9)      52.7    1.4
Citrus               119.2  13.3       188.6   3.8        193.8   2.3      167.2    5.8
Almonds               21.4  14.5        32.6   8.3         41.0   8.9       31.7    7.8
Y.eetables               892.6   6.0     1,116.6   4.1      1,330.0   4.8   1,113.1    4.4
Potatoes             97.0   4.2        115.0   7.9        141.0   4.4      117.7    4.1
Tomatoes             228.8   9.7       304.0   5.2        379.6   6.5      304.1    5.8
Peppers               96.8   3.7       124.8  (0.3)       127.6   7.3      116.4    2.9
Helons/Watermelons  195.6  11.1        258.0   5.1        319.6   3.3      257.7    5.8
Livestock                680.5   7.5       867.9   8.1      1,475.4   6.4   1,079.0    7.9
Cattle                56.8  10.3        61.6  (5.1)        56.9   2.3       57.3    1.0
Sheep                60.9   4.4         57.4  (2.0)        66.8   6.7      61.7    1.3
Poultry               21.4  14.1        50.7  15.8         57.2   0.2      41.3   10.8
M11k                 225.4   8.0       257.4  (1.5)       293.2   6.1      258.7    3.2
Fish                      41.6  10.5        56.7   3.4         74.8   8.8       57.7    6.5
Coastal               16.8  12.4        22.8   0.6         29.9   8.4       23.2    6.5
Deepsea                8.3   6.8        10.6   2.9         17.0  11.2       12.0    7.1
Ja Calculated by least-squares method.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Planning and Economic Analyses (DPSAE).
2968E/p24



- 65-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Performance Under Previous Agricuural Credit Projects
1.      Bank past lending for agriculture in Tunisia includes three
agricultural credit projects for a total of US$ 50 million of Bank/IDA funds.
Experience has shown that the development impact of credit in Tunisia depends
critically on the policies influencing the role of banking institutions (e.g.
interest rates and spreads), their financial resources, and recovery efforts.
A. Ihe First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN).
2.      The Bank's First Agricultural Credit Project provided US$8.0 million
to finance part of the National Bank of Tunisia's (BNT) lending for: (i)
on-farm investments for mechanization of grain production for 636 farm
families owning approximately 275,000 ha; (ii) dairy development for 83
farmers; and (iii) date palm plantations. In addition, it provided technical
assistance for BNT's Credit Division. In 1974, amendments to the Loan and
Credit Agreements were made to enlarge the project scope and include an
agro-industrial component for cereal and dairy production. The loan/credit
was not fully disbursed until thirty-four months after the original closing
date date because Bank Group funds were onlent at higher interest rates than
FOSDA funds. Final closing date was July 31, 1978. The overall economic rate
of return of the project was over 30% compared to 222 at appraisal primarily
due to the increased rate of return for the date palm plantations and the
addition of a milk plant component. The issue of interest rates to farmers
was a matter of concern and discussion during project implementation. It
finally resulted in an agreement under the Second Agricultural Credit Project,
by which more appropriate lending terms for agriculture in Tunisia were
sought. The Project Performance Audit Report was issued in December 1978.
B. The Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1340-TUN).
3.      In contrast to the First Agricultural Credit project, this second
project provided investment credit to: (i) small/medium farm operators who,
up to 1976, had limited access to institutional credit; (ii) farmers
associations for date palm plantations; (iii) agro-industries; and (iv)
production cooperatives, after amendment of the Loan Agreement in October
1979. The amount of the Bank loan was US$12 million. Actual disbursements
(US$11.9 million) took two-and-half years longer than expected, arnd as of June
30, 1983 US$0.1 million was cancelled. BNT's lending to agriculture in
general expanded substantially during the project implementation period, but
BNT made no profit from these operations. BNT, however, is financially viable
because its main activity-and main source of income-is lending to industrial
and commercial enterprises. The Project Performance Audit Report was issued
December 1984. There are no reliable data on ERR due to BNT's limited success
in establishing an adequate monitoring system. However, the financial rate of
return for the entire project was 33%. Again, the problem of less attractive



- 66 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page 2
onlending terms for Bank funds than for Government funds caused disburg-ments
to be slower than expected. The problem was compounded by the
overcentralization of BNT's subloan approval process. Although the Bank's
efforts to change credit policy in Tunisia during project implementation have
not been significantly successful, the project generally appeared to have
achieved its objectives.
C. The Third Agrltul Credit ProJect (Loan 1885-TN).
4.       The Project finances part of BNT's medium- and long-term lending to
small, medium and commercial farmers, production and service cooperatives, and
to agro-industry investors. The project also aims at improving agricultural
credit extension on a nationwide basis. The Bank loan amount is US$30
million, which was fully committed end June 1986 and fully disbursed beginning
LMarch 1987. The original closing date was December 31, 1983, the final one
being December 31, 1986. Main problems are: (i) credit discipline in Tunisia
and level of interest rates; (ii) debt collection (average of 722 at
end-1985); and (iii) separate lending programs for agricultural credit, with
different appraisal criteria, lending terms and lending procedures creating
confusion and discrimination. As noted in para. 3.14(a) of the main text,
action was taken in 1985 to increase interest rates. This action represents a
good first step of gradually bringing agricultural interest rates in line with
market rates. The physical implementation of the project progressed
satisfactorily once Loan monitoring activities resumed in 1984. BNT also made
good progress in 1984 and 1985 in pursuing its decentralization efforts of its
subloan approval process, in opening new branches 1n rural areas, and in
controlling subloans commitments and recoveries. BNT issued a completion
report in December 1986, and the Bank issued a PCR in April 1987.
5.       Lessons Learned.  A first important lesson that can be learned from
past credit projects in Tunisia, is the over-reliance of the existing credit
system on Government budget allocations and the proliferation of credit
programs made available tG the farmers' community on terms and conditione.
which vary widely, clog the delivery circuits, and are not an effective means
of reaching small farmers cheaply. Subsidized interest rates do not
necessarily help the smaller farmers in whose name these are imposed. The
second lesson is the reluctance of the banks to devote much money to
agricultural lending because: (i) loans to farmers are risky, and often not
repaid, (ii) guarantees are insufficient, (iii) agricultural credit delivery
is expensive, (iv) interest rates, spreads, and management fees, are too low
to cover financial and operating expenses, and (v) policy for provision for
bad debts (risk factor) is inadequate. The third lesson is the neglect of
domestic resource mobilization, rural savings in particular, mainly because of
the adverse impact on the financial system of inappropriate interest rates.
Since end-1985 most interest rates applying to agricultural credit became
positive in real terms. Similarly, interest rates paid on time and ravings
deposits are positive in real terms, and are now liberalized. The trend
toward a more appropriate interest rate structure is a good starting point
which sets the tone for the broader credit policy adjustments needed during
the Seventh Economic Development Plan (1987-1991). Some adjustments are
underway under the current ASAL (para. 3.16), and further reforms have been
agreed under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (para. 6.03 to 6.11).



-67-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRALSAL REPORT
TUNSA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDfT PROJECT
Loa Mutual Credit Fun  (CLCMs) aaS
Mutual Guarantee Actudtuwd Societies 5CLA)
1.       The CLCMs ("Caisses Locales de Cr6dit Mutuel") were first set up in
1963. They spread rapidly at the time, providing their members with banking
services (current account, time deposits) and short-term agricultural and
non-agricultural credit. In 1969, there were 54 CLCMs with some 78,000
members. Subsequently, however, poor management, the absence of sizable
resources of their own, and the failure to develop the true spirit of mutual
assistance that was meant to underlie their actions made them vulnerable.
Concurrently with the decision to promote the establishment of SCMAs (page 2),
the authorities intervened by placing te CLCMs under the supervision of BNT,
and imposing severe constraints on their operations. As a consequence, they
have virtually disappeared except in the Cap-Bon region after being wound up
end 1982 and transformed into branches of BNT. There are currently 16 of
these CLCMs, with a total of 30,000 members, and their role in financing
agriculture is relatively small. The total resources of the 16 remaining
CLCMs are as follows:
CLCM RESOURCES AT YEAR-END
(in D million)
1984                       1985
Own funds         0.9                        0.9
Deposits          3.1                         1.3
Total             4.0                         2.2
Outstanding loans (all categories) stood at D 0.4 million end 1984, and at D
0.2 million end 1985. Arrears amount to about D 3.3 million. The CLCMs' low
level of lending reflects the fact that they have largely fallen out of favor,
so much so that their number is likely to continue falling, to be replaced by
BNT agencies. Even at present their autonomy exists only on paper. Decisions
by their loan committees have to be ratified by BNT above a certain amount or
if the applicant has past missed payments. Their lending terms and conditions
are identical with those of BNT, and BNT in fact manages the CLCMs' deposits
and loans. Consideration should be given to encouraging and supporting those
few CLCMs that show vitality as part of BNT's decentralization process (para.
4.04 of the main text).                            i



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
2.       The SCMAs ("Societes de Caution Mutuelle Agricoles"), first
established in 1973-74, are organizations of farmers who subscribe to their
capital stock (minimum share is D 5) in order to obtain loans. The SCMAs thus
guarantee loans obtained by their members from BNT which makes these loans
from its own resources. At the end of 1985, there were 407 SCMAs with a total
of 77,000 members. As they are designed to enable small and medium farmers to
increase their production, their membership is now defined by the 1983 decree
No. 83/25 in terms of area under cultivation or crops grown. The Tunisian
State assumes 702 of the risk, the SCMA guarantees 252, and BNT the remaining
5X. However, because their own funds are so small, the SCMAs are not in a
position to cover the risk to which they are exposed. End December 1983, the
capital of all existing SCMAs as a group amounted to D 0.4 million, while
arrears on loans granted to them amounted to D 14.4 million. The SCMA system
is, consequently, in crisis, mainly because the farmer-borrowers do not always
make a distinction between loans and subsidies. this confusion is compounded
by the fact that the loan is granted by a committee which includes
representives of the Central Government (Agriculture and Finance) and on which
BNT has only one representative without veto powers. BNT also incurs a
substantial loss of potential earnings in that it is required to carry
unrecoverable debts for a minimum of two years, since the Government does not
carry out financial consolidation until after this period has elapsed. Given
the high accumulation of arrears, however, the Government decided in 1984 to
(a) assume the entire responsibility for SCMAs arrears (95% of default), BNT
assuming the 5X risk remaining, and being responsible for continuing the
recovery efforts; and (b) reorganize the SCMAs. As a result, seasonal loans
were renewed only to SCMA members who had repaid their 1982/83 loans, the
authorities have limited the number of members of each SCMA to 200, and a
ratio has been set (i) between the capital of each SCMA and the total
guaranteed amount of loans (ratio of 1 to 8); and (ii) for the volume of funds
that may be borrowed by an individual member (eight times the member's
shareholding). At the end of 1985, SCMAs arrears stood at D 3.3. million
representing no less than 72% of a total of D 4.5 million outstanding.  The
Government has already consolidated D 14.4 million in unpaid loans out of a
total of D 17.8 million, giving a real recovery rate of only 22%. Despite the
organizational and financial measures taken, the SCMA system is not working
satisfactorily, as borrowers still view loans as no-cost assistance and cannot
see any need to repay them. For just this one category of loans, unrecovered
claims account for more than 18% of total agricultural arrears at the end of
1985. SCMAs creation in 1973-74 was the result of a Governnment decision and
not an initiative of the farmers themselves. These organizations do not play
an active role in credit transactions: they do not appraise, approve or
follow-up loans to members; they do not assist members to prepare loan
applications; they only provide a caution and a financial guarantee that
failed to work properly. The SC4As, which role is already small, are expected
to be replaced in the future by private associations of producers and water
users with acLess to institutional credit.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOI Rfl A*RICUL1uOAL CREOYT PROJECT
Policy and Institutional Reforms Matrix
(ASAL agreement)
2968Eo29
Medium-Term Adjustment                     Short-Term Measures
Govermnent           Recent Actions Taken                                                   Progtrn - 1986-1991                             1986-1987
Objective               by Government                     Outstanding issues                    (Priorities)                              (Priorities)
Encouraging        1. Raising of interest         1. Inadequate resource mobiliz-        Implementation of an Action           (a) Freezing FOSOA budget allocations
the banking           rates by 0.75% to 2f           ation for agriculture (e.g.         Plan aiming at:                            in 1987 at the same level as in
sector to             in 1985.  Rates are            rural savings) and inefficient    1. Improving the mobilization                1986 In nominal tem  and
increase its          now positive in real           use of available resources             of banks internal resources            reducing them by 15  in 1988
role in               terms.                                                                (rural savings) and imoroving            (Decision by 12/86)
mobilizing                                                                                  the financial efficiency of
resources and      2. Enforcing collection        2. Htih cost to the Government            agricultural credit operations   (b) Preparing an action plan
in providing          of arrears. & improv-          of subsidies provided through          through increased fungibility          by source of funds on the finan-
credit to             ing recovery perform-          FOSOA and other special funds          of funds                               cial viability of agricultural
farmers               ance.                                                                                                        credit operations (1980-85
3. Inadequate risk sharing             2. Phasing out Government budget          performance and 1986-91
3. Restricting FOSDA/FOSEP                                               allocations to FOSDA credit            prospects) and implementing the
credits to small and       4. Low recovery rates                      functions and to other special         recommendations on rates.
medium farmers/fishermen                                              credit funds while mobilizing          margins (spreads) risk-sharing
5. Need to revise spreads on              other resources for institutional    and recovery system (06/87):
4. Making operational the         agricultural credit                    credit                                 First interest rate increase.
National Guarantee            operations as an incentive                                                     acceptable to the Bank is a
Fund (FIIG) for small         for the banking sector to            3. Transferring part of the risk          condition of second tranche
and medium farmers            finance agriculture                     assumed by Government to SBT           release of the ASAL.
and to the banking sector, and
6. Need to define small and               revising agriculture lending                                               0
medism farmers eligibility             procedures
to institutional credit by
according sufficient weight         4. Implementing the recovery
to their income                        measures taken, rescheduling
certain debts when justified
7. Proliferation of Agri-                 (natural disasters) and
cultural credit programs               eliminating the tax on
with different requirements            provisions for bad agri-
and complex procedures                 cultural debts
S. Increasing the interest
rates permitted for agricultural
lending operations to cover
financial and operating costs
and a reasonable part of the
risks
6. Defining the eligibility of
small and medium farmers to
institutional credit by according
sufficient weight to their
agricultural net revenues in
order to reach a larger number
of small and medium farmers
through Bank credit, and provide
special Govt financial assistance
to low-income farmers.
7. Harmonizing terms and conditions
for subloans supplied to farmers
by a lead Bank system.



- 70 -
29685p30
AEX 4
Page 1
STAFF APRISAL REPORT
FOURTH AGRCULTURAL ClREfI? PJECT
Xndicative Prejat Lending Praram
1. ditaum and lena-term Credit
Average Unit        No. of      MilliontA  Million   Total
Cost of Investmont  subprojects                          Cost
(a)                            (0)      (US$)
1.  Small and madium farmers        4,S00            3,400          15.4      17.7     32
2.  Larger Farumrs                 25.000              615          IS.4      17.7     32
3.  Cooperatives                   30,000              160          4.8        S.5      10
4.  Agroindustry Investors        285,000               23           6.5       7.5      14
S.  Fisherman                       8,900              640           5.7       6.6      12
-Engine renewal         10,000-50,000        (100)        (3.9)      (4.S)    (8)
-Fishing gear            1.000-5S000         (540)        (1.8)      (2.1)    (4)
6.  Ttal Cost                                                      4z.        MAR    in
Less:
Subborrowers Contribution                                       10.4      12.0
Government special resources                                     3.7       4.3
7. Total eadiuan. ad
Long term credit    round1n
(a) discrepancies due to rounding



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
2. BNT's Proiject-Related Subloans Commitments /a
2968Ep31
1987    1988    1989    1990    TOTAL
----- D million ------            
Subloans to:
1.  Small and medium Farmers           2.3      3.2     3.3      1.S     10.4
2.  Larger Farmers                     2.5      3.4     3.4      1.5     10.8
3.  Cooperatives                       1.0      1.0     1.0      0.5      3.5
4. Agroindustry Investors              1.0      1.5     1.6      0.5      4.6
5.  Fishermen                          1.0      1.3     1.5      0.6      4.4
Total Commitments             7.8    10.4    10.8      4.7      33.7
US$ Equivalent                8.9    12.0    12.4      5.4      38.7
2 p.a.                   23      31       32      14       100
3. BNT's Project-Related Subloans Disbursements /a
1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    TOTAL
---- -- D million
Subloans disbursed for: /b
1.  Small and medium Farmers   1.8    2.5       2.6     2.5      1.0     10.4
2.  Larger Farmers              1.8    2.6      2.6     2.6      1.2     10.8
3.  Cooperatives                0.7    0.9      0.9     0.6     0.4       3.5
4.  Agroindustry Investors      0.7    1.0      1.3     1.2      0.4      4.6
5.  Fishermen                   0.7    0.8      1.6     0.9      0.4      4.4
Total Disbursements   5.7    7.8      9.0      7.8     3.4      33.7
US$ Equivalent         6.6    8.9    10.4      8.9     3.9      38.7
2 p.a.            17     23     *27       23      10       100
/a  Excludes, consequently, subborrowers and Government contribution to
subproject investment cost.
/b  Assuming a ratio of 701 between subloans disbursed and committed by BNT



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
4. BNT's Pro.ect-Related Subloans at
Year-end and cumulative
1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    TOTAL
1. Number of subloans granted        1,113  1,500   19548   677      -        4,838
2. BNT Commitments (D Million)       7.8    10.4    10.8    4.7      -        33.7
3. BNT Disbursements (D Million)    5.7    7.8       9.0     7.8     3.4      33.7
4. IBRD Disbursements /a
'(US$ million)                   5.0    7.0     8.0      7.0     3.0     27.5
(968Ep32)
/a From FY88 to FY92 on the basis of 75% of amounts disbursed by BNT under
such subloans.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Financial Position
1. Summary of Balance Sheets 1981-1985 /a /b
(D '000)
As of December 31
(2968Ep33)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                       23,269    7,939   16,347   19,304   11,996
Bills Discounted                     85,312   94,682  112,959  110,980  116,201
Short-Term Loans & Advances          89,392  107,309  117,411  158,493  187,046
Term Loans                           87,835  104.234  127.212  145,613  174,615
Subtotal Normal Risk Assets       262,539  306,225  357,582  415,086  477,862
Other Collectible                     4,880    2,691    3,701    4,314    4,736
Government Bonds & Securities        46,646   53,470   62,153   74,233   94,031
Equity Participations                 8,234    9,561   10,639   11,164   13,188
Other Assets                        121,585  182,66;  197,653  248,645  256,335
Met Fixed Assets                    = 4,452    4,597    5,852    7,491    7,938
TOTAL ASSETS                      471,605  567,150  653,927  780,037  866,086
==u=   u=      =  z== _  =  =m=====  ==a==m=
LIABILITIES
Demand Deposits                     185,436  223,954  279,667  319,075  359,319
Term Deposits                        54,436   48,506   48,235   58,858   71,973
Banks and Correspondents             12,693   10,558   12,945   10,154   16,840
Other Creditors                       6,104    6,999    7,772    7,967   10,694
Subtotal                          258,669  290,017  348,619  396,054  458,826
Special Funds
FOSDA                             42,307   48,423   57,870   61,006   68,575
FOSEP                              12,307   14,239   14,029   17,447   19,613
IBRD-IDA                          12,584   14,687   21,842   25,003   28,101
Other                              22.664   24,733   25.431   42,421   47,684
Subtotal                          89,862  102,082  119,172  145,877  163,973
Provisions for Bad Debts              9,924   12,790   17,538   23,078   30,270
Other Liabilities                    87.346  134,464  138,468  182,121  177,062
TOTAL LIABILITIES                445,801  539,353  623,797  747,130  830,131
EQUITY
Capital                              12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000
Reserves                             13.804   159797   18.129   20.908   23,954
Subtotal Equity                    25,804   27,797   30,129   32,908   35,954
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY    471,605  567,150  653,927  780,037  866,086
u===   ======  ======Z  ====:B=  =2S===Z=
Off-Balance Sheet
Guarantees & Acceptances            235,567  247,471  343,676  307,247  350,219
Collections on Behalf of GOT          3,001    2,969    9,709    7,938   16,996
la Audited
/ After net income allocation



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Financial Position
2. Income Statements, 1981-85 /a
(D '000)
As of December 31
(2968Ep34)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
INCOME
Interest Income /b
on Loans                          n.a.    n.a.    20,788   24,733   29,943
on Deposits                       n.a*   n.a.    14,425   19,606   24,728
Other                             n.a.    n.a.      1,566    1,543    1,685
Subtotal                      22,351   29,559   36,779   45,882   56,356
Other Income                       6,657    6,907    8,003    9,379   12,392
TOTAL INCOME                  29,008   36,466   44,781   55,261   68,748
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses /b
on Deposits                       n a      n a      9,124   11,521   14,913
on Borrowing                      n a      n a      8,711   13,938   18,690
Other                             n a      n a      1,375    1,766    2,615
Subtotal                      12,699   17,024   19,210   27,225   36,218
Personnel                          5,871    7,200    8,764    9,447   10,148
Depreciation                         450       548      591      718    1,024
Other Operating Expenses           2,006    2,395    3,166    3,646    3,957
Reserves for Bad Debts /c          2,733    2,866    4,748    6,368    8,514
TOTAL EXPENSES                23,759   30,033   36,479   47,404   59,861
_===    ===        ===-   -_D==   2======
PRE-TAX INCOME                     5,249    6,433    8,302    7,858    8,887
Income Taxes                       2,877    3,659    4,900    4,047    4,694
NET INCOME                         2,372    2,774    3,402    3,811    4,193
Available for Allocation Id        2,412    2,809    3,448    3,878    4,234
ALLOCATION
Legal Reserve                        119       139      170       26        -
Extraordinary Reserve                500    1,270        -       750       750
Social Assistance Fund               250       271      275      320       350
Director's Fees                       25        11       25       25        25
Dividends                            540       700    1,035    1,080    1,080
Tax-Free Reserve Reinvestment        943      373    1,876    1,636    1,946
Balance Carried Forward               35       46        67       42        83
/a Audited
/b Breakdown not available for 1981 and 1982
/c Essentially not deductible from taxable income
/d Discrepancies with net income due to previous year adjustments



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Financial Position
3.  Sources and APplications of Funds 1981 - 1985
(D Million)
(2968EP34)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
SOURCES
Net Income After Adjustment           2.4      2.8       3.4      3.8       4,i
Depreciation and Provisions           3.5      3.4       5.3      7.1      .4
Cash Flow Generated                5.9       6.2       8.7     10.9      13.7
Increase In:
Capital & Reserves                 6.0       -         -        -         -
Demand Deposits                   28.5      38.5      55.7     39.4      40.2
Bonds and Terms Deposits           0.9      (5.9)    (0.3)    10.6       13.1
Bank Borrowings                    5.6      (2.1)      2.4     (2.8)      6.7
Other Creditors                    (0.8)     0.9       0.8      0.2 7
Special Funds Borrowings           9.3      12.2      17.1     26.7      18.1
Other Liabilities                 30.3      47.1       4,0     43.7      (5.2)
TOTAL SOURCES                   85.8      96.9     88.5    128.7       89.3
APPLICATIONS
Increase In:
Discounted Bills                  15.5       9.4     18.3      (2.0)      5.2
BNT-funded Loans                   8.2      18.4     10.7      42.7      30.8
Special Funds Loans               13.1      16.4     23.0      18.4      29.0
Subtotal                        36.8      44.2     52.0      59.1     65.0
Increase In:
Liquid Assets                     (1.0)   (14.5)      9.5       4.0      (6.1)
Other Collectibles                 2.9      (2.2)      1.0      0.6       0.4
Government Bonds & Securities      6.9       6.8      8.7      12.1      19.8
Equity Participations              0.8       1.3      1.1       0.5       2.0
Other Assets                      38.1      61.1     15.0      51.0       7.7
Fixed Assets                       1.3       0.1       1.3      1.4       0.6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              85.8      96.9     88.5    128.7      89.3
e:=  ===2:    =s==:   m===



- 76-                              ANNEX -
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Financial Position
4. Ratios Reflectng Fiancial Condition and Profitability 1981-1985
(2q9AREp31)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
RATIOS ON FINANCIAL CONDITION
Debt-to-Equity (leverage)           17.3     19.4      20.7     22.7      23.1 /b
Long-Term Debt-to-Equity             0.81     0.86      1.03     1.23      1.27
Risk Assets to Core Deposits         1.09      1.12     1.09     1.10      1.11
Change in Normal Risk Assets 2      16.3      16.6     16.8     16.1      15.1
Provisions as 2 of
Total Risk Assets la               1.99     2.31      2.50     3.19     3.66
PROFITABILITY RATIOS (2)
Income On:
Loans                              n.a.     n.a.      6.26     6.40     6.71
Total Assets                       6.76     7.02      7.33     7.71     8.35
Interest Expense On:
Deposits                           n.ea.    n.a.      3.04     3.26      3.69
Total Resources                    2.96     3.28      3.15     3.80     4.40
Spread On:
Loans                              U.&.     n.e.      3.11     2.60     2.31
Total Assets                       3.80     3.74      4.18     3.91     3.95
Overatins Espensea On-,
Total Assets                       2.58     2.50      2.83     2.81     2.87
Pre-Tax Income On:
Loans                              2.15     2.26      2.50     2.03     1.99
Total Assets                       1.22     1.24      1.35     1.10     1.08
Return on Equity (Pre-Tax)          24.03    24.00    28.66    24.93    25.81
a/ Defined as loans outstanding plus guarantees and acceptances (off balance
sheet).
b/ Ratio is 18.7 after capital increase of TD. 8 million effective 1-1-86.
It is 19.8 if Government funds are excluded from total liabilities (16.2
after capital increase).



- 77 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 5
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNSA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDrr PROJECT
BNT P?oMeted Financial Position
1. Finanal Tearets 1986-1990
A. Reuources
1.       Deposits:  BNTs aim over the coming five years is to increase its
deposits by about 102 each year. This should allow it to maintain its share
of the market while raising deposits' share of total liabilities from 52% in
1985 to over 55% in 1990.
2.       Special Funds:  BNTs Special Funds (mainly borrowed funds in the
future) will continue on an upward curve. These funds are forecast to
increase at an annual compounded rate of 8.4X to D 245 milli#,n in 1990.
3.       Refinacingo: such resources, which are constituted practically
entirely by rediscounting facilities at the Central Bank, are to increase from
D 258.7 million at December 31, 1985 to D 340.0 million at December 31, 1990.
4.       Equity:  as already noted, a capital increase of D 11 million was
approved by BNTs Board in 1985, and took effect on January 1, 1986. Of the
total, D 8 million represented actual fresh new capital, while the remaining
D 3 million came from an incorporation of reserves into capital. Also, a
contribution to equity will come from reinvested profits (in the form of new
reserves and other net income carried forward) of D 17.8 million (including
the D 3 million transfer to capital in 1986) over the 1985-1990 period.
B. AN4iD s  of Funds
5.       Loan Commitments:  BNT's aim is to increase its financing of the
economy while maintaining its share of overall credit extended by commercial
banks (25.72 in 1985). This is to be achieved through:
(a) an increase in BNT-funded loans from D 187.0 million in 1985 to
D 250.9 million in 1990 (compounded annual increase: 6.12);
(b) a 7.72 annual increase in Special Funds commitments, as a counterpart
to the new type of Special Funds mentioned in para.2 above; and
(c) a 6.02 annual increase in discounted bills.
6.       Guarantees and Acceptances:  these off-balance sheet items would grow
from D 350 million to D 470 million between 1985 and 1990 year-ends.
7.       Financial Papar:  given existing trends and ratios concerning
development bonds (which represent 20S of deposits), Caisse Nationale
d'Epargne Logement (CNEL) loans (22 of deposits), Government securities and
other paper, and equity participations in other firms, total securities, and
other investments would grow from D 107 million in 1985 to D 165 million in
1990.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5
Page 2
8.       Fixed Assets:  To accomodate the expected future development of its
operations, BNT plans to undertake the following:
(a) expansion of the BNT network of branches, particularly in the
rural areas, by 6 bronches and 10 offices opened or scheduled to
be opened in 1986, and by 6 new branches each year between 1987
and 1990;
(b) procurement and renewal of furniture and miscellaneous buildings
and equipment;
(c) construction of new headquarters to house all the central
departments in one single location; and
(d) replacement of the existing data processing equipment (at
branches, in central departments and at the level of the central
unit) and installation of new equipment in all branches and
departments not yet computerized.
The total investment involved will amount to D 10.4 million.
C. Operating Results
9.       Interest income has been projected on the basis of a gradual increase
in the average yield on outstandings (average of beginning and year-end
outstandings) as follows (in _):
1985    1986    1987      1988   1989   1990
Sub-Loans                          8.64    8.85    9.05       9.25   9.35   9.45
Discounted Bills, Guarantees,
Acceptances                   5.79    5.90    6.00       6.10   6.20   6.30
Securities & Other Investments    5.99    6.00    6.00        6.00   6.00   6.00
10.      Interest expenses on deposits have also been scheduled to increase
gradually over the coming five years, as a result of the liberalization of
interest rate ceilings instituted by the Central Bank January 1, 1987, except
for priorli  sectors (agriculture, export and small-scale enterprises).  Cost
of averag,- deposits would increase from an actual 3.691 in 1985 to 3.92 in
1986, 4.1S in 1987, 4.32 in 1988, 4.41 in 1989, and 4.51 in 1990. Other
interest expenses would remain constant as a percentage of outstandings.
11.      Operating expenses have been projected to go up sharply by 10.55% in
1986 as a result of heavy new investments incurred that year. The increase
will then be a more normal 2.0%, 3.4%, 6.81, and 7.5S in subsequent years.
12.      Reserves ror bad debts were pushed up to D 9 million in 1986 and D 10
million in subsequent years, reflecting the need to substantially build up the
reserve pool as a buffer against future loan losses.
13.      Operating Result.  As a result, pre-tax income would gradually grow
from D 8.9 million in 1985 (actual) to D 13.6 million in 1990.
D. Resuting Projected Financil Statements
14.      Resulting BNT projected Financial statements (1986-90) are in Annex
5, Tables 6 to 8.



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Proiected Financial Position
2. Projected Balance Sheets 1986-1990
(D '000)
As of December 31
(2968p39)
1985      1986      1987      1988       1989       1990
Actual     --    ----Prolected
ASSETS
Cash and Banks         11,996    11,225    20,016    25,105    31,827    40,071
Bills Discounted      116,201   128,473   141,508   143,484   148,451   155,767
Short-Term Loans      187,046   206,966   227,964   231,148   239,149   250,935
Special Funds Loans  174,615   204,134   209,591   224,179   238,751   253,338
Total Risk Assets    477,862   539,573   579,063   598,811   626,351   660,040
Securities and
Other Investments   107,219   108,409   120,448   134,069   148,777   165,288
Other Aasets          261,071   260,254   274,477   318,145   369,615   409,258
Net Fixed Assets        7,938     9,633    14,976    19,846    20,846    20,581
Total Assets         866,086   929,124 1,008,980 1,095,976 1,197,416 1,295,238
_=_,,,,   _ -=  _ . == ==== =m===
LIABILITIES
Deposits             431,292   461,000   508,000   557,000   615,000   674,000
Special Funds         163,973   186,306   201,602   216,137   230,662   245,193
Provisions for
Bad Debts            30 t70    39,270    49,270    599270    69,270    79,270
Other Liabilities    204,596   195_14,5  200,000   210,000   225,000   235,000
Total Liabilities    830,131   881,99i   958,872 1,042,407 1,139,932 1,233,463
EQUITY
Capital                12,000    23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000
Reserves               23,954    24,133    27,108    30,569    34,484    38,775
Subtotal Equity       35,954    47,133    50,108    53,569    57,484    61,775
Total Liabilities
and Equity          866,086   929,124 1,008,980 1,095,976 1,197,416 1,295,238
~~-        --   --____ ___  ==--     =____--    ____ ===
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
Guarantees ar'
Acceptances         350,219   350,000   360,000   400,000   443,000   470,000



- 80 -
ANNEX 5
Table 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Prolected Financial Position
3. Projected Income Statements 1986-1990
(D '000)
As of December 31
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
Actual                 --   Projected-
INCOME
Interest Income
on Loans                 28,765   34,195   38,402   41,296   43,628   46,408
on Discounts,
Guarantees,
& Acceptances         25,603   27,874   29,399   31,872   35,183   38,342
Other Interest             1.988    2.100   22,000   23,000    2,400    2,500
Subtotal                  56,356   64,169   70,001   75,468   81,211   87,250
Income on Securities
auid Other Investments     5,758    6,469    6,866    7,636    8,485    9,422
Other                      6.624    6.900    7.300    7.700    8,100    8,500
Total Income              68,748   77,538   84,167   90,804   97,796  105,172
_=_S15:=    ==== ===   ===5=_  SG=:==
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses
on Deposits              14,913   17,400   19,864   22,897   25,784   29,002
on Borrowingc            18,690   21,122   23,391   25,190   26,942   28,694
Other                      2,615    2,800    3.000    3200    3.400    3,600
Subtotal                  36,218   41,322   46,255   51,287   56,126   61,296
Personnel                 10,148   11,219   11,444   11,829   12,628   13,574
Depreciation               1,024    1,132    1,155    1,194    1,274    1,370
Other Operating
Expenses                  3,957    4,374    4,462    4,612    4,924    5,293
Reserves for Bad Debts   8S514    9,000   10.000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Total Expenses            59,861   67,047   73,316   78,922   84,952   81,533
X   _   ~=sa     =       ==:=:   :5S:===   ==---
PRE-TAX INCOME               8,887   10,491   10,851   11,882   12,844   13,639
Income Taxes               4,694    5,539    5,729    6,274    6,782    7,201
NET INCOME                   4,193    4,952    5,122    5,608    j062    6,438
ALLOCATION
Dividends                  1,080    1,710    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070
Director's Fees               25        63        77       77        77       77
Social Assistance Fund      °350       385      430       480      530       590
Reserves                   2,696    2,758    2,S516    2,899    3,340    3,638
Balance Carried
Forward                      83        36       29        82       45        63



-81 -                             ANEX 5
Table 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNT Pro ected Financial Position
4. Projected Sources and Applications of Funds 1986-1990
(D Million)
1986     1987     1988     1989      1990
SOURCES
Net Income After Adjustment             5.0      5.1       5.6      6.1      6.4
Depreciation and Provisions            10.1     11.2      11.2     11.3     11.4
Cash Flow Generated                  15.1     16.3      16.8     17.4     17.8
Increase In:
Capital & Reserves                 8.0      -        -         -        -
Deposits                          29.7     47.0     49.0      58.0     59.0
Special Funds                     22.3     15.3     14.5      14.5     14.5
Other Liabilities                (11.0)     2.5      7.9      12.8      7.9
Total Sources                          64.1     81.1     88.2    102.7      99.2
APPLICATIONS
Increase In:
Discounted Bills                  12.3     13.0      2.0       5.0      7.j
Short-Term Loans                  19.9     21.0      3.2      8.0      11.8
Special Funds Loans               29.5      5.5     14.6     14.6      14.6
Subtotal                          61.7     39.5     19.7     27.6      33.7
Increase In:
Liquid Assets                     (0.7)     8.'8     5.1      6.7       8.2
Securities & Other Investments    1.2      12.0     13.6     14.7      16.5
Other Assets                      (0.8)    14.2     43.7     51.5      39.6
Fixed Assets                       2.8      6.5      6.1       2.3      1.1
Total Applications                     64.1     81.1     88.2    102.7      99.2
RATIOS REFLECTING PROJECTED
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Debt-to-Equity (Leverage)              18.7     19.1     19.4      19.8     20.0
Risk Assets to Core Deposits            1.17     1.14     1.08      1.02     0.98
Change in Normal Risk Assets 2         12.9      7.3      3.4       4.6      5.4
Provisions as 2 of Total
Risk Assets A'                        4.42     5.25     5.93      6.48     7.01
a/   Defined as loans outstanding plus guarantees and acceptances (off balance
sheet).



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sub-Sectoral Iavestment Strategies in Mriculture 1987-91
1.       Government investment strategies in Agriculture under its Medium-term
Adjustment Program, and Seventh Plan (1987-91) has been taken into account by
BNT to establish its medium-term development plan and indicative lending
program. The main features of these strategies are as follows:
(a) in grain storage, focus on rehabilitation to increase capacity and
improve the domestic collection network, and on modernization,
including bulk handling, to improve cost effectiveness;
(b) in livestock, concentrate on the development of local forage
resources to substitute for imported concentrates by developing
forage reserves throughout the country, focussing extension efforts
on the integration of livestock with cereal production, promoting
systematic use of crop by-products such as feed (straw, bran and
by-products of the olive oil industry); strengthen the genetic
improvement program through greater reliance on cross-breeding versus
imports of purebred stock; encourage wider participation of private
individuals and c3operatives in providing artificial insemination
services; and encourage the privatization of veterinary services;
Cc) in research, emphasize better coordination of expenditures on
research and focus research on priority import substitution or export
products such as cereals, livestock products, dates, citrus and
off-season vegetables; in extension, without substantially increasing
the present level of total expenditures, reorganization of multiple
commodity-specific, extension programs would permit increased
efficier.cy in use of operating funds, while first ensuring adequate
staffing and funding for the transportation, operation and
maintenance of existing centers; new centers would be built in
rainfed areas, with housing close to field areas;
(d) in forestry, increase the financial resources available for
development to arrest the los'i of forest cover in order to better
mobilize the sub-sector's productive poteutial and reduce imports;
priority needs to be given to establishment of nurseries, to improved
means of guarding and protecting the natural regeneration areas, to
mechanized exploitation and reforestation and improved inventories
and studies;
(e) in fruit trees, encourage maintenance of existing plantations; in the
center of the country, promote the establishment of pasture within
the framework of a balanced system of livestock and fruit trees; and
favor the development of export crops such as citrus in the north,
pistachios and almonds in the center and date palms in the south;



- 83 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 2
(f)  in fisheries, optimize utilization of existing infrastructure, while
holding back additional expenditure on ports, fish processing
facilities and the coastal motorized fleet; encourage the development
of strategically located inland cold storage and ice plants to
develop and exploit domestic markets for under-exploited bluefish;
and
(g) in irrigations finish downstream investments under existing projects
in order to rapidly increase the availability of water at farm level;
promote rehabilitation and maintenance of existing irrigation
infrastructure; and encourage investments designed to increase water
use efficiency.
2.       Greater reliance on private investment as opposed to direct public
investment is also a key element of the Government Radium-term Adjustment
Program, and most private investments in agriculture are associated with
lending by BNT. Agricultural credit wi.l therefore continue to be important,
and the banking system will be a primary tool to promote greater private
sector participation in agricultural development.



-84 -                              ANNEX 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNSA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Auieultural Production Cooperatives (ICPAs)
and Service Cooperatives (CSAs)
1. UCPAS.
There were 192 UCPAs, in July 1986, covering about 190,000 ha
(4,500 ha irrigated) of which 93% are located in the Northern regions
of Tunisia. Agricultural credit granted to UCPAs by BNT amounted to
D 15 million as of June 30, 1986, and collections stood at about 902
demonstrating the careful screening of loan applications for this
category of clients. The UCPAs were reorganized by law No. 84-28 of
May 12, 1984 and decree No. 85-256 of February 5, 1985 to allow its
members, who are small farmers, to cultivate the rich State lands.
These UCPAs' individual farmers grow cereals (702 of available
cropping area), fruit trees (192) and vegetables (1S). The other 102
are forest grazing land. Regarding financial condition, 90b of the
existing UCPAs are generating profits.  Their balance sheets are
audited annually. Investment lending to UCPAs is subject to a
satisfactory financial and techno-economic appraisal carried out by
BNT. Additional details are in working document No. 15.
2. CSAs
The CSAs (about 150), most of them located in the North, are
associations of small- and medium-scale farmers whose services
include treatment of seed, distribution of seed and fertilizer, and
post-harvest cereal storage, marketing and processing of cereals,
vegetables and other crops.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Policy Reforms
Guidelines for [uplementation
1.       The following gives some guidelines for the implementing of the
policy reforms that will be carried out by Government and BNT in conjunction
with the Project (paras. 6.03 to 6.11 of the main report).
2.       Efficient Use of Financial Resources and Better Uniformity of Terms,
Conditions and Lending Procedures. Multiple credit programs will be merged
into a single standardized credit system. Instead of having lower interest
rates, more lenient ppraisal and recovery standards for some special
resources and agricultural projects, all funds will be lent in the same
manner, using a simplified interest rate structure and the same appraisal and
approval criteria. Credit appraisal and approval should be as decentralized
as possible. The resulting agricultural credit system would (a) speed up
credit processing; (b) minimize paperwork; (c) reduce the complexity and cost
of agricultural credit delivery; (d) disburse loans to farmers in the shortest
possible period after their application for credit; (e) recycle funds better
through recovery and relending; and (f) give farmers an incentive to identify
and evaluate the risks and returns on their proposed investments. Current
FOSDA procedures in which Ministry of Agriculture staff participate in credit
appraisal and approvals, and Farmers Union (UNA) staff in credit approvals,
should end. The banking sector will be responsible for this. Appraisal
procedures need be not tougher than are those used presently by BNT, which
include that defaulters will not be granted credit. Lending norms (amount-
lent for each investment type or farm size) should be phased out. In the
place of these restrictive and arbitrary norms, BNT loan officers at branch
level should take more responsibility for lending decisions. Decisions should
be based more on the past and expected performance of the borrower. As this
improved bank credit develops, farmers access to, or distribution of, credit
will increase.
At BNT's level, streamling procedures should also mean:
(a) standardizing credit application forms;
(b) decentralizing the analysis of credit applications at branch level
while informing BNT headquarters simultaneously through improved
computerized management information systems (MIS) (para. 5.09);
(c) giving a better uniformity to the guarantees required from borrowers
whatever the source of funds used for subloans;
(d) delegating at branch level the decision to grant seasonal loans to
farmers with good repayment record, including disbursement; BNT
headquarters and Regional Offices will assume the necessary internal
control;



- 86 -
ANEX 8
Page 2 of 4
(e) adopting a subloan processing system, that is custom-tailored to the
agricultural sector need in terms of subloan management, accounting,
statistics, control, and financial information required by third
parties;
(f)  designing and setting up a system of monitorable performance
indicators ior the BNT Credit Department in Tunis and regional
managers; the system would indicate on a monthly basis, the amount of
credit granted, credit disbursed, number of applications being
processed, amount and pace of recoveries per agricultural season and
by type of subloons, rescheduled loans, arrears with aging, recovery
rates, and resources available or overdrawn by source of funds; and
(g) writing and distributing the manual of procedures, defining in a very
practical way for the beneficiaries and for BNT agricultural credit
staff at Headquarters and branch level, the various stages of subloan
yrocessing: loan application, appraisal, decision, delivery,
utilization, and repayment.
3.       Phasing-out of Subsidies under the FOSDA Program.  Under the ASAL,
the Government already agreed to the reduction and better targetting of
budgetary allocations to the credit part of FOSDA (Annex 3), in order to
achieve the following principal objectives:
(a) tranferring most FOSDA beneficiaries from subsidized credit programs
to a normal bank credit program managed as defined in para. 2 above,
i.e., according to bank-type financial considerations;
(b) improving the delivery and impact of medium-term loans to farmers
through a more careful review of their investment proposals, improved
loan processing and appropriate monitoring;
(c) alleviating FOSDA's continued drain on Government budget resources;
and
(d) rationalizing the agricultural credit system through a more efficient
use of available credit while better targetting the Government
financial assistance to poor farmers. Further action under the
Project to reduce budgetary allocations to the FOSDA subsidized
credit programs is formulated para. 6.04. Project funds will
contribute to fill the resource gap in agricultural credit financing
by providing new resources for institutional credit to private
farmers and investors.
4.       Measures to Increase Loan Collections.  Specific measures to increase
collections under the Project will include the following:
(a)  Political commitment is essential if any meaningful impro'iement in
loan recovery is to be made. The seriousness of the situation
requires continuous political initiatives at the highest level of
Government, with clear instructions at Governorate levels, so that
BNT can effectively carry out advertising campaigns emphasizing
credit discipline, as the one it carried out with some success in
1985;



- 87 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
(b) Application of the "Privilege d'Etat" (para. 3.14 b)
(c) Deducting loan repayments from crop payments (para. 3.14 b);
(d) Denying further credit to borrowers in arrears is implemented since
1984. This had a positive impact on loan repayment performance in
1985. Across-the-board denial of further credit to defaulters,
however, is not necessarily the best solution. It would work against
improving the quality of loans to certain borrowers having a sound
operation which is in temporary difficulty. Therefore, rescheduling,
or some discretion by BNT can be justified in some cases;
(e) Penal charges on loan accounts in arrears could be useful in
encouraging prompt repayment once it is clear to all concerned that
lenders are serious about taking steps to improve collections. Penal
charges can be meaningful to provide real disincentives to willful
default;
(f) Realisation of security is absolutely essential. So long as it is
public knowledge that BWT will be unable to dispossess a farmer of
his land, take back a tractor financed on credit or seize livestock
used as security for a loan, urging farmers to repay on a more timely
basis will not be taken seriously; and
(g) Special incentives to personnel of BUT to collect loan arrears on
current managed funds (FOSDA) should also be considered.
5.       Government Assistance to Low-Income Farmers.  While Government has
agreed to continue reducing subsidies on agricultural credit and to transfer
the credit functions of FOSDA to the banking sector, there may be situations
when the Government would need to continue to extend financial assistance to
less privileged, low-income farmers, who currently do not have adequate access
to institutional credit. Bearing this in mind, the Government should:
(a) redefine the eligibility of small-scale farmers to institutional
credit by according sufficient weight to their revenues and ability
to repay subloans, with a view to reaching a larger number of
farmers, and providing special Government financial assistance to
low-income farmers (those at the survival level that do not qualify
under normal bank credit criteria);
(b) budget and account for its proposed financial assistance (whatever
the source of aid) explicitly, and extend it only to beneficiaries
identified on the basis of well-defined poverty norms and equity
considerations; and, as a consequence of (a) and (b) above,
(c) provide guidelines to identify target groups and define ways of
assisting such groups directly by means other than credit and
interest subsidies.



- 88 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
6.       Rural Resource Mobilization.  Mobilization of rural savings for
recycling into rural credit through the financial system requires incentives,
and services which are convenient to rural people.  The Government is
encouraging domestic savings and Tunisia is reasonably well covered by BNT
branches and other institutions. The location of rural financial services is
essential to attract clients in the countryside. Hence, continued
consideration should be given to the establishment of mobile banks and of
small agencies in rural towns which would be open a few days a week or
possibly only on important market or trading days. BNT, however, has trouble
attracting savings as it is unable to recover many loans it has made: a
farmer will be careful not to entrmst money to a bank from which he has
obtained a loan that he has not paid back. In prospecting for depositsg BNT
will have to overcome this barrier in particular. Thwa difficulty might be
overcome by offering savings schemes under which farmers become eligible for
future agricultural loans. As farmers generally are unaware of what financial
services are available, they tend to hoard their money or to invest it in
sectors other than agriculture (e.g., in property). Farmers do save money,
but these savings need to be mobilized and promoted to benefit future
agricultural development. Thus savings schemes linked to eligibility for
future loans could be of interest to farmers in the form of a "farm savings
passbook". The amounts saved should be entered in the passbook and should
earn interest at an appreciable rate value-linked to appropriate interest
rates for agricultural loans. After a certain contractual savings period (2-3
years minimum) the interest earned should qualify the saver to a loan based on
the amount of interest. The Government could also grant tax relief for such
passbook savings. Checking deposits should also be encouragedt and deposits
easily withdrawn. Savings rates are in Table 5.
7.       Adiustment on Interest Rates and Spreads.  The Government's objective
should be to bring agricultural interest rates in line with market rates over
five years, and to let the banks determine themselves the most appropriate
spread on their subloans (para. 6.03 of the main report).
8.       Risk Sharing and Government Guarantees.  Any improvements in
recoveries in the future imply to (a) transfer part of the agricultural risk
to the banking sector in exchange for appropriate remuneration for the banks;
(b) limit Government role to assuming its share of the risk, particularly with
regard to the PNG; and (c) speed up mobilization of the FNG guarantee whenever
this is justified. Risk-sharing also means for BNT to maintain an appropriate
policy for bad agricultural debts (para. 6.05). Under the Project, BNT will
take 100% risks on its agricultural subloans. However, for subloans made to
small operators, the FNG will cover part of the risks.



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOTTRTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Lendiog Terms and Conditions
1.       Conditions to BNT.  The Bank will lend project funds directly to
BNT. However, the Government will (a) provides its guarantee to the Bank, and
(b) reimburse annually BNT for any negative difference between interest
charged to subborrowers and interest and fees paid by BNT to the Bank.
2.       Purpose of BNT Subloans.  Only subprojects in agriculture,
agro-industry, and rural enterprises with clear potential for increased
production or improved efficiency in marketing and processing of agricultural
commodities will be eligible for project financing.
3.       Subloan Amount.  Subloan size should generally not exceed D 300,000
(US$350,000). However, this limit may be increased for specific investments,
in particular in the agro-industrial subsector, with prior approval of the
Bank.
4.       Subborrower's contribution.  In principle, subborrower's contribution
to the investment cost of a subproject would be as follows:
at least 10% for small and medium farmers, cooperatives and small
fishermen;
at least 30% for large farmers/fishermen, and agro-industries.
5.       Subloan Terms.  The terms for medium- and long-term subloans would be
determined on the basis of the subproject's cash flow and related to the
subborrower's overall repayment capacity. Repayment of most subloans will be
in 5 to 10 years but will not exceed 15 years, or the economic life of the
sub-project, whichever is lower. A grace period of 1 to 3 years may be
granted for repayment based or. the sub-project's cash flow, type of investment
(e.g. orchard) and the overall status of the subborrower. Short-term credit
will not be eligible under project funds but made available by BNT .hrough its
own or other available resources.
6.       Interest on subloans and spreads.  Interest rate ceilings that BNT
may charge on agricultural loans will be revised annually by Government in
consultation with the Bank in 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991, and BNT will be free
to charge market-level interest rates as of end 1991, thereby allowing it to
cover cost of funds, operating costs as well as a reasonable portion of
lending risk.



- 90 -                               ANNEX 9
Page 2
7.       Risk of default on subloans.  BNT will assume 100% of the risk of
default on subloans. However, the National Guarantee Fund (FNG) will cover up
to 70% of the principal of unpaid subloans to small- and medium-farmers, to
cooperatives and to small fishermen.
8.       Collateral.  Subloans will be secured by collateral or other
guarantees consistent with current banking practices in Tunisia. However, BNT
will take into account the specific conditions prevailing in rural areas, in
particular the absence of clear title on land held by potential subborrowers.
9.       Subloan Appraisal and Approval.  Subloan appraisal and approval will
be the responsibility of BNT, which can consult CRDAs staff in the field for
technical advice on appraisal.
10.      Disbursement and Supervision of Subloans.  Disbursement and
supervision of subloans will also be the responsibility of BNT, which will
decentralize these fonctions at branch level each time this is feasible
regarding risk involved, and quality and experience of BNT's field staff. For
small-farmer loans, a separate feasibility study may not be completed for each
sub-project. BNT will ensure subborrowers use project funds for approved
purposes only. Monitoring will take place through quarterly or semi-annual
visits to subprojects by BNT's field staff as per internal BNT guidelines.
BNT's headquarter staff will also perform selective visits to problem
operations for assessment of their problems and solutions.
11.      Manual of Procedures.  BNT's manual of procedures to be used by its
agricultural credit staff will be regularly upgraded to reflect up-to-date
operating guidelines on lending terms and conditions.
12.      Reporting.  BNT will provide to the Bank (a) within one month of the
end of each quarter, short quarterly statements on commitments and
disbursements on subloans; (b) quarterly statements comparing subloan
maturities and actual collections, both for the period and on an aggregate
basis since the inception of the Project; (c) summary quarterly statements on
recoveries for all BNT's agricultural credit operations; (d) semi-annual
progress reports to which the corresponding statements noted in (a) (b) and
(c) above will be attached; and (e) an annual evaluation report, within three
months of the end of each calendar year.



-91-                                 ANNEX 10
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
'UNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Agricultural Credit Delivery Systems in Tunisia,
Evaluation and Perspectives
2.   Fourth Agricultural Credit Project - Bloic Preparation Report
3.   BNT Financial Position and Performance
4.   Financial Viability of BNT Agricultural Credit Operations
S.   BNT Organization, MIS and EDP
6.   Central Bank Refinancing Facilities for asgriculture
7.   FOSDA Review and Reorganization
8.   National Guarantee Fund
9.   Project-Related Training
10. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
11. Financial and Economic Analysis (of Selected Sub-Projects)
12. Lending Terms, Conditions, and Procedures
13. Analysis of Subloan Arrearages and Recovery System-
14. Future Participation of Commercial Banks in Agricultural Credit
15. Production Cooperatives
16. Rural Savings
17. The Agricultural Investment Code (law 82/67 of August 6, 1982)
18. BNT Completion Report on the Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Ln. 1885-TUN)
I  ~          



STAFF AEPRASAL RE
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTUL CREDIT P ECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCIIEOLE
Major Project                          Project Year                  3I4 __t__             |         2
'Activities                            Calendar Year            Is-                    8        1938            1             -       -             11         _
1.  PolIcy Reforu6                                                1s
Revise interest rates                           u                         n n   1            *          3                   an _ 
Reduce FOSoA budgetary atlocations                                       Ion I            s        2                  21
Mtaintain appropriate level of prevision           -dm                                                                                  Ait
for bad agricultural debt at _NT
Use FNG mainly for Agricultural Sector
Redefine farmers  eligibility to credit   |        . _  .n
Write off old arrears and reschedule debt
Offer farmers bank saving schemes                                                                                                       I
Regroup BHT credit programs,                                                                |     
including FOSDA, under a single BHT Fund                -s                                                                                          - -n
Harmoni2e subloans terms, conditions, and                 -t               -           w                            La
Procedures
Take measures to increase collections                                                                                     -   - _- 
Expand B*T's network                             _ _                              br= _
Prepare manual of procedures             !                        |e I 
Supervise subprojects                                 Field                 field,               Field                 Field                 Field
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIm    - _- - A -                                     ,    -          -            -  - 1- --ra  
l                                          ~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~SPN  | SPN          SP"             SPN                   SPIO
3.  Institut.ignal Development
Modernize BNT's MIS and EDP Systems               Oesi i       E            Iuip  Eupllo_-uD
- branches    H eadquarter- -            R        s wis a      e
Set up interministerial Agricultural Credit                Dtcis                                              oni
Policy Coordirnting Committee                              I    '                          I                     i
I Analyze the financial viability                                                                                                                 J Q&        1A    |V11ak |    4r      {l|
of Agricultural Credit operationsl                                                                                                            or        s
Training  Prepare   ,           Prepare   1Prepare                         Prepare
i Training                                                          btamsmop-Imp'emen                           M54t- T             ,   " 
Program              Program               Program               Prograta
Negotiations



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH AGRICULTIIRAL CREDIT PROJECT
FLOW OF PROJECT FUNDS
W 8 Loan   4Tunsian
IG6vernment
,       .                 t                                  Category    Beneficiaries
Revolving Fund                             I
BC -                                     i--i     '                             A       Small/Medium Farmers
_* _1 _  _  _  _  _ _  \.FINANCING                                                      B        Larger Farmers
( fiG)              \                   I         Subloans           Equity   C        Cooperatives
D       Agro-industries
e£ t    E  Fishermen
F       .NT Institutional Development and
|o:nResources |                                               Training
(2)
|[REPAYMENT  |                  [          FMG     Small/Mediwm Farmers
l   0  Guarantee   1Cooperatives
I                               *.
from       ___   -.   -                  .F  -
Beneficiaries                     i
.                  4
Lecend                                                                                   Government
Leo        Loans                                                                         Guarantee
rp   Loans                                                                                                                             o
-lip  Deposits
.....  .   y  -P   G u a r a n t e e s



STAFf APPRAISAL REPORT
TUIMXSXA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREI1T POJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
I Council of Ministers
Prime Ministerts              Steering               1.  Policy decision level
office                   Coiite
Consultative Role---       CN
Agricultural Credit Policy Coordinating            2.  Policy formulation level
99 } BCT ] ~Finance Plannn= A-ricgulture Pro duction 
BNT                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~3.  Control level
|Board of Directors |      E3 Cnto   ee
§  |                  ,           ~~~~~~~~Promotion Role
|Planning                        Cot                                                  . LAPIA  4    Implementation  a
S tudies     |: -Recoveries i                                                             o   evlo
r   Credit                                                                                    5.lo3aioistration]  s   Execution level
- Agriculture         - Deposits             - EDP/Computer Services
- Industry            - Promotion of         - Personnel/Training               (;overnors
- Commerce              Bank Services        - Finance/Accounting
- Technical and       - Development          - Treasury                         CRD)A
Legal Support                              - BWnking Services                               ... -6.  Support level
- Portfolio                                  - General Services                OMV
- Overseas            - Regiona  Offices
IrNA
Field execution level              BNT Branches                                   armers        Cooperatives ---         7.  Bene-
Fisbermen   Agro-industries              ficiaries  w



~~~~Ras Jebel
Sejnene            ourguiba             A                           El Haouaria                  37  j
a                          Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
10                                              a            Bent          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kehibia
<JmmanLil   00           Menzel Temime
2                    .-/                /   H w                          r               ra   :390&+o3BeKOKb a  l  Gr 
JENDOUBA                                                *~~~~~~~~~~~Beni Khar
4v        GhardaoTue           Teboursouk                                                             UL
<t             f, /  Gh~~~~Gar  mraou                                  El FlK /ib\°-_ aGh OUNs           Hammamet
10           EL Kr,<                />>\j
t                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Si/                                    SILIANA                   |Ndhour 0,Al-rnnid a
1*Youissef                   s/)<3*
iK \ Hammam-Sousse
35                                roJTebernaoaa  o    ro       thar                                     ebir      SOUSSE
i (   /    __ aOueslatia /aMONASTIR
( Kalaat                                                                                             oi  KsAIROU eHbeliab
UJi                                  a <Ka Kasba            Haffouz                             _19OMAr c    Moknine
T< e.bsss   (jha ab?             MO                        y/\                                                  MAHDIA
//  V                       ~~~~~~~~~Hajeb  ,        Bou Hajla                             MO, |Ksour-Essaf
t (, t iawr Allall ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Corhane,  Souarss :
'   \~~~~~~~~~\   /                                           0 ~~~~~~~~~~~Chebba
-35°                                            / //'                                  IIBU      Z                                         Jebeniana                        35_~
<t           (J        S~~~~~         ~~riana    /ORge                                   hkr>   



r  S -k  .  -         \                           El Mana Mddh ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 25   so   75 
KILOMETERS
j      Echebka    /lMtoi v                      _/9   khira
34* j                                                                                      At\44
~~34-   !       TOZEZ                  Eq                                               El Hatmma         GABFS                        HEsoukue
Ajim, )
k.                                                     * GBELLI                                                         Jo
0D"Matmata                    /
El Faouar                                                          N-
B6n!
Khedche|
33)                       Guerdene
330                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    ~~Ghoumrassen i  (   330-
-331~~~~~~~TNSI                                                                                                                                                      3
T U N I S I A                                                                  TAOUN(
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                    I                                             j
1E!3   BNT Agencies
A     BNT Agencies, non-agricultural                                       /
Main Roads
Secondary Roads                                                                                   1°
Railroads                                                                                  -
Rivers
Ports                                                                     Remada
Salt Lakes                                                                               -        Ar-ea !TUIkJISIA 
_  *  {International Airports
0     Cities and Towns
j_f-0  Governorate Capitals
® _  @ National Capital                                                                          A L G E R I A         L I18 Y A      j
32"
Cavernorate Boundaries
3 t __00'VB Xg*_                     -e-International Boundaries
#                                                                                                        u" 8°  90  10-                              -.,,NIGER -     CHAD



