Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2865 TUN
               (Fourth Agricultural Credit Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 22, 1987
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 22,  1987,  between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor  hereby  declares its commitment to
the execution of the program  (the Program) referred to in Recital
(A) of the Preamble to the  loan agreement (the Loan Agreement) of
even date herewith  between  the  Bank  and  the  National Bank of
Tunisia (the Borrower);
     (B)  the Guarantor and  the  Borrower,  having been satisfied
as to the feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (C)  by the Loan Agreement, the  Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a  loan  in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000),  on  the  terms  and conditions set
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan  and  to  undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's support
Page  2
of the Program and entering into  the Loan Agreement with the Bor-
rower,  has  agreed  so  to  guarantee  such  obligations  of  the
Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble  and  Section  1.02  of   the  Loan  Agreement  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there  is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available  to  the  Borrower  will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures  required  for the carrying out of
the Project,  to  make  arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or  cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01.  The  Guarantor  shall  make available, without
charge to the Borrower: (a)  through its Ministries of Agriculture
and  of  Agricultural  Production  and  Agroprocessing,  all  such
support  as  the  Borrower   may   request  for  the  purposes  of
facilitating  the  proper  planning,  appraisal  and  execution of
Investment Projects; and (b) through  its Ministry of Planning and
Finance, all such  national,  regional  and  local  support as the
Borrower  may  request  for   the   purposes  of  stimulating  and
increasing collections of Sub-loans.
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall:
     (a) cause its  National  Guarantee  Fund to underwrite credit
risk on Sub-loans made by the Borrower to small operators;
     (b)  continue to pay to the  Borrower, by December 31 of each
year, amounts equal to:  (i)  the  difference between the interest
and other charges paid by the Borrower to the Bank on the proceeds
of the Loan utilized by  the  Borrower in the making of Sub-loans,
and the interest received by  the  Borrower on such Sub-loans; and
(ii) the exchange rate losses incurred by the Borrower on the Loan
between the moment  of  withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account and of
repayment of, and payment  of  interest  and other charges on, the
Loan to the Bank; and
Page  3
     (c)  each year, in  accordance  with  the  Program: (i) cause
agricultural interest rates  to  be  adjusted in consultation with
the Bank, so that not later than 1991, agricultural interest rates
shall equal at least market rates; and (ii) continue to reduce its
budgetary allocations to agricultural credit financing.
     Section 3.03. In order  to facilitate the proper coordination
of the execution of  the  Program,  the  Guarantor shall not later
than  December  31,  1987  establish  and  thereafter  maintain an
Agricultural Credit Coordinating  Committee  with  a membership of
officials involved in agricultural  credit,  and with a mandate to
make recommendations to the  competent  authorities and to monitor
the application  of  agricultural  credit  reforms, especially the
harmonization of terms  and  conditions  of  credit, the financial
viability  of   credit   operations,   recovery   discipline,  and
assistance to farmers who are not eligible for credit.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor  and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
     (b)  Prior to  each  such  exchange  of  views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank for  its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  and Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministere du Plan et des Finances
          Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
                                            Telex:
                                                MIPLAN 15117 TUN
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Page  4
                     By /s/ Hedi Gharbi
                                       Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
