Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2865 TUN
               (Fourth Agricultural Credit Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     NATIONAL BANK OF TUNISIA
                        Dated July 22, 1987
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  22,  1987,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received  a letter dated May 8, 1987
from the Republic of Tunisia  (the Guarantor) describing a program
of objectives, policies and actions designed to improve the system
of  agricultural  credit  within  the  Guarantor's  territory (the
Program);
     (B)  the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project;
     (C)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-borrower for
an Investment Project;
     (b)  "Sub-borrower"  means  a   farmer,   a  cooperative,  an
agricultural or agro-industrial enterprise or a fisherman to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (c)  "Investment Project" means  a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by  a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-loan;
     (d)  "BNT Statutes" means  the  statutes  of  the Borrower of
1959, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (e)  "BNT Statement of Policy" means the statement of medium-
term development policy and  objectives  approved by the President
Directeur General of the Borrower on March 24, 1987, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Computer Managing Committee" means  the Committee to be
established and maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Schedule 4,
Part B (b) (i) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Special Account" means the  account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "small and  medium  farmer"  means  a farmer cultivating
land that provides  an  annual  pre-investment  net return to such
farmer and his or her  family  of  D  2,500 or less, based on 1987
agricultural prices;
     (i)  "large farmer"  means  a  farmer  cultivating  land that
provides an annual pre-investment  net  return  to such farmer and
his or her family  of  over  D  2,500,  based on 1987 agricultural
prices;
     (j)  "D" or "dinar" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (k)  "small fisherman" means a  fisherman owning no more than
two boats or a  small  trawler  or  a  sardine boat or two fishing
boats equipped with floodlights ("lamparos");
     (l)  "large fisherman" means any fisherman other than a small
fisherman;
     (m)  "Agricultural Credit  Coordinating  Committee" means the
Committee to be established  and  maintained by the Guarantor pur-
suant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement;
     (n)  "National Guarantee Fund"  means  the  Fonds National de
Garantie, established by Law  81-100  of  December 31, 1981 of the
Borrower, made operational by Decree 84-53 of January 27, 1984;
Page  3
     (o)  "market  rate"  means  an  agricultural  interest  rate,
covering average cost  of  funds,  reasonable  operating costs and
reasonable lending risk of the Borrower;
     (p)  "agricultural interest  rate"  means  the  interest rate
charged by the Borrower on a loan to the agricultural sector; and
     (q)  "small operators" means small  and medium farmers, small
fishermen and cooperatives.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be  paid)  by  the Borrower on account of with-
drawals made  by  a  Sub-borrower  under  a  Sub-loan  to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and  services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which  the  withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested; and  (ii)  for  expenditures  made  (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  Part  B  of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of Tunisia  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as  practicable  after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project and con-
duct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  accordance  with  appropriate  technical, administrative,
banking and  financial  standards  and  practices,  with qualified
management and personnel, and in  accordance with the Statutes and
the Statement of Policy,  and  shall  provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as  the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that Sub-loans will
be made to Sub-borrowers for  Investment  Projects on the basis of
the criteria, procedures  and  terms  and  conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Investment Project  in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement;  and  (iii)  achieve the purposes of
the Project.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services  required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project  (including  its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived  from  it)  and  to  reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have the records  referred  to  in  Section 4.01 of
               this Agreement, its  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  and the records
               and  accounts  for  the  Special  Account  for each
               fiscal year audited in accordance with sound audit-
               ing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of said finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited, and
               (B) the report of  such  audit by said auditors, of
Page  5
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
      (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the said records, accounts and financial state-
               ments and the audit thereof  as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain, in accordance  with  Section 4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
       (ii)    retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, can be relied  upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  furnish to the Bank, no later  than July 31 of each year
the Project is executed, income  statements and an analysis of its
agricultural credit operations for  the preceding calendar year in
a format acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  take such  steps  satisfactory  to  the Bank, including,
without limitation, making requests  for  the amounts provided for
in Section 3.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement, as shall be neces-
sary to protect itself fully against  the risk of loss on interest
rate differential and exchange risk,  referred to in said Section;
and
     (c)  maintain provisions  necessary  to  protect itself fully
against risk of default  under its agricultural credit operations,
as determined in the analysis referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The BNT Statutes or  the  BNT  Statement of Policy shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower or its  ability to carry out the Project
or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  An event shall have occurred which shall make it improb-
able that the  Program,  or  a  significant  part thereof, will be
carried out.
Page  6
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
the event specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.O1 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General Conditions,
namely, that the  Borrower  shall  have increased the agricultural
interest rate to at  least  7.00%  on  short-term  loans and to at
least 7.50% on medium-term loans.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The President Directeur General of the Borrower
is designated as representative  of  the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Banque Nationale de Tunisie
          19 avenue de Paris
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              BANATU                            13.220
              TUNIS
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                        NATIONAL BANK OF TUNISIA
Page  7
                        By /s/ Hedi Gharbi
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans, under
     Part A of the
     Project to:
     (a) small and medium       8,000,000  )
         farmers                           )
                                           )
     (b) large farmers          8,000,000  )
                                           )
     (c) cooperatives           3,500,000  )    75% of amounts
                                           )    paid by the
     (d) agricultural and       4,500,000  )    Borrower under
         agro-industrial                   )    such Sub-loans
         enterprises                       )
                                           )
     (e) fishermen              3,500,000  )
(2)  Goods, consultants'        2,500,000       100% of foreign
     services and train-                        expenditures and
     ing under Part B of                        70% of local ex-
     the Project                                penditures
                               __________
           TOTAL               30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  unless  the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the provisions  set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of $3,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after November 30, 1986.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist in financing
such productive facilities and resources in the Guarantor's terri-
tory as will contribute to the growth of agricultural productivity
and rural income in said territory; (b) improve the system, condi-
tions and financial viability  of  agricultural credit within said
territory and encourage rural savings; and (c) further develop the
management and operations of the Borrower.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The financing of specific  development projects through loans
to private farmers,  cooperatives, agricultural enterprises, agro-
industrial  enterprises  and  fishermen  within  the  agricultural
sector.
Part B:
     Strengthening and  improvement  of  the Borrower's management
information and data  processing  systems, including the provision
of staff training, technical assistance and computer software, the
provision, utilization  and  initial  maintenance  of computer and
office equipment, and encouragement of rural savings.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1992
     through   March 15, 2004                      1,155,000
On September 15, 2004                              1,125,000
