Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7848-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eqauavlent
Currency Unit                   Burundi Franc (F6u)
USS 1                          FBu 156
!ejjhte and Measures
1 kilometer (km)            =    e.62 mile
1  quare kilometer (k*2)   a    e.a86 sq.ile
Oloeary of Abbreovtiotns and Acronym
AfDB         Aft Scan Development Baitk
AGCD         Adm. nistration GAn6rale de la Coop6ration au D6veloppoment (Belgian Aid Agency)
BEI          Budget Extreordinaire et d'Inveetistsment (Investment Budget)
sO           Budget Ordinaire (Recurrent BudGet)
BRB          Banque de la R&publique du Burundi (Central Bank)
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Coop6ratton Economique (French Aid Agency)
CGR          Cellule do Gestion Routire (Road Planning Unit)
CIF          Cost Insurance Fret
DAF          Direction Administrative et Financi4re (Department of Administration and Finance)
DOR          Direction G6n6rale des Routes (General Directorate for Roads)
DOT          Direction On6raledesTransports, Postes etT4l6communications (Gerkeral Directorate
for Transport, Posts and Telecommunications)
DSm          Dar-es-Sa leam
DTE          Direction Technique do I'Exploitation (Department of Maintenance)
DTEC         Direction Technique dos Etudes et Contr8l- (Department of Design and Control)
EEC          European Economic Comiimunity
EF           Entreprise publique (public enterprise)
EPI1         Explo;tation du Port do Bujumbura
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (French Aid Fund)
FED          Fondo Europeen do Development (European Development Fund)
GTZ          Aid Agency of the Federal Republic of Germany
14DM         Hlghway D"ign and Maintenance Model
INTRACO      International Transport Company
kfW          Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany Aid Fund)
LNTP         Laboratoire National dee Travaux Publics (National Laboratory of Public Works)
MAE          Ministhre d  I Agriculture et de I 'Elevag  (Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MTPDU        Minist&r- dos Travaux Publics et du Dlveloppent Urbain (Ministry of Public Works
and Urban Development)
MTPT         Ministbre dos Transports, Postes et T&lIcommunicotions (Ministry of Transport,
Posts and Telecommunications)
NCTA         Northern Corridor Transit Agrement
OTRABU       Office des Transports du Burundi (Freight Transport Company)
OTRACO       Office dos Transports en Commun (Passenger Transport Company)
PEP          Public Expenditure Program
FIU          Project Implemntation Unit
PTA          Pr-fereni.ial Trade Agreement
SAL          Structural Adjustment Lending
SETEtU       Municipal Technical Services
SME          Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
SRD          Soci6ti R6gionale de DHveloppsment (Regional Development Company)
TRC          Tanzania Railways Corporation
VOC          Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd          Vehicle per day
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
Transport Sector Proiect
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Sunmmary
I.     THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting ..... ...................
B.    The Transport Sector ........ .        ..    . .......  2
(i)  Main Policy Issues and Institutional Constraints..   2
(ii)  The Transport System.......    3
C.    The Road Sector.                  .........    7
(i)   The Network.                    .     .     .....    7
(ii)   Road Use. ........                       .     ..   9
(iii)  Organizational Structure, Staffing, Training ....  11
(iv)   Financing and Road User Charg es .             .   12
(v)    Planning.                  . r. .   .....    ...  13
(vi)   Engineering, Construction and Maintenance .......  14
D.    Past Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector ....  15
TTI    THE PROTWVT
Objectives ............. ..................................... 18
A.    Transport Component ...... ................ . ...........  18
B.    Road Component .* .............. ......             ...  19
(a)   Road Rehabilitatioa and Maintenance Program   ...... 20
(b)   Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Coffee Roads  ... 21
(c)   Institutional Strengthening ........ ..............  22
(d)   Feasability Study for an Equipment-Renting Pool ... 25
C.    Cost Estimates ................................ ............  25
D.    Economic Justification of the Project ..     ...............  2:
E.    Project Financing . ..    .......................... .o .....  27
F.    Implementation and Procurement ............ ............. 28
G.    Disbursement ...........................................  30
H.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements ........ 31
I.    Environmental Aspects ....................     o.............  32
J.    Poverty Alleviation Aspects ....................... .   33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Burundi in January/February 1989; members of the missions were J.J. Raoul
(Highway Engineer), E. Bidaux (Research Assistant), B. Bostrom (Sr. Transport
Economist), J.M. Lantran (Sr. Construction Industry Specialist), C. Lyle
(Financial Analyst) and  P. Taborga (Sr. Urban Economist).   C. Tran-Luu
(Consultant - Training Specialist) and J. Bui (Research Assistant) also
contributed to the report. B. Chatelin (Sr. Economist) was lead Advisor for
the appraisal team.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciDients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Paste No.
III.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General                                       ................... oo  34
B.    Area of Influence of the Project, Benefits and
Beneficiaries ........*   ......***.............  34
C.    Economic Analysis of the Project ......................  35
D.    Risks o*oo.***o. o**.o***... ..... .o.... ..o..o.-  36
IV.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................  38
Annexes
I.   Transport Statistics
1.   Distribution of International Traffic by Route
2.   Traffic in the Port of Bujumbura
3.   Traffic of Air Burundi and at the Bujumbura International Airport
4.   Statistical Motor Vehicle Fleet
5.   Fuel Consumption and Prices
6.   Estimated Road Traffic Volumes
II.  Regional Distribution of the Road Network
III. Transport Sector Expenditures
1.   Expenditures in the Highway Subsector
2.   Expenditures in the Transport Sector (Roads excluded)
3.   Transport Sector Debt vs External Public Debt
4.   Public Expenditure Program for the Highway Subsector (1989-1991)
IV.  Revenues from Road User Charges
V.   Rehabilitation of Earth/Gravel Roads - List of Roads
VI.  Periodic Maintenance of Paved Roads - List of Roads
VII. List of Road Equipment Requirements and Acquisition
VIII.TORs for Technical Assistance for Management of Road Operations and
Training in DGR
IX.  TORs for Technical Assistance in DGT
X.   TORs for the Road Planning Unit
XI.  TORs for Technical Assistance to the Control Unit
XII. TOREs for the Feasability Study of an Equipment-Renting Pool
XIII.TORs for studies in DGT
XIV. Economic Analysis
1,  Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
..   Summary Table of the Economic Evaluation of the Road Project
XV.  Project Progress Reporting Requirements
XVI. Statement of Sectoral Policy
XVII.Related Documents and Data Available In Project File
Charts
1.   Organization of MTPDU
2.   Organization of MTPT
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
Mapn
IBRD 21189: Great Lakes Region International Surface Transport Connections
IBRD 21660R Burundi, Transport Sector Project, Road System



- iii -
BURUNDI
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Burundi
Beneficlaries: Ministry of Public Works asid Urban Developmerst (MTPDU) and
Ministry of Transport, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT)
AMunt:s        SDR 32.7 million (US$ 43.2 million)
Termss         Standard IDA Terms
Prolect Objectives:
The project'l objectives are to: (i) reform transport sector
policies to promote greater competition and price liberalization;
(ii) develop planning capabilities within MTPDU and MTPT; (iii)
consolidate, expand and improve maintenance practices, institutions
and funding in the road sector including support for starting up
the participation of the private sector in road maintenance
activities and upgrading a selected road to paved standards; and
(iv) provide support to coffee production en-d marketing through
re-hablitnt4tn ar"d maintenance of acces& roads to the coffee
production areas. These objectives are fully consistent with the
Government's adjustment program implemented with IDA support.
Proiect Description:
The project will cover roads and transport, the responsibility of
which is split between two ministries: MTPDU and MTPT.   At
appraisal, a four-year project (1990-1993) was designed to meet the
country's priorities with pledges confirmed by donors during a
Round Table held in Bujumbura in April 1989. It would have two
components as follows:
(i)  institutional support to the General Directorate for Transport
(DGT) including (a) technical assistance to assist in creating
a transport data base, monitoring international transport,
preparing adequate sector policies and reforming transport
parastatals; (b) training; and (c) subsector-related studies
and a provision to finance priority transport investments to
be identified during the above studies.
(ii) a four-year  road  rehabilitation and maintenance program
including (a) periodic and routine maintenance of paved roads;
(b) limited upgrading,  rehabilitation and maintenance of
unpaved roads of the main network, an increasing portion of
which will be contracted out; (c) rehabilitation and
maintenance of coffee roads; (d) subsector-related studies;
and (e) institutional strengthening through the creation



- iv -
within the General Directorate for Roads (DOR) of a Road
Planning Unit and of a Control Unit for Maintenance Works,
technical assistance and training.
The proposed Transport Sector Project supports the Government's
macroeconomic development strategy and structural adjustment
program and conforms to its Public Investment and Public
Expenditure Programs defined in coordination with IDA. It is also
consistent with and supportive to IDA's following operations: the
Small  Scale  Enterprises/APEX  Project   (Cr.   1889-BU),   the
Agricultural Services Sector Project (Cr. 2024-BU) and the Coffee
Project under preparation.
Benefits:
Improvement in road maintenance and upgrading of selected main
roads would facilitate transport of goods and persons countrywide,
reduce  vehicle  operating  costs  and  the  need  for  costly
rehabilitation in the future. Improvement of coffee roads would
support coffee production and marketing, and contribute to the
increase in foreign exchange earnings and farmers' revenues.
Improving the institutional framework would ensure better planning
and management practices  in the sector.    Improving external
transport conditions through better road access and transport
policies would lower overall transport costs for both imports and
exports.    The  promotion  of  small-and*-medium-scale  domestic
contractors who will mostly carry out labor-based road maintenance
operations would provide employment to the rural poor.
Risks:
Possible risks include the limited capabilities of the private
sector for executing road maintenance works and possible shortage
of local counterpart funds for the road maintenance components.
These risks will be minimized by (i) the project providing for
support to and gradual involvement of the private sector and (ii)
the sectoral PEP review mechanism.
Proiect Cost:
The total cost of the project is estimated at USS 90.8 million
equivalent with foreign costs of about US$ 57.5 million and local
costs of US$ 33.3 million. The detailed cost and financing plan
are in the following table.



- V -
B5RIJNDI
Transport Sector Project
PROJECT COSTS ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Project Cost Estimates 11
Fozreign as
Local Foreign Total X of total
A. TRANSPORT CONPONENT                           0.4   4.5   4.9        92%
I.  Institutional Strengthening            0.4   2.4   2.8        87%
II. Investments                            0.0   2.1   2.1       100%
B. ROAD COMPONENT                              25.5  38.6  64.1         60%
I.  Road Upgrading to Paved Standards    1.9   4.3   6.2          70%
II. Road Rehabilitation                    4.0   3.7   7.7        48%
III.Periodic Maintenance                   4.6   9.3  13.9        67%
IV. Routine Maintenance                    8.4  10.9  19.3        57%
V.  Coffee Roads                           4.4   0.2   4.6          5%
VI. Institutional Stengthening             2.3  10.0  12.3         81%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                               25.9  43.1  69.0         62%
=====  ===;. ===-
Contingencies (32% base costs)
Physical (10% base costs)                    2.6   4.3   6.9         62%
Price                                        4.8  10.1  14.9         68%
GRAND TOTAL                                    33.3  57.5  90.8         63%
Financina Plan
IDA   7.7  35.5  43.2        48%
AfDB   0.8   6.0   6.8         8%
AGCD   2.9   2.1   5.0         6%
GTZ    -    1.8   1.8         2%
FAC    -    1.4   1.4         22
OPEC, Japan, Italy   0.7   6.3   7.0          8%
Government  21.3   4.3  25.6         28%
Total  33.3  57.5  90.8       100%
1/       Costs are net of taxes which are estimated at FBu    473    million
(US$     3.05 million equivalent).



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. G§oraphic and Economic Setting
1.01      Burundi (see Map IBRD 21660) is a small landlocked country on Lake
Tanganyika situated south of the equator in Eastern Africa between Rwanda,
Tanzania and Zaire, about 1,400 km from the Indian Ocean. The country covers
an area of 27,800 square kilometers (of which 25,000 sq.km of land) and the
country's terrain is dominated by a hilly central plateau giving way to
marshy valleys in the north and east and a low-lying plain in the west. The
generally rugged terrain, the scattered settlement patterns as well as the
country's landlocked position have contributed to shape its transport
infrastructure.
1.02      With a population of approximately 5.1 million growing at the high
rate of 3.1! p.a., Burundi is the second most densely populated country in
Africa (204 inhabitants per sq.km of land). Abcut 942 of the population
lives in rural areas as smll farmers who depend mainly on subsistence
agriculture and on one main cash crop, coffee, which provides the major
source of foreign exchange for the country. More than half the population
is concentrated in the Bujumbura-Muramvya-Gitega-Kayanza-Ngozi area which
also produces most of the country's coffee. Gross National Product (GNP) per
capita, estimated at US$ 240 in 1987, is among the world's lowest.
Agriculture is the main economic activity contributing about 60Z to GNP.
Mining and industrial activity is limited (about 132 of GNP).
1.03      After a period of relatively good performance and growth, partly
due to the coffee boom in the mid-1970s and increased foreign aid, Burundi
faced serious econmiic and financial difficulties in the early 1980s. The
deterioration in the terms of trade (452 betweer. 1978 and 1981), mainly due
to the decline in coffee prices and the increase in oil prices and to a lack
of adjustment policies, has led to a worsening of the balance of payments
and large budget deficits. Administrative controls were imposed on imports
and foreign exchange and price controls were enforced, aiming at controlling
the increasirg deficit in the balance of payments. The resulting slowdown
in economic activity highlighted Burundi's major structural constraints: the
extreme dependence on coffee revenues (coffee still accounts for about 80%
of the country's exports), the weak role of the private sector and the leck
of incentives for a sustained growth of agriculture and industry.
1.04      In 1986, the Government undertook a major adjustment ptogram, the
objectives of which are to restore financial equilibria in the short-term and
to initiate medium- and long-term structural change in the economy with more
reliance on market forces and a greater outward orientation.   The new
Government in place since September 1987 has committed itself to pursue and
strengthen the adjustment program under SAL II, which became effective in
November 1988. It will continue to address the structural issues through
ongoing measures aimed at (i) improving macro-economic management; (ii)
stimulating exports; (iii) developing the private sector; (iv) reforming
parastatals; (v) improving public expenditure management; and new measures
aimed at (vi) increasing the efficiency of the financial sector; (vii)
liberalizing the labor market; and (viii) alleviating poverty. Under the
first phase of the adjustment program, the Government implemented a strict
budgetary policy and reduced public expenditure.   After the expansionary



- 2 -
policy of the 1970* and early 1980s, the public investment program was
reduced to make it compatible with the overall macroeconomic and financial
program.  A three-year public expenditure rolling program (PEP) is now being
prepared; it will be the basis for a unified system of budget preparation.
This three-year PEP is expected to lead to more efficient resource allocation
between recurrent and capital expenditures, namely to give priority to
maintenance of infrastructure over new capital expenditures. The transport
sector represents about 202 in the PEP.  Improvement in this part of the
public sector has therefore an important impact.
1.05      The prevailing economic and financial conditions in Burundi have
been taken into consideration in designing the proposed Transport Sector
Program and its financing. The project is seen as an integral past. of the
structural adjustment and economic development process and, therefore, calls
for appropriate policy actions within the transport sector. These actions
will aim at more emphasis on maintenance of infrastructure, more reliance on
the private sector for executing road maintenance works, better planning and
improvement of cost recovery mechanisms as well as more liberalization of
transport operations and enhanced dialogue with the transit countries in
order to make exports more competitive and reduce costs of imports and
internal transport.
B. The Transport Sector
(i)  Main Policy Issues and Institutional Constraints
1.06      The  sectoral  policy  issues  referred  to hereunder  constitute
bottlenecks to improvement of overall efficiency of the transport sector and
its contribution to the adjustment policy and, therefore, need to be
addressed adequately under the proposed project.   First, the country's
economy needs greater flexibility in international transport (para. 1.12 to
1.15) for choice of both modelroute and transport operators to better adapt
to external transport conditions on these routes and thus benefit from
competition between routes and between operators. Secondly, transport
operations need to be liberalized to allow the harmonious development of the
private sector and alleviate the financial burden on the state's budget
caused by subsidies to parastatals (para. 1.29-30). Lastly, there is a need
for more emphasis on maintenance of transport Infrastructure (versus new
capital investments) and especially roads in order to protect the
infrastructure assets from deterioration, keep transport costs as low as
possible and avoid new capital investments with poor economic justification.
1.07      Responsibilities for the transport sector at the central level are
shared between two different ministries: the Ministry of Public Works and
Urban Development (MTPDU) is responsible for management of the main roads and
the Ministry of Transport, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT) for
establishing and enforcing transport regulations, and for monitoring the
transport parastatals. This split of responsibilities would require close
coordination between the two ministries as far as planning is concerned.
However, both ministries do not have the staff needed to carry out



- 3 -
appropriate planning; technical assistance has been provided recently to NTPT
to help develop appropriate planning skills.   The project would further
address the need to strengthen planning functions of these ministries (para.
2.02 and 2.15).
.
(ii) The Transport System
1.08      The transport system in Burundi consists of about 6,300 km of roads
and tracks (of which 4,100 km are under responsibility of the General
Directorate for Roads - DGR), the port of Bujumbura and the international
Bujumbura airport.   There are no railways or navigable rivers.   Laik
Tanganyika is mostly used for international transport to and from the vorts
of Kigoma (Tanzania) and Mpulungu (Zambia). Internal transport is therefore
entirely dependent on the road network. As a landlocked country far from
ocean ports, Burundi relies heavily on its external transport links for its
economic development.
External transport
1.09      Burundi's external trade is mostly with developed countries and to
a lesser extent with its neighbors.   It has grown markedly in volume in
recent years: 11% p.a. for exports and 4% for importo over the 1980-1986
period. However, the external trade volumes are still relatively lows during
the 1985-1988 period, imports averaged about 225,000 tons p.a. while exports
totalled about 50,000 tons p.a. (of which coffee represented 30,000 tons).
The annual external trade growth rate is expected to be in the 5-6% range
p.a. in the coming years and the trade flow will remain imbalanced.
1.10      As a landlocked country, Burundi is dependent on transit through
neighboring countries.  Three main corridors (see Map IBRD 21189) are now
used for external trade:  (i) the Northern Corridor  (all-road route)  to
Nairobi and Mombasa (2,050 km) via Kigali and Kampala; (ii) the Central
Corridor 1/ (lakelrail route) to Dar-es-Salaam (DSM) via Kigoma (1,430 km);
and (iii) the Southern Corridor to Lusaka and Harare via Mpulungu (about 600
km by lake from Bujumbura). The Northern Corridor route now accounts for
about 28% (mainly petroleum products) of total international traffic to
Burundi, the Central Corridor routes 34%, the Southern Corridor route 36% and
air transport 2% while most of the international traffic from Burundi is
routed to DSM through Kigoma (Annex I-1). Owing to the long distances to the
transit ports on the Indian Ocean, transport costs are high even in the best
conditions. These are supplemented by other factors including the conditions
of transport infrastructure, cumbersome transit procedures, the poor
efficiency of transport operators and highly imbalanced import (80% of the
traffic volume)  and export  (20%)  flows.   Overall transport costs are
estimated to add about 30-40% to the cost of imports and exports.
1/   An all-road alternati1ve in the Central Corridor to DSM via Kobero is
also  now  being  increasingly  used  (Annex  I-1).    Another  future
alternative is a roadirail variation of the Central Corridor, by road
to Isaka in Tanzania and then railroad to DSM (para. 1.12).



- 4 -
1.11      in the lete 19708, the Northern Corridor suffered disruptions in
transit from turmoil in Ugan.da.  Sine then, the situation has Improved with
the exception of further disruptions In 1986 due to political troubles in
Uganda.   In most ccuntries through which the Northern Corridor passes
(Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya), investments were made to improve
maintenance and extend infrastructure. Direct transport costs are estimated
to have decreased in the Northern Corridor from US$ 340/ton in 1979 to
US$ 200/ton in 1988.  Indirect costs have also fallen: transit times fell
from 35-45 days to 20-30 days in the Northern Corridor and from several
months to 40-60 days in thr. Central Corridor. In the Central Corridor (Port
of Bujumbura-Kigoma-DSM), the presently chef !est alternative for Burundi,
where unit transport costs are about US$ 100/ton lower than via Mombasa,
further improvements are necessary on the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) 2/
while DSM port has improved significantly over the past few years and is now
being preferred to Mombasa. To improve transport conditions on this route,
the Government has undertaken a rehabilitation project for the port of
Bujumbura (however not a real bottleneck) financed by CCCE (France) and a
shipyard construction project in Bujumbura with funding from AfDB is in an
advanced preparation stage. Further reductions in costs are both possible
and necessary but will require the full and effective implementation of
multicountry agreements to facilitate transit procedures (such as the
Northern Corridor Transit Agreement (NCTA) signed in 1985 but not yet fully
effective).
1.12      Reliability of transport routes is a matter for concern.  One of
the main Government objectives is to increase revenues from coffee exports
through better quality of coffee exported and higher volumes. Therefore,
the reliability of coffee transpor; has become a very important objective
both within Burundi and on export routes.   Security of international
transport has traditionally been an acute issue: alternative options are
needed to provide the Government with rapid solutions when disruptions occur.
Such options include: air transport and the Isaka route (1,630 km), with the
TRC railroad or road transport from DSM co Isaka (where a new rail/road
terminal for Rwan1a has been financed by EEC) and road transport from Isaka
to Burundi. The Government is considering investments in the construction
of two alternative road connections between Burundi and Isaka. The northern
alternative via Kobero has better economic justification than the Cankuzo
one since a substantial portion has already been paved. EEC has agreed to
finance the Kobero alternative and the works will begin in 1990.
Consequently, new investments on the second alte. &t ve (via Cankuze) should
be considered as a much lower priority.
The Great Lakes Corridor Study
1.13      The problems of external transport access to Burundi have a lot in
common with the problems of other landlocked countries, such as Rwanda,
Uganda and the eastern part of Zaire. The Great Lakes Corridor Study, which
was carried out by the Bank in 1988, analyzes the international transport
problems in the Great Lakes area around the lakes Victoria and Tanganyika as
well as in the main transit countries, Kenya and Tanzania, and defines the
2/   EEC is envisaging the funding of block trains for Burundi traffic, to
be operated by TRC.



tssues and policils required to develop a coherent internatior;l transport-
transit strategy for East and Central Africa. After reviewing the existing
and proposed main routes, the study identified the major issueos within the
Northern  and  Central  Corridors  (infrastructure  problems,   transport
facilitation and transit regulation); reviewed how each national policy
affects the efficiency of international transport; reviewed the costs and
revenues for the transit countries resulting from international traffic;
identified factors affecting routing decisions; and described a possible
scenario of traffic flows in 1995 that could result from these factors.
1.14      Burundi is in a relatively favored position in that it has several
practical access routes to both Dar-es-Salaam and Mombasa.   Given the
availability of charter air-freight and the over-capacity of the region's
trucking fleet, it is clear that more transit routes will not solve the
transit  problem.    For  Burundi  this  means  that  over-investment  in
infrastructure, at least within the country, is probably more of a danger
than inadequate infrastructure. Additional road links (other than the more
direct route via Kobero to the new rail/road terminal at Isaka uaing the
paved road from Rwanda) would only be a long-term requirement.
1.15      The main scope for reducing transport cost  is by improving
efficiency of external routes and changing some of the institutional
arrangements. This can be achieved by offering shippers more flexibility for
the choice of route and mode through a reform of the import licence system
of the Central Bank (BRB); the current system gives little lee-way for
changes while goods are in transit, does not consider total cost in case of
urgent requirements and provides a certain level of price protection to the
local more expensive truckers (para. 4.01 (k)). For the Northern Corridor
from Mombasa, Burundi has proportionally more transit documentation costs and
delays than either Rwanda or Uganda, and. therefore, has most to gain by
effective implementation of the NCTA. This is another reason to prefer the
Central Corridor which only goes through Tanzania. The need for a flexible
approach also applies to the exports (high value coffee in particular) for
which the most advantageous route and mode at any given time should be
allowed. Recent trial shipments by road through Tanzania is a step in the
right direction.  The availability of more customs clearance facilities,
other than Bujumbura, would also lead to lower transport costs for imports
and exports.   This also ought to include the handling of 2ontainers,
particularly for exports, from Gitega or Kayanza (para. 4.01 (o)).   In
addition to improvements to physical infrastructures financed by EEC to
improve Burundi's international accesses (para. 1.11-12), the project would
assist Burundi in its dialogue with the transit countries through the
provision of technical assistance aimed at improving local planning skills,
data collection and processing (para. 2.02).
Roads
1.16      The road subsector is presented in subehapter C.
Port and Lake Transport
1.17      The port of Bujumbura is run by a private, partly foreign-owned
company, Exploitation du Port de Bujumbura (EPB). Fixed installations at the
port are state-owned Aile the handling facilities are owned by EPB. At



- 6 -
present, the only remaining expatriate is EPB general manager and EPB is
adequately managed, operating at a profit even though port tariffs have not
changed since 1980. EPB operates under MTPT supervision and utilizes about
402 of the estimated annual port capacity of 450,000 tons.
1.18      After two years of sustained growth in 1984 and 1985,  the traffic
in the port dropped steeply from its 220,000 tons p.a. level to stabilize now
at the level of 180,000 tons p.a. (Annex I-2). Transport on Lake Tanganyika
between Bujumbura and ports in Tanzania, Zaire and Zambia is handled by
ARNOLAC, a 901 foreign-owned private company. The share of traffic on the
lake is as follows: 561 Tanzania (including international traffic via
Kigoma), 371 Zambia and 7% Zaire. Most of the fleet is old and unsuited to
modern transport; it consists of five tugs (90 hp - 700 hp) and ten barges
with a total capacity of 4,300 tons.  Nevertheless, ARNOLAC is adequately
managed and is operating at a profit. Other vessels are owned by private
operators and the railways of Tanzania and Zaire providing a total lake fleet
of about 30 units. Tariffs of Burundian lake transport are currently
controlled by the Government.
1.19      In the 1984-1985 period, the Government decided to undertake major
investments in the port , which were designed on high growth traffic
forecasts; these new investments now seem overdimensioned considering the
actual traffic. The works in the port financed by CCCE (US$ 13.3 million
equivalent), began in 1988, consisting of (i) repair of tbrt existing fixed
installations (berths); (ii) installation of new container/handling
facilities; and (iii) construction of a new storage area. Following these
heavy investments, the Government now intends to revise the current
concession status of EPB, even before 1997 when the concession agreement is
scheduled to terminate. Also here it is important to retain a policy of
flexibility to respond to the rapid changes of the transport industry. This
is best achieved by continuing to grant the operating concession of the port
to a private operator, while clearly retaining the right of the Government
to intervene under certain circumstances such as by requiring a certain
financial performance. The works on the shipyard project, the other heavy
investment (US$ 7.5 million equivalent), which has been curtailed by the
Government in place since 1987, are scheduled to begin in 1990 and will
ccasist of the construction of a slipway and a fully-equipped workshop. The
Government is in process of awarding a contract for the operations of the
future facilities to a private operator (para. 4.01 (n)).
Civil Aviation
1.20      In view of the small size of the country, air transport primarily
serves Burundi's external transport needs. The international airport near
Bujumbura can handle wide-body aircraft and a new terminal building was
completed in 1984. Another small airfield is located near Kirundo in the
north. Bujumbura airport is equipped for 24-hour operations and provides
service to Europe and the capitals of neighboring African countries. The
airport is served by seven European and African airline companies. In the
period 1985-1987, passenger traffic has been growing at a reasonably high
annual average rate of 9.51, reaching about 49,000 passengers in 1987, while
freight traffic has been decreasing since 1985 at an annual average rate of
16% and only reached 6,400 tons in 1987 (Annex I-3).



- 7 -
1.21      The international airport is run by a public company under MTPT
authority. The company is assisted by expatriates provided under bilateral
aid programs from Belgium and France. Air Burundi, the national airline, was
created in 1977 and is a public company operating under the authority of both
the Ministry of Defense and MTPT.  It owns two Twin-Otter aircraft providing
services to Kirundo, Kigali (Rwanda), Goma and Kalemie (Zaire). Since May
1988, it has also been leasing freight space on Air France and Sabena flights
from Europe to Bujumbura, mainly in order to play a price regulating role in
the air freight business to Burundi. Air Burundi is operating at a profit
which reached FBu 60 million in 1987 (US$ 450,000 equivalent) for a total
turnover of FBu 850 million, which increased to FBu 1,100 million in 1988 due
to its new freight operations.
C. The Road Sector
(i) The Network
1.22      The main road network (national and provincial roads under the new
classification 3/) now totals about 4,100 km, of which 1,011 km are paved
(25%) and 963 km (23%) are gravel of a low engineering standard; the rest are
earth roads and tracks (Table 1).  This network has adequate length and
reasonable coverage even though the east and north regions of the country
have a much lower proportion of paved and gravel roads than the other
regions. During the 1984-1988 period, due to an intensive improvement and
construction  program,  the  standard  cf  the  road  network  improved
significantly: the paved road network increased by 36% while the gravel road
network nearly doubled (Annex II).
3/   A new classification of roads, which better meets the administrative
structure of the country, has been prepared to replace soon the former
classification (National roads, Secondary roads, Provincial roads as
classified roads plus Rural roads as non-classified roads). There are now
three types of roads: National roads, Provincial roads and Communal roads.
National roads link provinces to each other as well as to the capital city
and to the border countries (Rwanda, Tanzania and Zaire). Provincial roads
link the districts to each other within the same province as well as to the
surrounding provinces. Communal roads represent all the other roads.



Table 1
Development of the Road Network   4/
(in km)
1979      1984      1988
A. Main Road Network
National Roads                     545        778       1,949
Provincial Roads                 2.365      2,122       2,150
Total                  2,910     2,900        4,099
B. Communal Roads                      2,500     2,500       2,189
GRAND TOTAL            5,410     5,400        6,288
C. Main Road Network by Surface Tvpe
Bitumen                            280        744       1,011
Gravel                              90        486         963
Earth                            2,540      1.670       2,125
Total                  2,910     2,900        4,099
Sources DGR, MTPDU, Bujumbura, February 1989
1.23      By regional standards,  the main road network is quite good
following heavy investments in the last decade and substantial maintenance
efforts undertaken under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects. However, the
nountry's difficult topography, poor soil conditions and heavy rains make it
more difficult and costly to maintain the road network adequately than for
other African countries. To prevent costly repairs and reconstruction in the
future will require systematic periodic maintenance of the paved network over
the life span of these investments. Lastly, the condition of the secondary
road network needs to be improved to lower transport cost and facilitate
movement  of  goods  countrywide.       Therefore,  road  maintenance  and
rehabilitation efforts have to be increased in response to the increasing
needs and to better serve the country's economy.
41 This table is using the new classification, i.e. roads which were labeled
Secondary and Provincial Roads in 1979 and 1984 have been grouped under the
name Provincial Roads so as to make a comparison possible.



-9-
(ii) Road Use
Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
1.24      The statistical motor vehicle fleet reached 20,000 vehicles in
1987, of which about 2,700 were owned by the Government (Annex 1-4). There
were 4 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants which to low for East African
countries. Although the annual growth rate has been decreasing since 1982
and now r-aches about 8.4 X, the fleet was still growing at a high average
annual rate of 9.3 Z ovor the 1981-1987 period.  In 1987, th, fleet was
dominated by passenger cars, situated mainly in Bujumbura, making up 56X,
with pickup trucks and station wagons at 182, buses 11%, trucks 82, four-
wheel drive vehicles, tractors and special vehicles making up the difference.
The mijor increases in the period were recorded for buses and four-wheel
drive vehicles.
1.25      Systematic traffic counts started on the former national and
secondary network in 1982 under the Third Highway Project. They now cover
about 3,000 km of the road network (mainly national and provincial roads) and
are carried out by DGR. The current structure will be reinforced under this
project with the creation of a Road Planning Unit financed by French aid
(FAC), IDA and the Government.  The traffic volumes rarely exceed 500
vehicles per day (vpd). The highest traffic volumes are found on the paved
roads radiating from Bujumbura. A significant part of the network (about 500
km), however, has traffic volumes of more than 200 vpd.
Fuel Consumation and Price
1.26      Over the period 1983-1988 the consumption of gasoline increased at
an average rate of 7.62 p.a. while consumption of diesel fuel followed an
erratic  evolution,   increasing  one  year, decreasing  the other year
(Annex 1-5). In 1988 for the first time, gasoline consumption significantly
surpassed diesel fuel consumption. Fuel is mostly imported by foreign-owned
companies (BP, Mobil and FINA) from the refinery in Nombasa or alternatively
Dar-es-Salaam (DSM), depending on the reliability of TRC from OSM to Kigoma.
Puel storage capacity in Burundi exceeds 20 million liters and is adequate
(representing approximately a five-month consumption reserve).
1.27      Retail fuel prices in Burundi are high due to high transport costs
and to a relatively high level of taxation. The retail price is US$ 0.65 per
liter or US$ 2.48 per US gallon for gasoline (super) and US$ 0.60 per liter
or US$ 2.28 per US gallon for diesel fuel (Annex 1-5). The FBu price for
gasoline has not changed since 1984 and has only been increased by FBu 2 (an
increase of about 2%) for diesel fuel.   There are no Government price
subsidies and the internal taxation on fuel is high. Import duties and taxes
on fuel are important sources of Goverrment revenue from road users
representing about 611 of CIF B;jumbura price for gasoline coming from
Nairobi or 1362 from DSM and about 461 of CIF Bujumbura price for diesel fuel
coming from Nairobi or 1021 from DSM (para. 1.37).



- 10 -
Road Transport Industry
1.28      Road transport in Burundi is dominated by private operators whose
tariffs are in principle controlled by Government but the legal provision to
that effect is not currently enforced.  At the same time, as a result of
improved road conditions, there has been a ,ubstantial increase in the
vehicle fleet.  Between 1982 and 1987 the number of trucks increased from
1,223 to 1,589 and buses from 1,267 to 2,278. Only about 10% of the trucks
and 15Z of the buses are owned by parastatals and the remainder is privately-
owned. Private vehicles tend to be smaller than publicly-owned ones. The
typical vehicle for passenger transport is a minibus, which has proven to be
faster and more mobile and economical for private operators. Of 434 buses
used for public transport in 1987, 243 were minibuses of which 183 had
becween 15 and 26 seats. This is largely the consequence of a country with
short distances and a homogenous population. A similar situation exists for
freight transport within Burundi. Entry into the transport industry is free
and routes are not regulated except for urban transport.   Tariffs are
regulated for urban passenger transport and have not been increased since
1980. The government owns two parastatals for road transport, OTRABU, mainly
for external freight transport and OTRACO for internal passenger transport.
1.29      With regard to parastatals, tariffs for OTRACO have been kept
unchanged for too long and as a result the revenue collected does not cover
operating costs. The Government therefore has to subsidize operations. A
performance contract between OTRACO and the Government was signed late in
1988 but would need to be substantially amended to provide for more
transparency in OTRACO's management and consistency with the general
objective of  reducing  subsidies to parastatals.    For both urban and
interurban routes, a clear separation needs to be made between services
requiring Government subsidy for social or other reasons and services for
which the resources from revenue collection should cover their costs.
Moreover, OTRACO is working where private operators ensure the largest share
of passenger transport services. Whereas interurban transport is virtually
free of rate regulations, OTRACO tariffs also apply to private operators for
urban transport in Bujumbura.  Therefore, a tariff increase to compensate
several years of inflationary cost changes is essential. Subsequently these
tariffs should be liberalized (para. 4.01 (1)).
1.30      As part of the structural adjustment program and of the reform of
parastatals the government has agreed to privatize OTRABU.  A recent study,
carried out under a program of reform of parastatals, has shown that OTRABU
is potentially viable. OTRABU ought to be in a position to operate freely
in a very competitive industry on similar terms as other operators.   An
effective way of beginning to achieve this is by increasing the private
ownership in the company to a point where 49% or less is owned by the
Government (para. 4.01 (m)).
Vehicle Regulations
1.31      Vehicle weight and dimensions are not yet major problems with
regard to domestic trucking. Development of the road network and increased
domestic cargo flows may encourage the use of heavier vehicles.   The
Government intends to monitor changes in loading patterns by the use of
mobile weight-scale surveys.  International trucking, however uses vehicles
capable of carrying payloads in excess of 40 tons and imposing axle loads



- 11 -
well above the present NCTA 10 ton-limit. Strict enforcement of this limit
for international traffic is not in Burundi's interest and the Government
should seek to obtain more flexible arrangements with transit partners,
accepting if necessary higher transit tolls. Fixed weight scales have been
installed on RNI and RN5 (as well as in the Port of Bujumbura, where all the
customs clearance is still done) and these should be used to monitor the flow
of vehicles and provide the data necessary for such negotiations (para. 4.01
(j)).
(iiL)     Orp.nisational Structure, Staffing. Training
1.32      MTPDU has full responsibility through DGR for design, construction
and maintenance of the national and provincial road network. DGR has three
technical departments (Chart 1): (a) the Department of Design and Control
(DTEC) in charge of contracting out and supervising feasibility and detailed
engineering studies, and construction works; (b) the Department of
Maintenance (DTE) in charge of road and bridge maintenance; and (c) the
Department of Administration and Finance (DAF) in charge of administrative
matters, finance and personnel. DGR's organizational structure is overall
sound.  The urban roads in Bujumbura are under the responsibility of the
Municipal Technical Services Corporation (SETEMU) within MTPDU, but funds for
their maintenance are provided by the Municipality of Bujumbura. However,
SETEMU is expected to be transferred to the Municipality of Bujumbura under
the  Second  Urban  Project  (Cr.  1968-BU).    The  remaining  network  of
approximately 2,200 km of earth tracks is under the responsibility of
district authorities (Administrations Communales); this was confirmed in the
law on municipalities dated April 1989. Maintenance and improvement of these
roads are carried out on a voluntary basis, with DGR providing some
assistance in emergency cases. These arrangements are adequate in most cases
for the low level of traffic carried by these roads, with a few exceptions
such as the access roads to the coffee-washing stations, hereunder referred
to as "coffee roads' (para. 2.11 to 2.13).
1.33      DOR has about 3,170 employees including about 2,380 unskilled day
laborers and 790 permanent staff who are civil servants or under contract.
Of the latter 32 are high-level staff, 63 supervisors and 695 skilled and
unskilled workers.   Between 1984 and 1988, high level staff increased by
about 60% and supervisors nearly trebled, showing a substantial improvement
in the quality of DGR's staff. Local staff are now fully responsible for
operating road production units without any direct participation from
expatriates. Several managers in technical departments are very good. But,
these significant achievements could be hampered by serious problems faced
by DGR.   More and more qualified staff have been attempting to joi!n the
private sector where salary levels are higher.   The status of the Civil
Service is far from being attractive enough to retain technicians in sp.cific
areas. As part of third tranche conditionalities in the SAL, the Government
will be formulating an action program designed to deal with the problem of
providing sufficient incentives to civil servants. In the meantime, there
is an acute shortage of well-trained mechanics, accountants and computer
operators.  In addition, staff are reluctant to go to the field for site
inspection due to the unreasonably low rate of daily allowance, resulting in
a severe constraint to effective supervision of works. DGR's personnel unit
within DAF has not so far developed a long-term personnel management policy.



- 12 -
The project will address these issues by hiring (i) local engineers and
technicians under short-term contracts for carrying out specific tasks and
supervision of works (para. 2.16-17) and (ii) a consultant to assist DGR in
setting up a personnel management system and a long-term personnel policy.
1.34      Training has proven to be more and more efficient and relevant to
DGR's  activities.    DGR's  field  brigades  are  now  able  to  operate
satisfactorily with only local staff including engineers, foremen and
equipment  operators.    But,  logistics,  accounting,  administrative  and
managerial tasks st'll require expatriate assistance to a large extent. For
the period 1985-88, about 300 semi-skilled laborers were trained in the
training center of Gitega and the first 16 equipment operators graduated
through a three-year training program in 1988. In addition, training covered
many critical areas, such as accounting, management, organization,
coumunication and quality control; with respect to this, 34 technicians from
production units and 29 administrative staff received additional training.
A special training program has also been implemented for 16 engineers having
graduated from the University since June 1987.   In addition, overseas
training for 27 technicians and high-level staff has produced good results.
In spite of this progress, the impact of training has been limited for two
main reasons: (i) low salaries in the Civil Service and (ii) lack of a
manpower development policy for the public sector. More specifically, losses
after training have critically affected mechanics; out of 120 mechanics
trained by the technical assistance financed by GTZ over the past ten years,
nearly two-thirds have left for the private sector (however not necessarily
a loss at the country level). Sustained training efforts will have to be
continued under the project (para. 2.18-19) to fill the needs of both public
and private sectors and progressively build up a competent labor force for
road maintenance in the private sector.
1.35      Te_hnical assistance has also evolved favorably along with progress
in training. Future needs for technical assistance will be in managerial
and sophisticated areas such as information systems, management, organization
and personnel management, planning, budget programing, procurement of
contracted out maintenance works, cost analysis and quality control rather
than in the production sector (para. 2.14 to 2.17).
(iv)      Financini  and Road User Charges
1.36      Programming of road expenditures has been included as a priority
in the PEP mechanism and starting in 1989 is subject to a yearly joint review
and agreement between the Government and the Association. Road maintenance
is mainly  financed  from the  investment  budget  (BEI) while  the only
contribution of the recurrent budget (BO) is to pay salaries of DGR
personnel.    The investment budget also covers the Government's  small
participation for externally-financed new construction or rehabilitation
projects.    External  sources  essentially  finance new  construction  and
rehabilitation but also some maintenance. In the 1985-1988 period, about 68%
of total expenditures (Annexe III-1) including local and external financing
for roads were devoted to capital investment (including road rehabilitation)
and 322 for road recurrent maintenance (including technical assistance) vs
83S and 17% in the 1980-1984 period, reflecting a slight improvement under



- 13 -
the Fourth Highway Project.    Since the road network is generally well
developed while road conditions are not fully satisfactory and require
increased maintenance, the Government has committed itself to give a higher
priority to maintenance over capital expenditures in allocating funds to its
highway sector, which was formally confirmed at negotiations (para. 4.01
(a)). This is already reflected in the road program for the forthcoming
years (para. 2.04).
1.37      Revenues from road user charbes have been growing at about 4Z per
annum in constant terms during the 1984-1988 period (see Annex IV), reaching
FBu 2.0 billion (US$ 11.6 million equivalent). Total revenues exceed actual
annual expenditures for road maintenance as well as the recommended increased
local funding of road maintenance (para. 1.38).  The revenues are also
sufficient to cover the Government's small participation in externally-
financed projects. However, most revenues from road user charges (except the
tax for the National Road Fund the earmarking of which was confirmed by the
Government in 1989) traditionally go to the recurrent budget which has made
very limited contributions to road maintenance. Since it is not desirable
to reduce the general budget's revenues from road users, the Government is
expected,to revise the road users taxation on a regular basis to cover the
BEI and National Road Fund requirements for road maintenance in addition to
maintaining the contribution to the recurrent budget at its present level
(para. 4.01 (g)).
1.38      During the 1984-1988 period, the annual local funding of road
maintenance was only about FBu 450 million (see Annex III-1) which covered
about 602 of the estimated road maintenance needs, with some additional
funding made available by IDA. The annual local financing requirements for
road maintenance and rehabilitation are estimated at about FBu 800 million
in 1989 prices (about USS 5.2 million), of which FBu 700 million from the
investment budget (BEI) and the National Road Fund and FBu 100 million from
the recurrent budget (B0). Taking into account the ressources channelled
through the National Road Fund (Fonds Routier National), the Government will
have to allocate the proper additional ressources required in the BEI and B0
for road maintenance.  The Association would be given the opportunity to
review DGR's budgets for the coming fiscal years (para. 4.01 (a) and (g)).
(v)       Pi
1.39      MTPDU is responsible through DGR for planning, construction, and
maintenance of the main road network and submits multiyear programs and
yearly budget proposals to the Ministry of Planning. DGR's planning capacity
remains relatively weak. Even though the balance between road maintenance
and capital expenditures has improved under the Fourth Highway Project
(para. 1.36), a very substantial increase in maintenance funding is still
required to meet the country's needs. There is also a need within DGR for
staff with better planning skills who would be able to influence the design
of road program by focusing more on maintenance needs and thus materialize
the commitment of Government to road maintenance, as expressed in a recent
policy statement by MTPDU. A Road Planning Unit (Cellule de Gestion Routiere
- CGR) will be set up within DGR under the project to strengthen MTPDU's



- 14 -
planning capacity (para. 2.15). The new Road Planning Unit, as well as a new
Control Unit for maintenance works (para. 2.16), will be given a permanent
legal status within DGR. The Road Planning Unit will fulfill the planning
functions of MTPDU for the road sector.
(vi)      FnRineerinR. Construction and Maintenance
1.40      DTEC is responsible for road design with9n DGR. Its staff totals
29 employees, including seven Burundian engineers among whom DTEC manager and
four expatriates provided under bilateral aid. Engineering standards follow
those developed by the French Ministry of Public Works with appropriate
adaptation to conditions in Africa regarding pavement design. DTEC's design
capacity is limited to small projects. Studies for larger projects as well
as construction supervision are contracted out by DTEC to foreign consulting
firms.   The Government's National Laboratory of Public Works (LNTP) is
carrying out most soil and material tests for design and construction
supervision of civil works but has now to compete with the university
laboratory for works for the private sector.   French and Belgian aid is
expected to continue to provide technical assistance and training to LNTP in
the next few years.
1.41      Most road construction is carried out by contract awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). The construction industry
is dominated by foreign contractors using mostly equipment-based methods
while domestic contractors carry out some building construction and minor
road works, sometimes through joint venture and subcontracting arrangements.
An IDA-financed project (Local Construction Inctustry, 1982-1987) to assist
the development of the building construction sector has had limited results
because the market of building construction was constrained by the economic
conditions and the road maintenance market was still reserved to force
account teams.   The Government has now decided to open this market to
domestic private contractors, which will be strongly supported under the
project and may also get assistance from the ongoing Small-Scale
Enterprises/APEX Project (Cr. 1889-BU). Labor-based methods have been used
at times for construction of low traffic roads with mixed results.   The
results have been rather disappointing with roads in mountainous areas built
by force account with USAID and IDA assistance under the Third Highway
Project, whereas they are presently encouraging uneer a UNDP project carried
out with ILO support on the central plateau. It is expected that recourse
to small and medium local construction firms would stimulate the increased
utilization of labor in the construction industry.
1.42      So far, virtually all road maintenance works except resurfacing of
paved roads are carried out by force account by DTE.   Regravelling and
rehabilitation with spot improvement of earth roads are carried out by four
production units (heavy brigades) based respectively in Bujumbura, Ngozi,
Gitega and Bururi. Four light brigades carry out resurfacing works on earth
roads. The equipment for the brigades was provided under financing by IDA
(under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects), the OPEC Fund, Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation, United Nations Capital Development Fund and Italy.
Patching and resealing works on paved roads are carried out by two brigades
equipped under the Fourth Highway Project.   Routine maintenance, including



- 15 -
cleaning ditches, culverts and shoulders is carried out unevenly through
labor-based cantonnage supervised by the 15 provincial supervisors installed
by DGR in 1987. Bridge maintenance is carried out by a bridge brigade. Each
brigade is headed by a Burundian engineer.   Road maintenance is overall
carried out reasonably well, but improvements are still needed:
(i)  utilization of equipment remains very low, mainly due to lack of
skilled mechanics and delays in supply of spare parts, and should
be increased;
(ii)  procurement of materials, especially bitumen, should be better
planned and monitored;
(iii) fuel consumption, although recently improved, remains too high and
needs to be better controlled;
(iv)  quality of work is uneven and needs to be improved;
(v)  grading on gravel roads should receive a greater priority than in
the past and should be carried out systematically; and
(vi) routine maintenance (0cantonnage") needs to be reorganized to cover
the main network and to be better monitored.
These operational issues will be addressed under the project through (a)
recourse to gradual contracting out of road activities; (b) assistance to DGR
in planning, cost accounting and setting up appropriate management
information indicators; (c) creation and operation of a Control Unit for
Maintenance Works for supervision of works by force account and under
contract; and (d) increased budgets for road maintenance.
D. PAST BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.43      The .sRociation has already financed one engineering and four
highway projects and has helped develop the country's trucking operations
through an IDA credit. The First Highway Project (Cr. 467-BU, 1974), which
had its origin in an engineering credit (S.11-BU, 1970), was completed
successfully in 1980 and provided US$ 5.0 million for a road maintenance
project.   The project was an initial effort to establish adequate road
maintenance practices.
1.44      The Second Highway Project (Cr. 773-BU, US$ 14 million, 1978)
provided financing for the paving of a major national road, Bujumbura-Rugombo
(RN5: 65 km), the commencement of an improvement program for selected
secondary roads and bridges, the construction of a new central laboratory,
strengthening of the mechanized maintenance brigade and provision of
technical assistance and road equipment. The project was completed in July
1983.  The road maintenance components of the project have generally met
their institution-building objectives whereas the road construction
components had cost overruns of over 50X due to technical problems and
serious disruption in international transport in the region following
hostilities in Uganda in 1979.



- 22 -
operating by the end of 1990 and their number should increase further under
the proposed Coffee Sector Project and may total close to 200 units by 1994.
Most of the washing stations have to use a communal road before they reach
the main network; these access roads are generally in poor condition and are
not regularly maintained. So far the washing stations used to be built and
operated by public entities, the Regional Development Companies (SRD -
Societe Regionale de Developpement). The SRDs have traditionally built the
access roads and maintained them on an ad hoc basis, generally using funds
provided by externally-financed projects.   They also used to intervene
occasionally on the main network to keep it passable for the traffic to and
from the coffee-washing stations whenever DGR was not able to do so. This
system has not been the most cost-effective. Besides, it can no longer be
maintained because the SRDs will be reorganized in the medium-term and
subsequently the coffee-washing stations will be privatized under the
proposed Coffee Project. Hence, there is a need to set up a new organization
to address the specific needs for rehabilitation and maintenance of these
roads and to provide for their financing.   It is envisaged that DGR be
utilized as a planning, contracting and supervising entity for these roads
whereas works would be carried out by contractors.  Since these roads are
presently under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAE), an agreement between MAE and MTPDU is needed to define DGR's
role and responsibilities (para. 4.01 (d)). A cess on coffee revenues will
be collected (tentatively estimated at about FBu 4 per kg of coffee) to
provide the local financing needed to maintain these roads (para. 4.01 (e)).
2.12      The project will gradually improve the access roads to the existing
washing stations and establish a maintenance system for the network of access
roads to all coffee-washing stations 1/.  The gradual improvement of the
existing access roads will concern about 500 km of tracks (an average of 6.5
km per station). It will consist of:
(i)  focusing on drainage and black spots;
(ii)  setting a labor-based maintenance system; and
(iii)  subsequently systematically improving the trafficability through
localized embankment and spot regravelling.
2.13      These works will be carried out under contract by local SMEs
essentially using labor-based techniques, under DGR supervision. Training
will be organized for the SMEs (para. 2.19).
1/   The access roads to the coffee-washing stations to be built in the
future are expected to be financed under the proposed Coffee Project,
like the coffee-washing stations and built by the same contractor.
However, the proposed project would set up a maintenance organization
available for these roads too.



- 17 -
high priority to training both in MDTPU and MTPT, (ii) shifting maintenance
works from force account to the private sector and developing a market for
the domestic construction industry which is expected to become in the long
term a significant actor in influencing the country's sectoral policy
regarding road maintenance, (iii) increasing emphasis on the need to improve
the overall sector performance through more liberalization, reform of
transport psrastatals and of the regulatory framework, better planning at
the sectoral level through the PEP mechanisms and strengthened dialogue with
the neighboring countries to improve the conditions of transport operations
on the Import routes.



- 18 -
II. THE PROJECT
Ob1ectives
2.01      The Transport Sector Project would support, at the sector level,
the general macroeconomic policy of the Government and its efforts of
structural adjustment. Its main specific objectives are the following:
(a) reduce overall transport costs for the country;
(b) ensure a better economic integration of the sector, in particular
by encouraging the domestic private sector, both transport
operators and construction firms, and liberalizing the transport
sector through appropriate reform of the regulatory framework;
(c) make a positive contribution to the financing of Government
expenditures and a balanced budget;
(d) support the development of coffee exports, the main source of
foreign exchange income for the country;
(e) consolidate and improve road maintenance practices, institutions
and funding, and achieve a better balance between maintenance and
new construction; and
(f) develop planning capabilities for the transport sector within both
MTPDU and MTPT.
These objectives will be addressed through (i) specific project components
and subcomponents described hereafter and (ii) transport policy improvement
measures (para. 4.01). One out of the two project components will address
the needs of DGT for institutional support and financing of transport studies
and subsequent priority investments while the other will provide support to
a multiyear road maintenance and rehabilitation program.
A. TransDort Component
2.02      This component will provide DGT with institutional support and
assistance to carry out transport-related studies and will have a provision
for transport investment needs to be identified under these studies.  In
addition, a Road Transport Directorate would be established within MTPT to
monitor the performance contract of OTRACO (see para. 1.29), as well as
passenger and freight traffic. The overall objectives of the institutional
support to DGT are to (i) create a transport data base and strengthen DGT's
planning capacity; (ii) assist in monitoring international transport and
preparing adequate sector policies especially aiming at diversifying export
routes for coffee and lowering global transport costs; (iii) assist the
country in its dialogue with transit countries through better knowledge of
relevant data in complement to other donor's actions which aim essentially
at improving the physical transit infrastructure; and (iv) assist in



- 19 -
reforming the transport parastatals. Support will be provided through (i)
technical assistance (48 man-months of transport economist, 24 man-months of
an expert for management of transport parastatals, 12 man-months of experts
for short-term assignments and 48 man-months of junior transport economilt
to be recruited locally) which will continue the technical assistance
financed under the Fourth Highway Project since November 1988; and (ii)
training for DGT staff including tne organization of training seminars in
Bujumbura and overseas training (60 man-months), to be financed under the
project.  Outline TORs for these activities are in Annex IX.
2.03      The project will finance a number of transport-related studies
including studies ons
(i) road safety and traffic regulations and traffic conditions in
Bujumbura;
(ii)  conditions and safety of navigation on the lake and development
of small fishing port facilities along the shore; and
(iii)  air transport including management of the Bujumbura International
Airport and operatiors of Air Burundi;
Outline TORs for these studies, which amount in total to about 24 man-months
of experts, are in Annex XIII. A provision s.f funding for additional studies
to be agreed upor later has also been included (14 man-months) as well as a
provision to finance priority investments to be identified under the studies,
such as airport equipment renewal and devices for the improvement of lake
navigation safety.
B. Road Component
Description
2.04      A comprehensive program of road activities and institutional
strengthening has been prepared by the Government and submitted to the donor
community. The project comprises:
(i)       a four-year road rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance
program (1990-1993) consisting oft
(a) rehabilitation of 75 km and .esurfacing (single- or double-
surface treatment) of 413 km of paved roads, upgrading to
paved standards of 26.4 km of gravel road and rehabilitation
of 565 km of earth/gravel roads;
(b) patching of the entire paved road network (1,011 km);
regravelling of selected earth roads (1,200 km in four years);
grading of the main earth/gravel roads (8,000 km in four
years); labor-based maintenance on the whole main network
(about 4,100 km); and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation;



- 20 -
(iL)      rehabilitation and maintenance of the coffee roads by local
SME8 using mostly labor-based techniques;
(iii)     institutional support to DGR through the creation of a Control
Unit and of a Road Planning Unit, technical assistance and
training for its staff and for small- and medium-scale road
maintenance contractors; and
(iv)      feasibility study of an equipment-renting pool.
(a) Road Rehabilitation , Uwaradint and Maintenar.ce Program
2.05      The four-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program (1990-
1993) will focus on maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of priority
roads for economic development, and on the extension of appropriate
maintenance practices to the whole main road network. To meet the double
objective of increasing DGR's capac'ty to carry out road maintenance
operations efficiently without undue burden on its organization and to
promote the private domestic construction industry, the works will be carried
out both under contract and by force account. The projtct would be a first
phase of a gradual shift of activities from force account to the private
sector.   Since the project will provide support to increase maintenance
operations, it is not intended to reduce force account activities but to
utilize a share of the increased road maintenance activities to create a
permanent market for private domestic contractors. It is not envisaged to
increase the equipment fleet to carry out force account activitif-; however
these activities may be increased through improved efficiency, wk a is also
one of the project's goals.
Works by Contract
2.06      Rehabilitation and resurfacing of paved roads as well as upgrading
to paved standards of a gravel road will be carried out by contractors with
the assistance of consultants for the supervision of works. Such contractors
have traditionally been major foreign firms with or without a local
subsidiary.  A key objective of the project is to increase the national
capacity for unpaved road maintenance by involving domestic contractors in
this field, which was in the past reserved for DTE's brigades. A handful of
contractors can undertake equipment-based periodic maintenance works on
unpaved roads.   Other contractors specialized in housing, businesses or
collectivities can be involved in drainage and bridge construction, repairs
and maintenance. Finally, the lengthman system (cantonnage) for labor-based
routine maintenance, so far carried out by direct labor, can be contracted
out to individuals (single-contractor scheme as in Ghana), small contractors,
businessmen or collectivities (as in Zaire). Contracting out these works
will open new fields for growth of the domestic private sector and employment
in the construction sector. It will also enhance the cost-effectiveness of
road maintenance because firms or workers will be paid on the basis of works
actually done and not on the basis of time spent. The goal of this promotion
program is to establish a capacity for equipment-based raintenance in the
domestic private sector equivalent to that of DTE's brigades with a



- 21 -
production capacity of 1,000 km of grading and 150 km of regravelling per
year.
2.07      A consultant previously involved in the Local Construction Industry
Project reviewed the capacities of contractors and drafted an action plan for
providing them with technical assistance on site and training through
seminars when they start carrying out road works.
Works by Force Account
2.08      DTE  will continue to carry out (i) patcling operations on the
entire paved road network; (ii) a large share of improvement works (58Z),
regravelling and grading (651) on earth/gravel roads; and (iii) the portion
of "cantonnage' or labor-based routine maintenance on the entire network
(4,100 km) for which it will not be possible to contract out works due to
lack of potential contractors immediately available. It is expected that the
portion of the works to be contracted out will increase over the years.
2.09      To carry out these works, DTE will continue to run (i) its four
heavy brigades (for regravelling and improvement of unpaved roads) which will
require mechanical and logistical support from the regional workshops in
Bujumbura, Ngozi, Gitega and Bururi (already built and equipped with GTZ
financing); (ii) its four light brigades for grading the unpaved network;
(iii) its two brigades in charge of patching and resealing paved roads; and
(iv) its brigade in charge of bridge maintenance. In addition to this, DTE
will hire labor for labor-based routine maintenance under the supervision of
the 15 provincial supervisors, with the objective of progressively reducing
the directly-hired labor over years and increasing contracted out works as
indicated above. DTE will receive technical assistance support under the
project to carry out its tasks (para 2.16-17) and the regional workshops as
well as the bridge maintenance brigade will receive financial and technical
assistance from GTZ. One heavy brigade will be used as a permanent training
unit for both DTE and private contractors' staff. By the end of the project,
it is expected that the production capacity for equipment-based road works
of the DTE's brigades and of the domestic contracting industry will be
equivalent. According to the cost-efficiency reached by these two production
groups, DGR will decide whether and at which pace it will be appropriate or
not to reduce the share of direct labor and increase that of contractors in
the following years.
2 10      The proposed project will include rehabilitation of and spare parts
for existing equipment and a limited amount of equipment replacement for
DTE's brigades as well as materials and supplies needed for the program. The
project also includes a feasibility study of a commercially-oriented
equipmert-renting pool (para 2.20).
(b) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Coffee Roads
2 11      A program of rehabilitation and maintenance of access roads to
coffee-washing stations ("coffee roads") has been designed to support
production of the highest grade of coffee ("fully-washed') which is processed
through a number of washing stations. There will be 110 washing stations



- 22 -
operating by the end of 1990 and their number should increase further under
the proposed Coffee Sector Project and may total close to 200 units by 1994.
Most of the washing stations have to use a communal road before they reach
the main network; these access roads are generally in poor condition and are
not regularly maintained. So far the washing stations used to be built and
operated by public entities, the Regional Development Companies (SRD -
Societe Regionale de Developpement). The SRDs have traditionally built the
access roads and maintained them on an ad hoc basis, generally using funds
provided by externally-financed projects.   They also used to intervene
occasionally on the main network to keep it passable for the traffic to and
from the coffee-washing stations whenever DGR was not able to do so. This
system has not been the most cost-effective. Beaides, it can no longer be
maintained because the SRDs will be reorganized in the medium-term and
subsequently the coffee-washing stations will be privatized under the
proposed Coffee Project. Hence, there is a need to set up a new organization
to address the specific needs for rehabilitation and maintenance of these
roads and to provide for their financing.   It is envisaged that DGR be
utilized as a planning, contracting and supervising entity for these roads
whereas works would be carried out by contractors.  Since these roads are
presently under the responsibility of the Ministry of AgricLtlture and
Livestock (MAE), an agreement between MAE and MTPDU is needed to define DGR's
role and responsibilities (para. 4.01 (d)). A cess on coffee revenues will
be collected (tentatively estimated at about FBu 4 per kg of coffee) to
provide the local financing needed to maintain these roads (para. 4.01 (e)).
2.12      The project will gradually improve the access roads to the existing
washing stations and establish a maintenance system for the network of access
roads to all coffee-washing stations 1/.  The gradual improvement of the
existing access roads will concern about 500 km of tracks (an average of 6.5
km per station). It will consist oft
(i)  focusing on drainage and black spots;
(ii)  setting a labor-based maintenance system; and
(iii)  subsequently systematically improving the trafficability through
localized embankment and spot regravelling.
2.13      These works will be carried out under contract by local SMEs
essentially using labor-based techniques, under DGR supervision. Training
will be organized for the SMEs (para. 2.19).
1/   The access roads to the coffee-washing stations to be built in the
future are expected to be financed under the proposed Coffee Project,
like the coffee-washing stations and built by the same contractor.
However, the proposed project would set up a maintenance organization
available for these roads too.



- 23 -
(c) Institutional Strengthening
2.14      The multiyear  road program has  a significant  component  for
supporting institutional development in the sector, including technical
assistance and traini:'fg. Two new units: a Road Planning Unit (Cellule de
Gestion Routiare- CGR) and a Control Unit will be created within DGR with a
permanent legal status (para. 4.01 (c)). Technical assistance and training
programs have been conceived globally in order to coordinate the various
donors' interventions. The technical assistance program has been designed
to support development of the planning, subcontracting and quality control
functions of DGR, and to strengthen managerial capacities of DGR in areas
where it remains difficult to recruit and/or retain local skilled staff. The
training program is basically a continuation of the actions undertaken under
the Fourth Highway Project (para. 1.34) and also addresses the new needs
resulting from the private sector's involvement in road maintenance
activities.   IDA is expected to finance 340 man-months of international
experts and 144 man-montrhs of junior locally recruited experts under the
project (see details in Annex VIII) whereas FAC, AGCD and GTZ would finance
44 man-months, 44 man-months and 220 man-months respectively.
Technical assistance
2.15      FAC will provide financial assistance and two expatriate staff to
help create the Road Planning Unit to set up and operate a road management
system (TORs in Annex X). The paved network will be covered in a first phase
and the unpaved network in a second phase starting after one to one-and-a-
half years of operations. The unit will install and run the HDM-Ill model
and two local engineers who have already been trained in its utilization will
be appointed to the unit as counterpart staff. This unit, which will report
directly to the Director General, will be in charge ofs
(i) collecting data and establishing a data base comprising road
geometric and physical characteristics, road construction and
maintenance operations, unit costs for road activities and vehicle
operations, and traffic counts; data collection campaigns to be
financed under the project will be carried out with the assistance
of consultants;
(ii) updating those data on a systematic basis;
(iii)  operating the HDM-III model to formulate optimal policies for road
maintenance, upgrading and construction, and to prepare a multiyear
road expenditure program;
(iv) assisting MTPDU and DGR in preparing their sectoral proposal for
a multiyear Public Expenditure Program (PEP) in coordination with
the Ministry of Plan; and
(v) providing advice to DTE and DTEC on the formulation of their
respective work programs.



- 24-
2.16      A Control Unit will be created within riTEC to contract out road
maintenance works to the private sector and to monitor implementation of all
road maintenance works whether carried out under contract or by force account
(TORs  in Annex XI).   D'EC  is already  in charge of supervising the
implementation of new construction and major rehabilitation works under
cont.e&*t, with the assistance of three expatriate engineers (one provided by
AGCD and two by FAC, but the two latter positions were canceled in 1989 due
to a decrcase in the volume of new construction and a reorientation in French
technical assistance). The new unit will need the support of an expatriate
engineer financed by IDA in addition to the two positions maintained and/or
to be created by AGCD and will have local counterpart engineers already
working in DTEC.   The unit will hire local consultants when needed to
supervise works and prepare bidding documents. The consultant in charge of
assisting contractors on training sites (para. 2.19) will also assist the
Control Unit in preparing the contract documents, selecting the contractors
and will also review the current regulation for classifying contractors with
regard to road construction and maintenance works.
2.17      In addition to the above, DGR will continue to need technical
assistance to strengthen its managerial capacities. While the number of
expatriates on site will decrease, technical assistance will still be greatly
needed to assist DGR in carrying out its traditional activities in the
following areas: (i) accounting and financial management (one expert); (ii)
procurement of spare parts and materials (one expert); (iii) management of
force account works and cost control (one expert); (iv) operations of the
workshop and warehouses in Bujumbura and the regional workshops in Bururi,
and Gitega (four experts provided by GTZ); and (v) operation of the bridge
maintenance and rehabilitation brigade (one expert provided by GTZ).  In
addition to permanent experts, DGR will have recourse to short-term
expatriate and local experts under fixed-term contracts for assistance in
specific areas, especially to compensate for the difficulties met by DGR for
recruiting  and/or  retaining  skilled  staff  in  certain  specialties
(particularly accounting, computer operating, project design and onsite work
supervision). This should not be seen as an attempt at turning around the
civil service constraints but rather as an attempt at developing the
capabilities of local private consultants, the availability of which is
currently very limited. This is part of the overall efforts to strengthen
private sector capabilities for road works.
Training
2.18      The training program designed for the 1990-1993 period will address
the needs at all staff levels for DGR's traditional activities and the needs
resulting from the promotion of the private sector in road maintenance
activities. It will require two full-time training specialists (one of them
will assist DGR in developing a personnel management system) plus one
training specialist during one-and-a-half years for assistance to the private
sector (para. 2.19).   Regarding DGR staff, the objective is to train or
provide complementary training to: (i) 260 skilled laborers; (li) 40 worksite
managers and supervisors; (iii) 120 assistant mechanics and engine operators;
(iv) 36 equipment operators; (v) 15 accountants, secretaries and storemen;
and (vi) 27 higher level technical, administrative and financial staff. The
training plan also includes overseas training (60 man-months) for about 20
staff (five to six per year for one- to three-month periods) in specific



- 25 -
techniques of management, operations and transport-related environmental
issues, for which local training would be difficult and costly to provide.
With respect to implementation of this program, the following aspects have
been taken into account: (i) full use of available training facilities of the
Gitega Training Center, and (i$) coordination of human resources from the
various technical assistance programs. On-the-job training of mechanics and
electricians at the central workshop in Bujumbura will be provided by
bilateral aid from GTZ, while specific training in project design and road
work control will be carried out by experts financed by IDA, FAC and AGCD
through seminars and on-the-job training. In addition to this, a number of
accompanying measures will be taken to firmly establish manpower development
within DGR. lhese include the strengthening of DAF's Division of Personnel,
the setting up of a personnel management policy by the end of the first year
of the project implementation, the reorganization of the Training Unit and
the setting up of a Training Coordination Comittee to provide a functional
link between training and personnel management, and the technical departments
(DTE and DTEC).
2.19      To address the needs of the private sector involved in road works,
the project will also help domestic contractors enhance their technical
skills. First, training seminars on road techniques, equipment management,
site management and contract management will be given to managers, engineers
and technicians; operators and mechanics will also receive refresher training
in the DGR's training center in Gitega.   Then, training works will be
organized to train construction firms on road techniques; a technical
assistant will assist them in carrying out the %orks satisfactorily with
regard to quality and cost effectiveness during the implementation of the
training works.    When  training works  are  completed,  the  successful
contractors will be graduated to road contractor qualification and will be
allowed to participate to relevant LCB. The local component of the cost of
this technical assistance will be charged to contractors benefiting from it
according to billing rates to be published at the time candidate contractors
are preparing their proposals for the training works.
(d) Feasibility Study of an Eguipment-Renting Pool
2.20      A study will be carried out analyzing the appropriateness of
setting up an equipment-renting pool, in charge if renting road construction
equipment to DGR's brigades and to domestic contractors (TORs in Annex XII).
C. Cost Estimates
2.21      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties but
including contingencies, Is estimated at US$ 90.82 million equivalent with
a foreign component of US$ 57.49 million (632) and local costs of US$ 33.32
million (372).  Taxes are estimated at US$ 3.05 million.  Base costs are
expressed in prices as of mid-1989. Physical contingencies of 102 have been
added to base costs. Price contingencies have been added to base costs plus
physic.l contingencies. Price contingencies are based on recent estimates
of (i) international Inflation: 7.22 in 1990 and 4.42 from 1991 onwards; and
($$) local inflation: 4.52 in 1990 and 42 from 1991 onwards. The detailed
project costs are shown at Table 2.1.



- 26 -
Table 2. 1
Proiect Cost Estimates 2/
USiS *illion)            ff8u million  Foreign as
A. i                                                al For iOn Tot    local Foreign   Tott t vf total
1) T chnieal  itne                          0.14  1.2s  1.42    22.0   16.6   220.8          90t
(2 Trining                                  0.04  0 U   0.42      6.v    8.0    Ui.1         90i
(8) Study Fund                              0.l0  0.75  0,81    98.1   112.4   140.65        W0
(4) Tsnert Investment                       0.00  2.10  2.10      0.0   825.5i  825.5i      100t
TOTAL 6858 CASTS TiRAP98T CU0IT                   0.87  4.48  4.65    56.6   694.6   751.4        926
m. _
I. iid Rehabi I I tlont;rdina /Ime rov7nt irora
(12   hablitaton  4 (78 h-)                  0.70  2.11  2.81   109.0   826.9   435.6         76:
Urdine lewinda-Subanan (26.4 ha)         1.6   4.5 65 .21   2t8.6   673.8   962.6         701
(8 Improvesant Gravel Ronds       (268 ha7
Force Account (885 he)  1.56  1.56  8.16 i  44.6   244.6   489.6       W6s
Labor-On   Works under Contract (No ia   1.78  0.00  1.78   267.4      0.0   267.4        Ot
Sub-total                     5.I7  6.04  13.91   0.6  1,248.44 21*5.3          863
XI. Periodic Meintengiep Pr8ora2
) Reurfacng Paved Roeds           (413 ia)  2.05  6.16  6.21   816.2   954.3  1272.6         78)
(2) RegravoIIIno Er l t/Ora vl Road-
iFore Account f:760 h)  00.91  1.86  2.26   140.4   210.6   851.0       60i
Under Contrat (420 ha)  0.87  1.83  1.9O    68.2   205.6   294.0        70i
(8) Bridge lbintenance and Rehabilitation    1.06  0.46  1.58   168.0    72.0   240.0        0S
u b-tot l                     4.61  9.381 13.92  714.78 1,442.85 2,157.60  6    70
III. Rautina #ilntsnancs Prooram
*0 Patching Paved Road                       0.61  0.S5  1.      126.     54.0   180.0 aiJ
(2) Crading Earth/Cravel Roads
Force Account (5.200 ki   2.16  2.18  4.86   8s.o0   86.0   676.0        i
Under Contract (2.600 he) 1i.0  1.98  8.26   201.6   302.4   504.0        602
8 Lord   intenane                           2.69  0.48  6.85   448.8    71.5   520.0         142
(  Emergenies                               0.82  0.00  o 02    s6.o      0.0    60.o       0o
(5) Euipment A Spare Parts            0.:67  6.01  6.68   106.6   981.8  104.          906
Sub-totel                     6.87  10.9s 19.82 1,297.16 1,697.20 2,994.78     671
IV. Was Rod Pro-
Cl) Impr_rovnt (emisting station onlj)      8.57  0.19  8.75   52.7    29.1  861              81
(2)  eihntenance (including future st tiono)  0.62  0.04  0.68    s26.9    69.7   1.6 1
4.8   0.28  4.62   679.7    85.6   715.4         Si5
V. Inatitutional Davlaoon_nt
Cl) Control Unit                             0.89  0.1S  0.54    60.4    22.6    68.0         27m
(2) Road Planning Unit                       0.43  0.64  1.06    66.0    99.0   165.0         606
8) Technical WAristance                     0.62  5.59  6.22    96.4   667.2   968.5         90e
)  chanical WAornhops fTA included)        0.29  1.15  1.44    48.1   176.6   228.7         60m
) Tr inin  (TA included)                 0.7  1.77  2.14   s8.0   274.0   832.0           ans
(6) Study Fund                           0.19  0.76  0.95    29.4   117.5   148.9         No0
Sub-total                     2.29 10.06 1.85   8.2 1,656.9  1,914.1           614
TOTAL amE CoStS a      ii T                      25.ti  86.86 54.11 8,987.1  5,960.2 9,937.2       60T
UTiKL IMPIDRM11                                  25.69 48.06 68.96 4,013.7 6,674.9 10o,t66.7      6M6
ContiAencies (8261 bass costs)
-ical (ll05 base cots)                     2.89  4.81  6.90   401.4   667.5 1,068.9         626
PrIc                                       4.64 10.12 14.98   780.2 1,569.0 2,819.2         6s8
Onim    m 3OS3.82 s7.49 90.62 8,165.8  6,911.4 14.076.7                                           685
2/     Coete arn  net of taxe  which are estiated at Flu 470 million  (USS 8.06  quivalent).



- 27 -
2.22      The costs of works ci paved roads are estimated at US$ 20,400/km
for periodic maintenance (resurfacing). The costs of improvement works on
earth/gravel roads are estimated at USS 15,000/km for equipment-based works
and USS 7,500/km for labor-based works under contract (including coffee
roads).   The cost of road upgrading to paved standards are based on a
feasibility study by a consulting firm and actual cost of similar works in
the country. Periodic maintenance costs on earth/gravel roads (regravelling)
are estimated at USS 4,500/km. Routine maintenance costs are estimated at
USS 1,000/km for paved roads (patching) and US$ 1,200/km for earth roads
(grading).   Basic routine maintenance ("cantonnage") on the whole main
network is estimated at US$ 200/km per year. These unit costs are based on
those of similar recent and ongoing works in the country.   Costs of
equipment, spare parts, materials e-v supplies are based on recent bid prices
and operations in Burundi. The costs of works by force account shown in
table 2.1 do not include equipment depreciation nor spare parts since
equipment and spare parts costs are shown separately in the table. The man-
month cost of technical assistance services has been estimated in line with
those for similar and ongoing services in Burundi. The costs of fellowships
for overseas training are estimated at US$ 6,000 per trainee per month,
including tuition and fees, housing, travel and subsistence.
D. Economic Justification of the Prolect
2.23      The proposed project is well justified and yields an overall ERR
of about 32%. An economic analysis of individual components of the project
is presented in Chapter III.
S. Prolect Financing
2.24      Five institutions have already pledged a total of US$ 65.2 million
equivalent of ready financing, including IDA (US$ 43.2 million credit), AfDB
(US$ 6.8 million from existing balances of past credits), AGCD (US$ 5.0
million of which US$ 2.1 million in grant and FBu 450 million - US$ 2.9
million equivalent of counterpart funds generated under balance of payments'
aid), FAC (USS 1.4 million) and GTZ (US$ 1.8 million). The contributions of
the Government and the Coffee cess yield are estimated respectively at about
US$ 23.7 million and US$ 1.9 million. The Government participation will be
provided by (i) the recurrent budget (BO) - for salaries and operation of
offices, and (ii) the capital budget (BEI) and the National Road Fund - for
all other locally-financed expenditures (para. 4.01 (a)). The Coffee cess
will provide the local counterpart financing for the access roads (para. 4.01
(e)).   The National Road Fund contribution and a portion of the BEI
contribution are to be credited to DGR on a quarterly basis in a special
account opened in the Central Bank (para. 4.01 (b)). The remaining elements
for new equipment and spare parts amounting to US$ 7.0 million are expect -
to be financed by Italy, Japan and/or OPEC. These supplies would be required
to replace existing equipment towards the end of the project implementation
period to allow DGR to continue its activities beyond the project period.
Hence they are not high priority project items but have been left for donors



- 28 -
who are in early stages of discussions with Government for possible financing
of such items.
P. Iualementation end Procurement
2.25      The project will be implemented by MTPT through DGT for the
transport component and by MTPDU through DGR for the road component.  The
expected  implementation  schedule  for major activities  of each project
component is shown in Chart 3.  This schedule ha  been discussed and agreed
during negotiations. The project will in principle cover a five-year period
starting July 1990 due to the time needed to carry out the works. The works
by contractors on paved and gravel roads should start in March 1991 and take
48 months to be completed. Equipment for road maintenance to be financed by
the IDA credit should be delivered by June 1991, about six months after
notification of contracts to the suppliers. Technical assistance for road
maintenance management and planning will be provided for four years starting
June 1990. The implementation of the transport investment is expected to
begin in 1991 depending on the results of the sectoral studies to be carrid
out in 1990. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
2.26      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2
Procurement ArranRements 3/
(US$ million)
Non   Total
Proloet Element       ICB    LCB   Other AsDlic.   Costs
Civil Works          22.7   15.1            18.3 y  56.1
(12.6)   (9.1)                (21.7)
VehleIs, EquI_pmnt,   6.6             a.8 6/        17.4
Materials & Supplies    (8.6)        (0.5) 3         (9-1)
Consultant Services                  18.9 V/        13.9
Includino Studies                    (9.8)          (9.3)
Tr InIng/FellowshI                  8 4            8.4
l8 1)          ft,l)
Tot I                81.8   16.1    2081    19.8   90.$
(21.2)   (9.1)  (12.9)         (48.2)
3/   The figures In parenthesis are amunts financed by IDA.
4/   Force account works: Includes DOM staff salaries and suppliTs financed from local sources
and procured under local rules.
51   Procurement rules of other donors.
6/   International or local shopping on the basls of at least thres quotations.
7/   IDA guide Ines (August 1901) will be applled for US$ 9 8mlllon. Th remaining consultant
services financed by the other donors will be procured under their respective guidelines
for USI 4.6 ml II on.



- 29 -
2.27      Major civil works for upgrading a gravel road to paved standards
and resurfacing of paved roads totalling about US$ 22.7 million would be
carried out by contractors on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB), in accordance with the 1985 Bank Group Guidelines after suitable pre-
qualification process.
2.28      Works smaller and dispersed all over the country on paved or gravel
roads costing less than USS 500,000 each and totalling about US$ 15.1 million
will be carried out by contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures advertised locally with a bid submission period of at least
60 days. Adequate competition will be generated in LCB since there is a
reasonable number of foreign contractors (about five) who have an established
base as well as a few local contractors (about four). LCB procedures will
be applied according to Burundian procedures provided that (i) foreign
contractors are not precluded from participating and their registration in
the Registry of Commerce is not required; (ii) no procurement is made on the
basis of selected tendering or direct contracting; (iii) 3 bids at least are
received and bids are opened in public i.e. bidders or their representatives
should be allowed to attend; (iv) no special preference is given to local
bidders in the evaluation of bids; and (v) a provision will be made for
payment of the foreign expenditures whenever applicable. First documents for
LCB will be approved by the Association.   In addition to these, works
estimated to cost about US$ 1.2 million (out of the US$ 15.1 million
mentioned above) will be subdivided into small lots of about US$ 50,000 to
US$ 100,000, which small domestic civil works contractors will execute as
part of field training. These contractors will be prequalified on the basis
of assessed capacity to undertake these works and will be selected through
LCB for which detailed bidding documents will include calculations of
indicative unit prices; the bidders will be asked to bid indicating their
prices in percentage above and below the same with due justification. After
completion of the training works, the successful contractors will be
classified  as  road  construction  contractors  and will be  allowed  to
participate to regular LCB.   The production capacity of the domestic
contractors for equipment-based road works is estimated at about US$ 2
million per year at the end of the project.
2.29      Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies would be grouped
into suitable lots and procured through ICB in general on a year-by-year
basis.   Miscellaneous  items of equipment,  spare parts,  materials  and
suppliers in lots of less than US$ 50,000 and totalling no more than US$
500,000 may be procured by international or local shopping on the basis of
at least three quotations.
2.30      Consultants for technical assistance, studies and supervision will
be selected following the 1981 Bank Group Guidelines; their terms of
reference and conditions of employment will be discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations. Before awarding the fellowships, the Government will
furnish a detailed training program to IDA for approval. The program will
include the qualifications of the candidates, types and costs of training as
well as the train4ng institutions and an indication of assignments to be
given to the trainees on their return to Burundi.



- 30 -
2.31      IDA's prior review of invitations to bid will be limited to
contracts  estimated  to  cost  US$  35,000  equivalent  or  more.    These
undertakings have been agreed during negotiations and are a part of the
covenants of the credit.
G. Disbursement
2.32      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 32.7 million (US$ 43.2 million)
would be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)       85Z of total expenditures for civil works carried out under
contract for resurfacing of paved roads, road upgrading to
paved standards, rehabilitation of coffee roads, regravelling
and grading of earth/gravel roads;
(ii)      1001 of foreign expenditures and 802 of local expenditures for
equipment, vehicles, spare parts, materials and supplies;
(iii)     1002 of foreign and 801 of local expenditures for consultant
services and technical assistance; and
'iv)      1002 of foreign and 80Z of local expenditures for training and
fellowships.
All disbursements will be fully documented, except for contracts costing less
than US$ 35,000 equivalent.   These expenditures would be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs) certified by the project implementation
units (PIUs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by PIUs
and made available for IDA review during supervision missions. In the case
of prefinancing from Government counterpart funds, the reimbursement requests
should not be less than US$ 50,000 equivalent. To ensure prompt availability
of funds for the project, a special account would be established in US
dollars at a banking institution acceptable to IDA, with an initial deposit
of US$ 750,000 to be made by IDA at credit effectiveness, representing about
two months of expenditures for the project. The special account would be
used to pay all expenditures of the project. Requests for replenishment of
the special account would be submitted to IDA each month.
2.33      Disbursements for the access roads to the coffee-washing stations
will be subject to confirmation of an agreement between MAE and MTPDU to
define the role and responsibility of DGR (para. 4.01 (d)) and to the setting
up of appropriate financing mechanisms (coffee cess) for the local funding
of maintenance of these roads (para 4.01 (e)).
2.34      The estimated schedule of disbursements, given below, is based on
the project implementation schedule and the disbursement profile of past
highway projects in the country. It also allows for one year delay from the
end of the physical execution of the project and the last payment to allow
for delays in determining price variations in contracts.



- 31 -
Estifmt-d Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank Group Fiscal Year                         Cumulative Disbursements
and Semester Ending                       at end of Semester     as 2 of rotal
1990
June 30, 1990                                     750                      2Z
1991
December 31, 1990                               1,300                      32
June 30, 1991                                   4,200                     102
1992
December 31, 1991                               7,200                     17S
June 30, 1992                                  12,300                     282
1993
December 31, 1992                              17,500                     412
June 30, 1993                                  22,500                     522
1994
December 31, 1993                              27,500                     642
June 30, 1994                                  31,700                     732
1995
December 31, 1994                              36,100                     842
June 30, 1995                                  40,200                     932
1996
December 31, 1995                              43,200                    10oo
Closing Date: December 31, 1995
H. Accountina. Auditing and Re2orting Reauirements
2.35      Project accounts will be maintained by DGR and DGT in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, to record all project revenues
and expenditures, assets and liabilities. Separate accounts will be kept for
each component and will be available for inspection by the Association during
project supervision.  As DGR's accounting performance has not been fully
satisfactory in the past, technical assistance will be necessary to closely



- 32 -
monitor such accounts. Project accounts including the Special Account and
SOEs will be audited annually in accordance with international auditing
guidelines by independeut auditors acceptable to the Association.   The
auditor's ieport together with the project accounts will be submitted to the
Association not later than six months aftet the end of each fiscal year
(para. 4.01 (h)).  The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report
(PCR) submitted in a form satisfactory to the Association not later than six
months after the closing date (para. 4.01 (i)). The foregoing, detailed in
Annex XV, has been agreed at negotiations and is part of the covenants in
the Credit Agreement.
2.36      Every year, concurrently with the preparation of the annual budget,
DGR will prepare a detailed road maintenance work program for the following
year, taking into consideration the overall maintenance targets set for the
program period and likely budgetary allocations. This program will describe
the type of activities to be carried out by each brigade and by contractors;
indicate the estimated output of the contractors and of the brigades,
equipment utilization, fuel and lubricants, materials and spare parts. To
establish the work program on a sound basis, DGR will introduce an
appropriate permanent road condition inventory system based on the progress
reporting requirements described in Annex XV. Subsequent annual work programs
will be furnished to the Association and other donors for their coments by
October 31 of each year and will be finalized upon determination of the final
budget taking into consideration comments received (para. 4.01 (a)).
2.37      Progress of implementation will be reported by DGR on the basis of
the same indicators used in the preparation of the work program. DGR will
prepare a quarterly Progress Report showing targets and main achievements by
major  activity  and  explaining  significant  discrepancies.    An  annual
implementation report will consolidate this information and provide details
on inputs used in the execution of the program, productivi%y developments and
unit costs of the various activities (Annex XV).
I. Environmental Aspects
2.38      The project will have a positive impact on environment by repairing
road drainage, currently in bad shape, which increases erosion risks.
Otherwise,  improvement and rehabilitation works will follow the existing
alignment and will have little or no effect on current land use. The project
will develop and enforce standards for limiting the potential negative impact
of road works on the physical environment. Technical assistance to DGR will
assist in developing local capacity to review and evaluate the potential
environmental impacts of road works either carried out under contract or by
force account (TORs in Annex VIII) and to design appropriate remedies if
needed. In addition to this, suitable safeguards will be incorporated in
bidding documents aud contracts to minimize potential environmental damage
caused by road works especially regarding drainage facilities, risks of
erosion, compaction of earth roads, treatment of quarries and borrow pits
after construction, anti-erosion plantation and camps and workshops.



- 33 -
[, Poverty Alleviation Aspects
2.39      By improving road conditions In the rural areas and making markets
for agricultural products more easily accessible, the project would have a
beneficial impact on the rural poor through higher farm gate prices (at least
in the medium tenm) and lower prices for inputs and consumer goods. Since
the labor-based routine maintenance is undertaken over the entire network,
largely in low-income areas, the project will contribute to poverty
alleviation in these areas. Finally the increased utilization of local SMEs
in road maintenance operations is expected to substantially increase overall
employment In road activities by a gradual shift from equipment-based
activities to labor-based techniques.



- 34 -
III. ECON(MIC EVALUATION
A. General
3.01      An important part of the general macroeconomic policy of the
Government aims at an adjustment of the economy, reducing import costs and
increr,sing export earnings. The main aim of this is to improve the balance
of trade, which now has to be supported by a substantial inflow of external
aid. Reducing overall transport costs, for external trade as well as for
internal movement of goods and passengers, would have an important role in
this structural change. Other general policy objectives are to ensure better
economic integration of the country and to provide more cost-effective
services by encouraging the private sector through both transport operators
and construction firms.  This would lead to a reduction of Government
expenditures and a more balanced budget. Nevertheless, the overall reduction
of transport costs is potentially the most important of these aims and also
the most directly perceived effect of improved transport infrastructure and
policy.
3.02      The priority for the transport sector in Burundi is to maintain
past investmeats, particularly when the resources available for the sector
are scarce, and to alleviate constraints in the movement, marketing and
export of agricultural produce (mainly coffee). The proposed project has
been designed to meet the above objectives.   The first section of RN3
(Bujumbura-Mutambarat 75 km) has been identified as needin& urgent
rehabilitation whereas the periodic maintenance program for paved roads
(413 km) would allow the saving of greater rehabilitation costs in the
medium-term. In addition, 1,050 km of earth/gravel roads, including about
500 km of coffee roads would be improved and adequate road maintenance would
be carried out on the whole main network (4,100 km). Finally, the gravel
road between Muzinda and Bubax&ja (26.4 km), whose upgrading was studied under
the Fourth Highways Project (Cr. 1583-BU) and found to be economically
justified, would be upgraded to paved standards. The project, including both
road rehabilitation and maintenance works, is expected to yield an overall
ERR of about 32X (see Annex XIV).
3.03      Three features in this transport project are more emphasized than
in the previous highway projects.   One is the setup of a program of
systematic periodic and preventive maintenance of the paved network, the
second is an increased reliance on private contractors for road maintenance
and the third a strong institutional strengthening within both DGR and DGT.
The economic evaluation does not cons;der the last two aspects individually
and separately from the overall evaluation. Nevertheless the institutional
strengthening would provide advantages in addition to those traditionally
measured by the economic evaluation.
B.   Area of Influence of the Project. Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.04      The roads selected for upgrading (26 km), rehabilitation (75 km)
and for improvement (1$050 km) directly serve densely populated areas near



- 35 -
the capital city, in the northern and central parts of the country and the
main coffee-growing areas.   The maintenance program will have a positive
impact on virtually all parts of the country. The main immediate benefit of
the rehabilitation and maintenance program will be its impact in reducing
vehicle operating costs (VOCs). Improved road conditions would also allow
better access to productive areas, provide cheaper and more reliable
transport, arrest deterioration of road conditions and improve DGR's
maintenance capability. Important benefits not quantified in the economic
evaluation include reduced freight damage, accidents and travel time as well
as better access to social and medical facilities.   Except for the two
institutional strengthening components and for basic routine maintenance
operations for which no separate rate of return has been calculated, all the
other project components (covering about 75 Z of the project) have been
subjected to economic analysis.
3.05      The major direct beneficiaries of reduced transport costs will be
the owners and operators of cars, buses and trucks. Since internal freight
transport is essentially free of regulation, it is expected that transport
users and consumers alike would benefit from the resulting reduced transport
costs. Avoiding rapid deterioration will prolong the lives of both vehicles
and roads. Reduced fuel consumption would also result in savings, mostly in
foreign exchange. The Government will also benefit from (i) savings through
its ownership of vehicles and deferred costly reconstruction and repairs, and
(ii) additional foreign exchange earnings with improvement of coffee roads
allowing the country to commercialize and export more fully-washed coffee at
better prices.   Lastly, the increased utilization of local SMEs in road
maintenance activities is expected to substantially increase the overall
employment in road activities.
C.   Economic Analysis of the Project
3.06      For upgrading to paved standards of a gravel road, rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance (resurfacing) of paved roads and for rehabilitation
of earth/gravel roads (except for 230 km of main roads financed by AGCD which
will be determined by a study scheduled to start in January 1990 and for
coffee roads), all road sections have been analyzed individually. Each one
of the other components has been analyzed as a whole.
3.07      The economic analysis of the main road program is based on an
assessment of costs and benefits "with" and "without" the proposed works.
Both "with" and "without" project cases assume basic routine maintenance is
adequately carried out. The paved roads cases take progressive deterioration
of the road surface into account, resulting in an increase in VOCs (though
at a slower pace in the "with" project case).   The earth/gravel roads
analysis assumes the current poor condition of the road wouid remain the same
in the "without" project case and that the project will upgrade the road
condition and then protect it against further deterioration, reducing VOCs
by 10 to 252 depending on the present road condition and terrain.   Only
savings in VOCs have been quantified for the analysis, except for the coffee
roads (para. 3.08), following the general methodology of the HDM-III model.
Benefits not quantified such as savings in time and reductions in potential
freight damage represent substantial benefits which, if quantified, would



- 36 -
increase  the  rates  of  return.    The  economic  evaluation  therefore
underestimates the expected rates of return.
3.08      The economic analysis of the coffee roads is based on a different
methodology. It assumes that in the "without" project case the production
of fully-washed coffee would be 502 lower and more lower-grade coffee would
be exported instead than in the "with" project case. The benefits are then
estimated as the additional earnings provided by "fully-washed" coffee as
compared to lower-grade coffee on the international market. Due to the lack
of data on potential non coffee-related traffic for the coffee roads, no
savings in vOCs have been quantified in the analysis. These savings would
represont substantial benefits which, if quantified, would increase the ERR
of this component, which is already at 202.
3.09      In 1988, traffic volumes were mainly in the 200-1,000 vpd range for
the paved network and in the 20-100 vpd range for the earth/gravel network.
Traffic growth has been estimated at 42 p.a. for the road sections on the
main  road system,  on the basis of past traffic,  vehicle fleet growth
(Annex I-4), fuel consumption (Annex I-5) and population growth. However,
in the sensitivity analysis, a growth rate of 32 was applied.  For three
components, generated traffic is expected to develop the first year after
completion of works, providing an additional 15% traffic growth for the road
to be upgraded, 42 for earth/gravel roads to be rehabilitated and 22 for
roads to be regravelled.
3.10      The economic analysis was carried out with costs in 1989 prices,
net of taxes and duties. It was carried out on a 20-year period for the new
paved road, a 15-year period for rehabilitation as well as for resurfacing,
a 6-year period for regravelling and a 3-year period for patching and
grading. The costs included in the economic evaluation comprise civil works,
supervision and 10% physical contingencies.
3.11      The cost/benefit analysis which is detailed in Annex XIV and based
upon the above assumptions shows that the proposed project is economically
justified. The ERR for rehabilitation of the first section of RN3 is about
382 and the combined ERR for resurfacing of the paved roads is about 50Z with
the lowest ERR fur an individual section at 352 while the patching component
is expected to yield a 512 ERR.  The combined ERR for rehabilitation of
earth/gravel roads is expected to be in the 202 range (20Z for the coffee
roads) with the lowest ERR for an individual section at 102 while
regravelling is expected to yield a 27Z ERR and grading 492. The ERR for the
road to be paved is expected to be about 152. Various sensitivity tests have
been carried out, with returns ranging from 15 to 472 for the various
components when expected traffic growth is lowered to 3% p.a. and investment
costs increased by 102. For coffee roads, a decrease of 202 in the expected
benefits would result in a ERR decreasing from 202 (para . 3.08) to 122,
savings in VOC still not considered. For the road to be paved, a decrease of
2J 2 in the expected benefits (e.g. an expected generated traffic of 52
instead of 152 and an expected traffic growth of 32 instead of 7Z) and an
increase of the investment of 102 would result in an ERR of 10.22.



- 37 -
D.  Risks
3.12      While the project is designed to reduce as much as possible risks
associated with implementation, the possibility nevertheless exists that
implementation could be delayed due to the lack of potential contractors to
carry out the works to be contracted out. However this risk is minimized by
the provision of support to the SMEs through the project.   Other risks
involve the p2ssible shortage of local resources for maintenance which to,the
extent possible could be prevented through adequate allocations of resources
in the three-year rolling PEP (para. 4.01 (a)).



- 38 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      At negotiations, a draft statement of sector policy (Annex XVI) was
i         presented by the Government to IDA and the following actions and arrangements
have been discussed and agreed upon:
|               (a)  the Government will give priority to maintenance rather than new
construction in allocating funds to the transport sector and
especially to the road subsector (para. 1.36); the three-year
investment and maintenance program (i.e. Public Expenditure
Program) for the transport sector will be updated and submitted
annually to IDA for approval; IDA will also review the economic
viability of all new transport projects exceeding US$ 2 million
equivalent prior to the decision on their inclusion in the three-
year program being made; in the third quarter of each fiscal year,
the Government will consult with IDA on the budget allocations for
the transport sector for the following year (para. 2.24); budget
allocations for the road sector in 1990 will be at least US$ 5.2
million equivalent in 1989 terms; the amount will not be lower in
real terms in subsequent years (para. 1.38); in case these
requirements are not fulfilled for a specific year, the level of
credit funds to be made available for force account operations for
that year would be adjusted to take account of the resulting
estimated absorptive capacity of DGR.
(b)  local funds to be made available to DGR for road operations except
civil servants' salaries will be channeled to a project account
opened in the Central Bank to be replenished quarterly which will
be used to provide counterpart funding of the project (para. 2.24);
(c)  a Road Planning Unit and a Control Unit will be created within DGR
with a permanent legal status; two and three Burundian counterparts
will be appointed to the units respectively (para. 2.14 to 2.16);
(d)  an agreement between MAE and NTPDU will define the role and
responsibility of DGR for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
coffee roads (para. 2.11 and 2.33);
(e)  the Government will put in place adequate funding mechanisms for
the coffee roads including local counterpart funding for
rehabilitation and total funding for maintenance; this funding will
be channelled through a special account to be established and to
be managed by DGR; for 1990 the corresponding amount should be no
less than US$ 350,000 equivalent; the amount will be adjusted
appropriately in subsequent years to take into account the unit
costs and the extension of the network of coffee roads (para. 2.11,
2.24 and 2.33);
(f)  procurement proc'edures for works, goods and services and award of
fellowships financed under the proposed project (para. 2.27 to
2.31);



- 39 -
(g) revising annually the cost recovery mechanism for road users
charges to cover the cost of routine and periodic maintenance of
roads, including revising the fuel taxation and prices (para.
1.37); based on a study of the conditions of petroleum imports,
Government will (i) take measures to increase competition among
importers and (ii) subsequently revise the cost recovery mechanism
for road use to provide the budget with a minimum level of
resources of US$ 5.2 million per year (para. 1.38);
(h) the project accounts including the Special Account will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the Government
will ensure the submission to IDA of the project's accounts
together with the auditor's report within six months after the end
of the fiscal year (para. 2.35);
(i) the Government and IDA shall agree on progress reporting
requirements and on the submission of a Project Completion Report
(PCR) in - format suitable to IDA no later than six months after
the project closing date (para. 2.35);
(j) the Government will a) put into operation the existing weight-
scales on RN1 and RN5 and monitor axle loads to prepare the basis
for further dialogue regarding regulations within the NTCA; and b)
introduce mobile weight-scales to monitor trucking movements (para.
1.31);
(k) foreign currency allocation for transport operation by BRB to
transport operators should progressively be made on the basis of
economic criteria (para. 1.15);
(1) a revised performance contract suitable to IDA should be set up for
OTRACO, including a schedule and program for tariff revision and
liberalization; tariffs of private operators in passenger transport
should also be liberalized simultaneously (para. 1.29);
(m)  a plan for privatization of OTRABU suitable to IDA should be
adopted by the Government before presentation to the Board and be
made effective without delay according to a schedule to be defined
in agreement with IDA (para. 1.30);
(n) the port of Bujumbura and the shipyard if built shall be operated
according to principles to be agreed upon by the Government and IDA
(para. 1.19);
(o) customs clearance facilities in Kayanza and Gitega in addition to
Bujumbura will be commissioned by December 31, 1990 and December
31, 1991 respectively (para. 1.15); and
(p) tariff liberalization for transport of goods by road and tariff
revision for transport by lake should be implemented by mid 1990
(para. 1.28 and 1.18).



- 40 -
4.02      The Government has already taken the following measures:
(a) submitted to IDA the statement of sectoral policy agreed during
negotiations (see Annex XVI) (para. 4.01);
(b) approved a PEP for the transport sector and road subsector for
1990-92 acceptable to IDA (para. 4.01 (a)) and made appropriate
budgetary allocations for 1990;
(c) taken measures to give incentives to importers of petroleum
products to use the most economic modes of supply;
(d) approved revisions of OTRACO's passenger transport tariffs and
adopted a schedule for tariff liberalization for passenger
transport (para. 4.01 (1));
(e) submitted to IDA a draft directive to BRB to clarify the role of
BRB in foreign exchange allocation to the transport sector (para.
4.01 (k));
(f)  adopted a privatization plan for OTRABU (para. 4.01 (m)); and
(g)  decided on operations of the port of Bujumbura according to
principles agreed upon at negotiations (para. 4.01 (n)).
4.03      The following will be conditions for credit effectiveness:
(a) implementation of a cost recovery mechanism to recover from road
users the costs of periodic and routine maintenance, including the
implementation of a taxation and pricing policy for petroleum
products acceptable to IDA (para. 4.01 (g));
(b) appropriate budget allocation for road activities for DGR in 1990
(para. 4.01 (a)) and initial deposit credited to project account
(para. 4.01 (b));
(c)  admendment to performance contract between borrower and OTRACO
dated December 28, 1988, liberalization of tariffs for passenger
transport of the private sector (para. 4.01 (1)) and of tariffs for
goods transport by road and revision of lake transport tariffs
(para. 4.01 (p));
(d) appointment of local counterpart staff to the Road Planning Unit
and Road Control Unit (para. 4.01 (c));
4.04      The following will be conditions for the disbursements of specific
provisions of the credit:
(a) agreement between MAE and MTPDU for management of coffee roads and
setting up a mechanism to finance their maintenance and local
counterpart   for   their   rehabilitation   before   commencing
disbursements on the coffee roads component (para. 4.01 (d) and
(e)); and



-41-
(b) agreement by the Association on and implementation by Government
of the recommendations of the sectoral studies to be financed under
the project before commencing disbursements on the transport
investment component (par-. 2.03).
4.05      Subject to the above terms, the proposed project qualifies for an
IDA Credit of SDR 32.7 million (USS 4392 million equivalent), on standard IDA
terms



Annex I-1
Transport Sector Proeoct
DISTRIBUTION OF INTERNATIONAL TUAFFIC BY ROUTE
(thousande of tons)
1986    1901    1922    19iU       10614    lN"      196      106?     1966   (196)
t                IIPORTS                 I  101.1   165.9   299.9   M2.2   216.6   231.4   229.1   223.1   219.7 t 1 9.96
I                                        I                                                                                I
I   Northern Corridor (Mesho Road)       I   36.5    63.6    68.6   6O.4    08.6    0.5    46.7              4.3    d9.9 1 27.71
of which :         POL I   18.4    31.4    29.1    86.0    4E.0    32.7    28.7    45.4    43.9 1
Dry Cargo I   17.J    $2.5    64.4    40.9    41.8    *6.0    ff.1   1U.9    17.9 1
I                                        I                                                                                Il
I   Central Corridor (Tanzania)          I   91.2    C6.0    65.0    54.2    $1.3    57.7    94.7    77.3    74.4 1  WO.
I       OSh-Kigoma Route (Lake/Rail)     I   96.5    64.7    59.4    52.1    57.9    78.9    *3.0    61.7    61.9 1 29.11
l                of which 2          POL I   18.9       8.2      4.9      6.4      1.4    11.6    1J.4       C.2      4.21 
Dry Cargo 1   71.9    51.5    66.5    C1.5    SO.5    67.0    60.6    61.4    60.6 I 9S
OSM-Icske Route (Road)           I    9.4      1.9      4.4      2.1      8.4      6.6    11.7    10.7   1l.5 1  4.6X
I~                                  I                                                                                I
I   Airport                              1    2.9       2.6      3.4      3.9     2.3      3.7      3.4      3.2      3.5 I  1.86
I                                        I I
I   Other Routes  1/                     I   36.6    46.7   6U.8    91.7    62.1    76.5    61.2                          I 36.91
of which :         POL l    2.8       *.9      0.5      1.6      9.7      1.4     4.5      0.7      4.31 
I                              Dry Cargo I   34.8    09.6    60.3        W.?    61.4    75.1    76.7    6n.6    76.7 I
I                                        I                                                                                I
EXPORTS  2/                1                              3.1     *1   48.5 C        .7    56J 2 2    .9 I
I                of which         Coffee 1                               24.0    20.7    34.1    36.7 J      7.1    25.0 t
Source: EPS
BNo, Dujua_ra, February and July 1969
1/ Mainly the Southern Corridor lako rout, through Mpulungu (Zambei).
2/ Most of the exports take the 0S5-Ki9gom route.



_ 43 -
Annex 1-2
DURUNDI
Transort Sector Prolect
TRAFFIC IN THE PORT OF BUJWIURA
(thousands of tons)
10o   1961   1982   198 1964   1935   1906  1967   1989  (1966)
I.  IWIT
Zmports/Tanzanlt     99.4  66.9  67.6  69.0  71.7  161.1   91.0  609.9  68.1    44.6X
Imports/Zembia        15.9  26.6  27.6  27.7  41.8  62.6  61.6  74.1  63.6   46.4X
Zaporta/Zair.        18.1  19.Ot  13.9  29.8  17.1  16.1  26.6  18.2   12.9    9.1X
Total                116.4  107.1  114.0  116.0  1IS.0  179.9  181.9  157.2  141.7  166.O1
nx. sS
Exports/Tenzxnto      81.4  84.6  29.6   86.4  88.9  86.o  87.6  S8.9  87.4   97.61
Exports/Zambia        6.:    6.6   o.o   0.2   0.6   0.2   6.6    6.5   6.7    1.91
Exports/Zair,         0.1   0.3   6.2   0.0   6.0   8.4    1.8    6.6   6.3 8          .71
Total                 81.5   84.9  29.2  80.5  88.9  86.5  89.2  81.4  83.4  166.61
ZU. TOTAL 
Tanzania             126.7   96.4  96.6  96.4  165.6  137.1  126.9  166.7  126.5   55.6X
Zambia                16.9  26.6  27.6  27.9  41.8  62.8  06.6  74.0  66.5   86.9X
Z ire                 18.2  26.0  19.1  20.8  17.1  16.5  26.4  18.2  18.1    7.8x
GRAND TOTAL          149.6  142.0  148.8  146.6  168.9 216.4  221.0  166.0  16O.1  166.6X
Annual Gorowh Rat        -  -5.3X  0.9X  2.3X  11.1  82.MM   2.11 -14.71  -4.65
Source: EPS, Sujuemura, f bruary 1989



- 44 -
Annex I-3
Trvansort Sector PKro_ict
I. TRFFIC OF AIR BURUINI 1/i
PassenAer Traffic
Dooortutt     Arrival
1964          260,4             1,791
19U           1,11             1,661
low          2,685             1,4W
1967          2,288             1,961
Friaght Traffic (tons)  2/
10o             201.6            278.2
1961            296.6            295.0
1962-1967             -                -
1967                             227.;
II. TRAFFIC AT BUJMIUR  INTURATIONUL AIRPORT  3/
IAWOERTRAFFIC               I    PREISIT TRAFFIC (tons)   I
I                    Totl       I                     Total  I TOTAL  I
I Arrval  Departure Passwger. I  Arrival  Departure Froight I LANDDGS I
162 i 28,967      24,656      43,618 1   4,649      3,682    6,181 1   1,200 1
1968 1 21,764     21,884      48,655  I   4,645     2,074    7,519 1   1,446 I
1964 1 19,6C      10,601      36,141 1   6,281      8,201    6,482 1   1,892 I
1065 I 26,202     20,379      40,681 I   6,464      8,648    0,647 I   1,259 I
1066 I 22,682     22,874      44,406 I   5,478      8,336    3,660 I   1,461 2
1067 I 28,711     24,947      48,658 I   4,226      2,166    6,396 I   1,625 I
Annual Growth Rate (1986-1987) a     90.5   Pasengor Traffic
Annual Growth Rate (1906-1987) *   -15.09  Freight Traffic
Source: SNES (Service National dee Etudes et Stotiatiques), Ministry of Planning
Air Burundi, Bujumbura, February 1969
1/   Only two Twin-Otters have been operating since 1983.
2/ All Air Burundi freight traffic ceased in 1982 (with the end of
operation of the Caravel).  However, the company recently started (May
1988) leasing space on Air France and SABENA flights from Europe to
Bujumbura.
3/   International flights only.



- 45 -
Annex 1-4
BURUNDI
Trauort S_ctor Prolect
STATISTICAL }MTOR VEHICLB  LET 1982-1987    1/
(units)
Annual
Growth Rate
VEHICLE TYPE                    19t2   1901   1914  165  1 J    1ME7    (1902-1907)
Care 7,6   7,570   6,28   6,795  9,571  10,56                                      6.631
Four-Wheel Orlve Vohicloe        62  1,992  1,140  1,88    1,542  1,694           18.73
Ptik-upe and Station Wagon*    2,849  2,e66   2,915  8,155   8,446  8,615         10.1U
Trucks                         1,228   1.861   1,51    1,651   1,68    1,5W9       5.411
Buses                          1,287  1,519  1,6e9   1,647  1,909   2,276         12.43
Tractors and Spectal Vehicles    28U    254    265    278    26         32         5.6
TOTAL                         12,967  14,849 15,66O  17,69 16,07S  20,284          9.83
Ot whitch  privately owned  11,697  12,716  18,721 14,9JJ 16,819 17,577         6.6x
publicly owned   1,40   1,68    1,944  2,129  2,854  2,067          12.7X
Annual Growth Rate                 -  10.7X   9.2X   J 6.0   96.6       .43
Source: SNES (Service National des Etudeb Statietiquo.), Ministry of Planning, February 19J9
1/   Except military, vehicles.



- 46 -
Annex 1-5
BURUNDI
Trea.aort Sector Pro4ect
I . FUEL IR!ORTS
(millions of lit-r.)
Annual
Growth Rate
lossS 06          1016     11       1o7      9 3m  (1988-19631
Premium Gosolino              16.35    10.3"    21.99    22.12    24.83    26.58       7.65
Reoular GasolIne               2.94     1.12    *.98      9.85     9.09      .9          -
Diesel Fuol                   28.76    22.46    24.78   21.29   24.54    22.94        -4.71
TOTAL                         46.39    48.47    46.75    44.66    43.90    49.47       1.0X
Annual Growth Rate                -    -8.65     7.61   -4.51      9.71     1.01
Sour e: SEP (Soc6t6 d'Cntrepoease Pftrolier au Burundi)
FINA/BP, Bujuaburs, February 1999
II. FUEL PRICES 1J
(FBu per liter)
Premium aseoline      Dies l Fuel
NmO V    DSM 3/    NBO     DSM
FOT Nairobi or FOB Kigome              26.74    84.96      27.16   86.68
Transport Nairobi/Kigoma-Bujuabura     27.66     0.9.      27.60    1.02
Coulage and Insurance                   9.45    ,.26        0.46    0.25
CIF Xuuburf                            54.69    86.97      55.11   88.19
Import dust" and other taxes            4.11     8.27       2.51    1.74
Road Fund                               S.00     6.00       5.00    6.00
Other Funds                            24.48    46.81      17.61   82.29
Overhead Coete                          1.77     1.65       1.77    1.87
Wholesle Profit                         7.09    10.00       7.00  1."9
Wholosale Price  *                     97.0e    97.00      89.09   69.00
Retail Profit                          8a.39     3.00       8.39   83.0
Retail Price                          13o.3   lo.3        92.30   92.00
-          Ma_u**
Source: Ministry of Coe_erce and Industry, Bujuabura, February 1989
1/ As of February 1989.
This price structure is being applied since July 2, 1988.
2~I NBO means imported by truck from Nairobi.
3/    DSM means imported by rail and lake through Kigoma from Dar-es-Salaam.



- 47 -
Annex 1-6
BURUNDI
Trensoort Sector Pro1-ct
ESTIMATID ROAD TRAFFIC VOLUitS
(vehicles per day - vpd)
Cumulative Traffic   Averazi  Daily Traffic
TVD- of Road            L*nath          (t)                    (vpd)
(km)                       Maximum  Average  Minimum
National Roads (RN)
Paved            1,000          682          2,500       350      100
Unpaved            950          812            150        75        5
Provincial Roads (RP)   2,150            98S            100       40         0
Local Roads              2.200          10O             10        5         0
TOTAL                    6,300
Sourest DGR, Bujumbura, February 1989.



- 48 -
Annex I1
BURUNDI
Transport Sector Prolect
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE ROAD NHTWORK
(km)
Classification  1/        Road Surface Type  21
PROVINCE
RN      RP      RC       REV     GRA      TER     Total
I. WEST REGION
1. Bubanza          82       57      65        21       61     122       204
2. Bujumbura        166     127     154        166      17    .264       447
3. Cibitok-         197      57      95        190       0     159       349
4. Mursmvya         108     234     226         79      29     460       568
Sub-total    553     475      540       456     107   1,005      1,568
II. EAST REGION
5. Cankuzo          105      64     169          0      53     285       338
6. Gitega          .231     133     235         74     157     368       599
7. Karuzi           67      165     160         0       67     325       392
8. Ruyigi           169     192     115          0      86     390       476
Sub-total    572     554      679        74     363   1,368      1,805
III. NORTH REGION
9. Kayanza           78     189     117         78       0     306        384
10. Kirundo          63      186     130          0      84     295       379
11. Muyinga          110     143     Z'.&        38      39     389       466
12. Ngozi           125      154     136        72       30     313        415
Sub-total    376     672      596       188     153.  1,303      1,644
IV. SOUTH REGION
13. Bururi          198      258     134        127     264     199       590
14. Makamba          127      66     154        89       56     202       347
15. Rutana           123     125      86         77      20     237        334
Sub-total    448      449     374       293     340      638     1,271
GRAND TOTAL.    1,949   2,150   2,189       1,011     963   4,314     6,288
S total mileage   31.0%   34.2%   34.8%       16.1%   15.3Z   68.6%    100.0%
Source: DGR, Bujumbura, June 1988
1/   RN means National Roads, RP Provincial Roads and RC Local Roads.
2/   REV means paved roads, GRA gravel roads and TER earth roads.



BURtWI                                              Annex 111-1
Transport Sector Project
EXPENDITURES IN THE NHIUAY SURSECTOR
(F9u milion)
-------    Actual Expenditure e - - --         ---- )   Pla ed _ upoediturou   (-I
1985        l966        1967        19o        1969          19o          1991
(I)   Recurrent Budget                                97.9        65.9         96.4       119.O       110.2         121.7         125.4
(ii)  Investment Budget                              618.2        268.6       172.0       911.2       40.7          756.8         756.9
(ITl) Road Fund                                      208.8       2MS.9        216.1           --                        -             -
Total Internal Financing                              919.9       U44.4       666.C       929.6       6U.9          673.0         376.2
of which:    maintenance        4U9.1        415.9       467.1        479.6       515.4         716.8         749.7
rehabilitation           C.6         6.6         6.6       212.1       147.2          142.8         125.1
Ratio Maintenance/National Budget           1.7S         1.75        2.6S        1.60        1.85          1.75          1.75
(iv)  External Financing                           1,827.?      1,796.9    2,016.8      2,231.2     4,018.8 2/   3,720.6 2/    6,932.6 2/
of which:    maintenance 1/      185.0       212.6       822.        666.9      1,124.0       1,866.7       1,545.9
rehabilitation           0.0         9.J         6.0       825.6     1,748.0       8,546.7        2,219.C
CRAND TOTAL                       2,247.6     2,189.4     8,296.9    8,211.9       6,197.2       9,604.6       6,969.J
of which:    maintenance         644.1       627.9       779.8      1,181.6     1,689.4       2,625.6       2,296.6
rehabilIt  tion          9.J         6.0         6.6       587.6    1,699.6        J,6JO.         2,SU .6
Ratio
(Maintenance * Rohabilitation)/Crand Total           24.25       26.9S        28.65       52.6S       07.95         69.5iS        67.6S
1j Including technical assistance.
2/ The inci ase in 1989-1991 is "minly caused by road rehabilitatioa and construction operations finanoed by grant from EEC.
Source: OCR, Buju burs, February 1969
Debt and International Finance Division, World Bank, May 1969



BURUNDI                                               Annex 111-2
Transport Sector Project
EXPENDITURES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR (ROADS EXCUUED)
(Flu million)
------->  Actual Expenditures                  I <--) Planned ExpendItures (-I
1986       1906       1too       190        1066        1981         1991
745.6       47.5      4581.2   1,388.6    2,533.4    2,181.5       1,1096.
(i)   Recurrent Budget                               347.2      868.8      872.9      46U.1       1.         474.2       496.4
(it)  Investment Budgot                              210.0       37.8       69.7       96.6       276.8       $21.6       163.6
Total Internal Financing                             557.2      446.1      442.6 4     7h.9       7".         7095.9       60.6
of which public enterprise        n.e.       n.e.       n.c.      126.9       115.9        91.J        70.6
(I;i) External Financing                            1U8.1         1.4       10.6      727.7    1,795.4    1,364.7         539.2
of which public onterprise.       n..        n..        Die.       m.nn       410.2       361.3       337.2
GRAND TOTAL      746.8      407.6      465.2   1,866.6    2,563.4    2,181.5    1,1998.
of which public enterprises        9. 9.4 0    0.6                126.0       525.2      452.8        467.2
Source: National Budgete (1986-1988)
Debt and Intornatibnal Finance Division, World Bank, Deceber 1066
DGR, Bujumbura, February 1989
.0



JUQK                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Amon, 111-8
Transport Sector Project
TRAWIIRT r SiR DEW vs EXTEUNAL PULIC DET
(USI million)
--- --------- >    ActuJal    C- ----- --l                                     Planned--- -
1982    1968    194    lUIS        196      1980    lUS      IgW      1it0    1991    low       is"        16
I. Outstanding Tranaport Sector Debt
Roads                                   42       60       72      87      10       139      la?      1U0      174     172      US                  140
Port *nd Lake Transport                  0        0        0       0        0        0        2        *       12      17       to       n1        t1
Civil Aviation and Air Burundi          10       is       to      20       21       28       20       19       17       s       is        a          a
TOTAL      Ss       78        s      107      124      1C2     180      19       20m      204     201      l          Id 18
Ratio Transport Sector Dobt/                26.1i    25.5      1 2.41   25.71   28.51   22.8E    22.95   25.511 #    .65   2.8.6    24.06   246         3 5.1T
Eaternal Public Debt
1I. Traneport Sector Debt Service
Roads                                  1.1      1.5      2.0      1.8     3.5      4.9      5.7     5.2       7.1     8.1      *.8      8.2       0.8
Port and Lake Trneport                 0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1     0.2      0.4      0.6      0.6      1.1       0.9
Civil Aviation and Air wBrundi         0.4      0.8      1.1      1.5     2.9      8.2      8-.      1.6     2.7      2.6      2.S      2.8       2.8
of which                                                                                                                                                                         U
Principal                              0.?      1.0      1.1      1.4     8.6      4.0      8.8     4.       6.4      7         .0     0.4         6.2 
Intoreat                               0.9      1.1     2.1      2.0      2.9      8.2      a.6     8.0      8.6      8.6      8.8     8.2        2.S
TOTAL      1.8     2.1      8.1      8.8      6.5     0.0      9.2      *.8    10.8    11.4    11.8    11.6          11.8
Zource. Debt and Internationel inance Division. World S nk, dec.1966



SURUIPI                                     Anex 111-4
Transport Soctor Project
PllLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM FOR THE HIGHWY SU1SECTOt (lon-1991)
(FBu million)
19im       1#9         190        1991
A. Recurrent Expenditures
1. Fourth Highway Project                        868.6      189.2         9.9        9.J
2. Transport Sector Progrm                          .9        6.9    1,8U9.6    1,467.4
D. Capital Expenditure
1. Fourth High,y Project                         618.2    1,181.9         9.9        9.9
2. Transport Sector Progrm                         9.0       6.6   21,7.*         1,766.6
8. Rehabilitation RNI                             14.         I 6.    1,622.6    1,872.6
4. Rehabilitation RN2             _.6                       419.6       216.8         9.8
S. Rehabilitation Urban Rods Dujmbura              0.6      9C6.9    1,249.C        $87.9
6. Construction RN18 Rugombo-ayanao            1,469.9      9077.       602.5         6.6
7. Construction Access Road to R_eura plant        6.6      846.6         9.9        9.6
6. Construction RNS (Nyanza Lac-Butmbera)        867.7      211.9         6.0        8.J
9. Construction RHO (luyinga-Iobero)               5.6        9.2       766.5       M.$
16. Construction Mo"  Road                         17.0     11.9    1,866.6    1,92.
11. Bridge Construction                           426.0      461.9       247.6        6.6
12. Feanbillty Studies                              C.9      122.4        97.1        9.9
Total    8,211.9    5,197.2    9,664.6      *,9".
FINDNCING PUN
Governmet       929.6      568.9       9112.       96U.9
IDA      6t1.4    1,197.5    1,192.9    1,265.1
Nt9 0.0                81.0        9.6         6.6
EDF       36.4    1,2.       5,462.1    8,161.6
AfOB        0.6        15.6      541.4       114.9
6ADEA      175.8       167.0       mc.#         6.6
ADF      681.5       519.        55.9        52.1
OPEC      889.6       125.9        O.6         .99
AGCD         .0         9.6      2.6         245.4
FAC        0.6         9.9       72.8        76.6
FRO      89.$        85.6       449.5       2n.7
Italy        9.9 *.               519.6       441.9
Saudi Arabia      22.9       212.9         0.6        0.9
Komelt Fund       54.2      In.6          9.6        9.9
Japan, Italy, Opec (euipmet)         9.9         6.6      151.8       819.7



Annex IV
RUNDI
Transport Sector Project
Revenues from Road User Charge
(1969 FBe million)
1966     "191     1902     196      1964     196      106      1967     1#6       1#9
1. National Road Fund   1/          275.9   814.7   246.6   286.1    236.9   247.9   245.9   285.9   288.6    2J6.9 o
2. Border Transit Vehicle Tax        17.5     16.4    26.9    28.4        27.8     82.5    29.8    19.S       18.6     66.6 *
a. Vehicle Registration Tax 2/       C7.6     U6.      67.9    128.6    19t.8   166.0   114.6    111.8   10$.7    146.6 0
4. Import duties and taxes  8/      616.7    676.4    713.1    594.2   541.6    686.6   766.4   746.1   4J6.9   961.6
Gasoline                     106.2   123.7    164.1      94.4    11.1    112.6       69.6    190.8    96.1      96.9
DieseI Fuel                   812.     42.6    U8.2      s6.7     6.9   s6.6    44.4    46.2           89.6     J6.9
Lubrifiants                   19.1     10.8    14.6    29.6    17.0    26.0    40.4    26.6    46.6    49.6
Vehicleo                     269.6   296.2   887.2   215.1   262.4   211.4   276.1   *81.8   446.1   54.4
Spare Parts                  122.4   125.2   185.2   126.0   121.1    147.8   140.9   155.4   149.1    167.1
Tires n4.4    64.9    96.7    66.7    42.8   6U.5   111.1    78.9    68.2                                       76.9
S. Technical Inspection               2.8      2.6      4.4      5.4      4.5      8.9       2.2      8.8      8.0      8.0
6. Special Fuel Fund   4/               -        -        -   88.5$   66.0   445.8  1,89.6   *29.4    791.0   6009.6 
TOTAL           970.0 1,U.6     1,660.4  1,822.1  1,021.4  1,478.6  t,497.7  1,96.6  1,0O.5  1,989.6 |
-      -       - w ~      -       -n    -num   asmem                 m
Annual Growth Rat                       -     16.63    -1.515 2C.9    22.63    -.13    6.53   -1.43            2.63    -2.43
Average Annual Growth Pnte (1904-106)          6 5.23
o budget previsions
* staff estimates
1/ Flu 5.6 per liter
2/ Tariffs were increased In January 19U.
8/ Import duties and taxes are 263 for spre parts, 830 for car ires, 215 for bus and trck tires,
163 for buse and trucks, d  U  or 1665 for care according to hos pwe (ffective Augut 190).
4/ The tax was creted ln Jue 19U raggig between FrR  10.48 an  Flo 84.61 per liter of gasoline ead
and betwen Fbu 11.61 nd FS. 216.2  per liter of diesel fuel depending  n the iportng route.
Source: St vice Etudes et Statistiqu", Central Bank
Directiora Gnrale des Dooane  (Custom), Ministry of Flns_
Ministry of Com_erco *J Industry
Service de  Trasport* do Burundi (51)



- 54 -
Annex V
BURUNDI
Treuasort Sector Prolect
RUS!BLITATION OF EARTHIGRAVEL ROADS
List of Roads
Designation                                                        Lentth
1. Eouiuaent-Daaed Works by Force Account 1l
RN9 (ex-RIG9)        : Bubanaa-Ndora                               56 km
RP112 (ex-RP32)      s RN2-Kibimba-Mwaro                           31 km
RP103                : Carrofour Gakara-Ruhororo                   28 km
RC127                : RNK-Hubimbi-Musinda-RN9                     16 km
RN15 (ex-RP57)       s Ngosi-Rwanda Border                         23 km
RN19 (ex-RIG13)      t Cankuso-Muyinga                             58 km
RP307 (ex-RP51)      t Bukeyc-Gahombo                              39 km
RP115-211           :RN7-Vyuya-Nyangwa-RN16                        30 km
RP312 (ex-RP64)      s Ntega-Nyange                                24 km
RP451                aMakyaso-Mpinga-Nyana- Lac                    30 km
Total Forc Account                 335 km
2. Labor-Based Works Under Contract 21
RP201                s Gakoke (RN12)-PSTP Mubuga                   17 km
IP 116 (ex-RP33)    s RN18-Gisozi-RN7                              30 km
RP304 (ex-RP52)       R Nl-Kayanza-Muhanga-Ruyange                 38 km
RPIlO                t RN2-Muramvya-RNl                             8 km
Other                                                             137 km
Total Under Contract               230 km
1/   Rehabilitation works by force account will be partly financed by IDA
(252 of costs). All the roads in this category have been submitted
individually to economic analysis.
21  AGCD will finance 852 of labor-based rehabilitation under contract.
All the roads in this category will be identified under a study financed
by AGCD starting January 1990 (in collaboration with the Road Planning
Unit) which will take into account specific conditions of labor-based
works in addition to economic analysis. However four roads have already
been identified as economically feasible. The study will also include
the coffee roads (to take into account specific conditions of labor-
based works). The final program will be submitted to IDA for approval.



-55 -
Annex VI
NURUNDI
Tranauort Sector Pro1ect
PERIODIC MAINTiMANCE OF PAVED ROADS
List of Roads 1J
Desianation                                    Longth
RN3s Mutambara-Nyanza Lac  2J                   47 km
RN4: Bujumbura- Zaire Border                    13 km
MNts Rugombo-Luhwa                               9 km
RN6: Kayanza-Ngozi-Muyange-Muyinga             112 km
RN7: Bujumbura-Kato                            129 km
RN8: Gitega-Gitaba-Gihofi                       90 km
RN9: Bujumbura-Muzinda                          13 km
TOTAL                             413 km
i/  AfDB will finance RN3 and RN6 (a total of 159 km), and IDA RN4, RN7, RN8
and RN9 (a total of 245 kn).
2/   AfDB will finance the rehabilitation of 75 km of RN3.



- 56 -
Annex VII
BURUNDI
Transuort Sector Pro ect
LIST OF ROAD EOUIPNENT ACQUISITION
UNIT PRICE   TOTAL COST
EQUIPMENT                        QUANTITY    (USS '000)   (USS '000)
Dump Truck                              15            52           780
Water-Tank Truck                         4            52           208
Trailer Truck                           2            116           232
Flatbed Truck                           3             58           174
Car  1/                                20             13           260
Motorcycle  11                          15             2            30
Mechanical Shovel                        7            58           406
Compactor                               10            52           520
Compressor                              10            16           160
Mechanical Broom                         2            13            26
Generating Set                          6             13            78
Vibrating Plate                          8            13           104
Dismountable Housing                    18            10           180
Lift Tractor  I/                         3            42           126
Removable Tank  1/                     20             19           380
Mobile Home                              2            32            64
Bulldozer (D6)                          6             90           540
Grader                                  11            77           847
Concrete Mixer                           1             6             6
Motor Pump                               5             8            40
Hand Compactor  I/                     15             12           180
TOTAL COST                                                       5,341
Spare Parts (252 of total cost)                                  1,335
GRAND TOTAL SPARE PARTS INCLUDED                                 6,676
1/   Item financed by IDA.



_ 57 -                         Annex VIII
BURUNDI
Tranagort Sector Prolect
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR MANAGWIENT OF ROAD OPERATIONS
AND TRAINING IN DGR
O4tlina Terms of Reference
Oblectives
1.        The objectives of the technical assistance to DGR are to assist
DOR in:
i)   accounting, financial and personnel management;
ii)  procurement of equipment, spare parts and mat-rials needed for
road maintenance activities;
iii) developing and operating management information systems;
iv)  management of road maintenance brigades and setting up of * cost
control system;
v)   designing and implementing a training program for DGR staff and
for the domestic private contractors involved in road
maintenance activities; and
vi)  setting up and operate the road works control unit (see TORs in
Annex XI).
Composition of the Team
2.        The teem of consultants to be providod by the project for DGR is
described hereafter:
man-months
A)   Road Operations Manaiement
(a) senior highway engineer, team coordinator,
advisor to DGR:                                          36
(b) expert for 'procurement of equipment, spare parts,
materials and warehouse management:                      22
(c) highway engineer to assist in management of
road brigades and set up a price costing system,
advisor to DTE's Directort                               36
(d)  technician for maintenance of paved roads:               12
(e) highway engineer for the Control Unit responsible for
contracting out maintenance works and supervising
works under contract, advisor to the DTEC's Director:  44



- 58 -                         Annex VIII
B) Financial Management. Personnel Management and Training
(f)  financial advisor to DAF:                                30
(g) personnel management expert responsible for
coordination and organization of training
activities, advisor to DAFt                              24
(h)  instructor for the Gitega training center:               24
(i)  expert advisor for private contractors:                  20
Sub-total A+B   248
C)   provision of Ex"erts for Specific Tasks to be
determined in the course of project implementationt           92
Total         340
In addition to these experts, who are supposed to be recruited
internationally, the consulting firms would have to provide two or three
junior staff who may be recruited locally for the positions of data
processing experts and accountants.
While the provision of T.A. in the project is maintained at 340 man-
months, the mandate of the technical assistance to be recruited will be a
short term one and the methodology proposed by the consulting firms to
build local capacity and measure their efficiency with regard to this
objective will be a criteria for the technical evaluation of their
proposals. A number of technical assistants would no longer intervene full-
time after the first two to three years but would return for short time
assignments to evaluate the activities of their former cont-rparts and
provide additional support.
Qtualifications and Job Description
3.        Each expert should have:
i)   fluency in spoken and written French;
ii)  training experience in his field in order to facilitate
professional and technical instruction;
iii) work experience in a developing country; and
iv)  education commensurate with the position to be occupied.
Particular qualifications and job descriptions of the team members are
given hereafter:



- 59 -                         Annex VIII
A)   Road Onerations Manaae  nt
(a) Senior Hithwav Enaineer. Team Coordinator. Advisor to DGR
4.        He should havo a good experience (about 10 years) in road
maintenance activities, preparing and budgeting maintonance programs and
planning maintenance operations, manpower planning and personnel
management. His duties will include:
i)   coordinating and monitoring the activities of the consultants'
team;
iI) coordinating with DGR, DTE, DTEC and DAF as needed to ensure a
good working relationship between consultants and DGR management
team as well as their counterparts;
iII) advising DGR's management teem on planning, budgeting, personnel
management and procur ment issues as nooded;
iv) reporting to DOR on progress made In project Implementation on a
quarterly basis and proposing any corrective measure as the need
may arise;
v)   preparing and updating (after discussing with DGR m&.agement
team) objectives for phasing out of short-, medium- and long-
term technical assistants and training of their counterparts.
(b)  Expert for Procurement of Goods and Warehouse Manat_ment          -
,*        ge should have experience In warehouse managoment and
procurement of *pare parts and basic knowledge of general mechanics. His
duties will lnclude:
I)   planning DGR's needs for supplies of spare parts for its road
maintenamce equipment and various materials for road operations
by force account;
II) preparing bidding documents and assisting in bid analysis;
iii) management of inventory and distribution of spare parts and
materials, management of warehouse, Implementation and operation
of a specific computerized management system;
iv) following up on supply contracts in coordination with DAF;
v)   In-house training of his counterpart and of staff Involved in
procurement and warehouse operations.
(c)  HiXhwav Entineer - Road Britades. Advisor to DTE
6.        He should have experience in operation and maintenance of roads
and road equipment, price costing in road maintenance activities. His
duties will include:



- 60 -                        Annex VIII
1)   assisting DTE in progreaming activities of the road brigades;
ii) setting up a price costing system for activities of brigades end
training his counterpart to operate it;
iii) advising DTE management team a needed, especially on
prograsming, planning, resources menagement and training issus.
(d) Technician for Maintenance of Paved Roads
7.        He should have experience in maintenance of paved roads,
operation of road equipment and training. His duties will includes
i)   coordinating the activities of patching and resealing brigades
for paved roads;
ii) planning, execution and supervision of works; and
iii) assistance in field training.
(e) Highwav Engineer - Control Unit. Advisor to DTEC
8.        He should have experience in road maintenance activities, in
supervision andlor implementation of road works under contract and in
labor-based civil works. His duties will includes
i)   preparing sample contracts for the various road maintenance
operations to be contracted out and preparing with DTE thb
annual road work program (Including the coff-e roads) to be
contracted out. Appropriate emphasi will be put In the
contracts on reduction or alleviation of possible negative
environmental impact of road works (drainage, borrow pits,
erosion camps, workshops, disposal of scrapand waate materials);
ii) organizing bidding procedures and ssisting in bid evaluation;
iii) organizing the monitoring of works by contractors and by force
account with appropriate emphasis on quality snd environmental
impact control;
iv) hiring local engineers and technicians under contract if and
when needed to assist in preparing bidding documents and.
supervision of works;
v) preparing documentation for contractors' payment and following
up on actual payments to ensure t4imely payments (in coordination
with DAF);
vi) setting up a management information system for the unit's
activities which will also cover operations on the ceffee roads.



- 61 -                         Annex VIII
3)   FinPncal Nanane_ent * ersonnel Manatme_nt and Traini-
(f) Financial Advisor, Advisor to DAF
9.        Ho should have a mini-su of ten-year experience in financial
managment end accounting, and have a good  xperience in data processing
and management of information syste. He will assist DGR in:
I)  Improving costing, accountlng and reporting system  and
procedures for all DGR departments
Li) maintaining project accounts, with separate accounts for the
coffee roads;
iii) setting up and operating appropriate management information
systems;
iv) preparing financial statements, cost accounting and budget
program procedures;
v)   training the personnel assigned to these tasks.
(g) Training and Personnel Management Eswert. Advisor to DAP
a10.      He should have experiece In personnel mangement and training.
He willt
i) assist DGR in formulating a long-term training strategy, and
preparing and updating the tralinig program for Its staff
(including In-house, on-the-job and abroad training) and for the
private sector involved in road activities (In-house ond on-the-
job training);
LI)  participate in DOR's training coord$natlon comudtt--l
iii) asist the Personnel Unit in setting up a personnel management
system and develop a long-term personnel manager-nt policy by
the end of the first year of project implementation (he will
coordinate with the general effort under the SAL and ongoing
actions supported by the Agriculture Services Project);
iv)  organize the training sessions and supervise their
implementation;
v)   asist in selection, recruitment, promotion and upgrading of the
staff.
Overall training objectives are indicated in para, 2.18-19 of the SAR.



- 62 -                         Annex VIII
(h) Training Instructor
11.       The instructor for the Gitega training sector should be a
mechanical xpert in road equipment with at least 10 years of experience,
and be familiar with the major types of heavy equipment used by DGR. He
will train and give refresher courses to operators of various types of road
machinery both from DGR and the private sector.
(i) Expert-Advisor for the Private Contractors
12.       He should be a civil engineer with experience with the private
sector, preferably with small-scale enterprises. He will, in close
coordination with the Control Unit:
Before the trainint works start:
$) assist in preparing bidding documents and in the bidding process
for the training works organized for the private sector;
ii) assist in informing the contractors on their role and duties in
view of the training works;
iii) organizing seminars for the contractors' staff on the following:
(a) analysis of bidding documents, preparation of submissions;
(b) preparation of works; (c) organization and monitoring of
works (cost accounting, price costing, programming supplies and
activities); and (d) quality targets, reduction of harmful
envirovmental impact in civil works.
During the trainint workes
iv) provide assistance to the contractors upon their request for
preparation of works, monitoring and adjustment of production
rates, quality and costs.
v) assist contractors In drawing lessons from their experience in
training works to be better prepared for the next phasel and
vi)  based on the  xperience acquired during the training works,
assist DGR in planning the works to be contracted out, including
nature, location and size of lots, and in preparing bidding
documents.
C)   Experts for Snecific Taks
13.       It is expected that needs or adjustments to the technical
asssistance and training programs and/or for additional short-term
assistance in specific areas will occur during project implementation.
Therefore, the project will provide for 36 man-months of short-term experts
whose profile and job description will have to be defined with DGR in
coordination with IDA as the need for these services arises.



-63-
Annex IX
Page 1 of 3
BURMNDI
Transport Sector Prolect
TECHNICG& ASSISTANCE TO DGT
Outline Terms of Reference
Obiectives
1.        The objectives of the technical assistance to DOT are to (i)
expand and Improve its transport planning capability by creating and
operating a transport data base (this action has been initiated under the
Fourth Highways Project)I (ii) assist in monitoring international transport
and preparing adequate sector policies; (iii) assist in reforming the
transport parastatals; and (iv) train DOT staff.
Technical Assistance and Trainint Program
2.        The technical assistance will consist of:
man-months
(a)  transport plannerleconomist                         48
(b)  expert for management of transport parastatals    24
(c)  short-term experts                                  12
In addition to thse experts who are supposed to be recruited
internationaly, the consulting firm would have to provide one junior
economist who may be recruited locally. The training program will consist
of abroad training for MTPT staff (60 man-months) and seminars organized in
Bujumbura for MTPT staff, transport parastatals and private operators.
Qualifications and Job Description
3.        Each expert should have:
i)   fluency in spoken and written french;
ii)  training experience; and
iii) work experience in a developing country (preferably
landlocked).
The description of the assigNments of the consultants are given hereafter:
(a) Transport Planner/Economist
4.        He should have at least 10 years of experience in transport
planning, a substantial portion of which in dealing with transit issues in
a developing country. He will have to provide assistance to DGT to:



- 64 -
Annex IX
Page 2 of 3
1) *et up and operate a tronsport data base on international and
domestic transport activities with data on transport fleet,
characteristics of vehicles, operational costs, transit time,
etc...;
Li) evaluate and follow ur, on investment projects In the transport
sector;
III) prepare sectoral PIPs and PEPs in coordination with the Ministry
of Planning;
iv) analyze transport conditions on the various International routes
and prepare appropriate transport policies In order to reduce
the cost of being landlocked and Increase flexibllity especially
for coffee export routes; and
v) develop adequate cost recovery policies in the transport sector;
He will also have to (a) train two local counterparts; (b) organize the
transport seminars and the training program for MTPT staff described
hereunder; and (c) prepare quarterly progress reports on the proj-et's
transport component.
(b) Expert for Manazement of Transport Prastatals
5      *He should have at least ten years of experiaece In m       at of
transport parastatals. He will assist DGT Ins
I) supervising parastatals and following up on implementation of
the reform of parastatals and performance contracts; and
ii) establishing cost-accounting system for parastatals.
(c) Short-Tenm Experts
6.        The project will provide for 12 man-months of short-ternm experts
who will mostly be needed to assist MIPT in the reorganization of MTPT
departments. Their profile and job description will be prepared with the
assistance of th experts above at the end of the first year of project
implementation.
Trainins prosram
7.        Fellowships for training abroad will be awarded to staff from
MTPT to help Improve their working skills as the organization of such
training in Burundi would not be feasible or would be too costly. Staff to
be trained would includet



- 65 -
Annex IX
Page 3 of 3
1)   the General Director of DOT (2 months): tranport planning,
international transport issues, cost recovery.
it) the two counterparts of the transport planner within DGT
Planning Unit (6 months each): transport planning, transit end
corridor issues, urban transport, cost recovery.
iII) three staff from the Department of Lake Trasport (6 months
each): infrastructure maintenance, dredging, signalling,
hydrographic surveys.
iv)  three staff from the Department of Civil Aviation (6 months
each)s infrastructure maintenance, airport operation.
v)   one staff from the Department of Govermnnt vehicle fleet (2
months): mangmOent of vehicle fleet, privatization of vhicle
maintenance, pricing policy.
vi)  two staff from OTRACO (4 months each)s management of a passenger
transport parastatal, price costing, logistics.
6.        Throe two-to-three-day seminars on transport issues will be
organixed in Bujimbura with the assistance of the transport planner above
for MTPT staff, staff from other ministries interested in transport lsue,
transport parstatals end the private sector. They will focus on the
following themeas (a) role of transport In the country's economy; (b)
International tramnport transit issues; (c) comparison with other
corridors; end (d) role of the private sector.



- 66 -
Annexc X
Pago 1 de 3
Prol-ct Sector1el Transport
CIRLUME DE CISTION ROUTIERU
Reumm des Termes d- Reference
1.        La creation d'une Cellule de Gestion routi-r- pr&vue dans 1-
cadre d'un finsncement du FAC eat un *laemnt cl; de la future politique
routire du pays, outil indispensable a une planification satisfaiasnte des
oparations dans le secteur. A ce titre, le projet conditionna par la mise
en place effective de la collule apportera tout 1. soutien ncessa-iro a
c-tte initiative, notsent an finan9snt certsans coata do fonctionnement
et d'installation sL necessaire dens le cadre de l- composante Renforcement.
Institutionnel.
Obiectifs de 1a C-llule
2.        L'objectif principal do la cellule sera d'assisttr la DGR dens
la programmation pluriannuelle des travaux t'entroti-n routier, la
dafinition de politiques d'entretien courant et periodique appropriies en
fonction du trafic at l'analyse technico-4conomique des projetc
d' amnagoment futurs.
3.        Los missions finales de l1  collule seront de:
(i)  proposer des smeliorations ; la politiqu  d'entretien courant
(frequence des reprofilages) *t d'entretien piriodique
(o-nuis-ge, renforcement, rechargement) compatibles avec les
ressources disponibles ou envisageables;
(ii) raviser et standardiser la methodologie d'evaluation economique
des projets routiers en liaison avec l Plan et la DOT (Cellule
de Planification);
(iii) *valuer la rentabiliti economique des projetc pr-par-s ; la DGR
ot eventuellement suggerer des variantes pour p-rvenir * une
meilleure rentabiliti;
(iv) tenir & jour un recueil des donn&es utilos (en liaison avec la
DGT) dont comptagos de trafic, coats de travaux types, donnies
du reseau; et
(v) dis quo la cellule sera opirationnelle (en fait un an do rodage
sera certainement nicessaire pour collector suffisamment de
donnies et caler les diffirents paramitres du mod&le HDM-III),
elle devrs etre associee i la priparation des programes de
travaux du projet sectoriel transport.



- 67 -
Annex X
Page 2 do 3
4.        La c-llule *or& un outil d- progra smtion at de suivi de
l'ontrotien du risesu bituai. A co titre, *ll sora chargie de:
j               (i) collector l'enseibl. d-s donnses descriptive, g-ometriqu*s et
constitutives des chaussaos, ev-luor l'-tat de degradation ot
mesuror l-s trafics;
(ii) tenir * jour les coats d'ontr-tion courant, periodique et de
ronforcomont par l'entropriso ou on regio;
(iii) constituer uno banque do donn.es informatise, pour g&rer et
traiter ces informations et susceptible d'etre *tendue a
l'onsemble du reseoug
(iv) adaptor 1- mod-el  HDM au reseau du pays &fin de disposer d'un
outil d'ovaluation aconomique fiable; et
(v) mettre en place un outil informatique de prograwmetion et de
suivi do l'entretien des routes bitumaes.
5.        La couverture du r-seau des rout-s non revetuos (principales
d'abord pus secondairos onauit-) devrait *tre assuree au cours de la
deuxiame ou la troisime *anno d'alxistnce de la cellule.
Position de la Cellule au cein do la DOR
6.        L'oxistonce do la collule devrait *tre offici$lleount reconnue
au sein de la DGR de facon ; assurer ca p;rennite.  La collulo devra ;tre
un outil intagre ; la DGR et travaillant *vec et pour ses deux directions
techniques. La personnel do la collule devra pour cola passer boeucoup de
temps a expliquor la nature, la mithodologie et l'utilit; de sea activites
et s'assurer quo sa production *st utilis-o par los diffirents services
destinataires, en effectuant les adaptations eventuellement necossaires.
La collulo sera diroctement rattschee au DGR et oeuvrera do concert avec
les services concernes de la DGR pour recueillir les donnies necessaires.
Movens de la Cellule
7.        Le FAC prevoit'd'affecter ; la cellule un inganieur routier,
avec uno formation compliment-ire d'aconomisto, de la cooparation fran$aise
qui serait responsable do la mise en place de la cellule durant une periode
do 2 ens, second- par un inganieur routior avec des bonnes connaissances en
informatique.
8.        Deux inganieurs Burundais homologues seront affectes ; la
cellule, leur formation devant etre assuree par les coop;rants ci-dessus.
Les deux ingonieurs Burundais ; affecter ; la cellule devront etre ceux qui
ont assiste au stage de formation i l'utilisation du modele HDM-III en
septembre 1988 sur financement du Quatriime Projet Routier IDA.



- 68 -
&nnex. X
Page 3 de 3
9.        En outr- le personnel complewantafre nec-ssarre (secratariat,
dessinateur, technicion) *ara eg-alment affect. a 1- cellul-. Des locaux
(3 ; 4 bursaux) *cront ais a i- dloposition do ia collulo et scublis et
iquip;s par lo cridit FAC. Du uatiriel specifique (inforoatiqu*, mat;riol
de arure do l'UNI do chausses, de masures de deflxion, comptage at
pesage) et *a miss an route sont igalemnt prevus par 1c FAC dans le cadre
do son finsncment.  Par contre les v;hieules n&cessalres aux aesures, ; i-
collecte des donnies et au fonctionnement de la cellule doivent Ztre
fournis par la DGR, sauf 2 v;hlculas de chantiar et un vhiheule l-ger
fournls par 1- cridit FAC.
10.       Le finsnciennt du FAC so compose approxImativsmsnt come suit
pour les deux premlers annkes du projet)
Mateirel pour l  cellule de gestion routlere t    1,5 WF
Vehleules pour ia cellule                      a   0,3 WF
Enveloppo pour missions d'experts             t   0,2 HF?
Miss ; disposition de 2 coop;rants             s   P.M.
ii.       L'IDA financera partiellement is mlse en placse do is cellule at
son fonctionnement, par oxemple on assurant le financoment do v;hlcules ou
materiel complementaires at des campagnes de mesures ou comptags.    La
cellule disposera d'une enveloppe budgitalre annuelle pour passer cosande
au laboratoire des mesures qui lui seront n&cessaires, definios en fonction
de  objectlfs fixes annuellement. Lea coats de fonctionn ment de ia
collule, y compris carburant et fonctionnement des vihbcuies et frais do
mission seront assures por ia DGR our ligne budgetaire spaciEfique.



- 69 -
Annex XI
Page 1 of 2
Trna  ort Sector Prolet
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCI TO THE CONTRDL UNI
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        MTPDU intends to set up a Control Unit for Road Maintenance Works
within DGR. The Control Unit will first focus on works carried out under
contract but it will also later on control works carried out by DGR's
brigades.
2.        Objectives.    The objectives of  he Control Unit are to (i)
control the quality of works and enforce technical specifications; (ii)
enfore general and special conditions of contracts; and (iii) check claims
of contractors for payment of works.
3.        Assistance to the Control Unit.    The technical asistanee to the
Control Unit will consist of two experts (one full-time expert financed by
IDA, one half-tim expert financed by ACCD) during an Implementation period
of four years as well as short-term experts fmiliar with quality control of
road maintenance works In tropical countries and contract maagement of road
maintenance works. They wil have to provide assistance to:
(i) prepare standard format documents for contract preparation and
supervision of orks; and
(ii)   prepare and carry out a training program for the Burundian staff
of the Control Unit.
4.        Pregaration of Standard Format Documents.    The two expatriate
experts would assist in designing standard documents and procedures to help
the Control Unit monitor works and costs, and evaluate contractors'
performances (in order to update the national register of contractors). As
unit costs for road maintenance are muh lower than for new construction,
control costs would have to be reduced in proportion. Preparation of the
standard format documents will help maintain low costs for preparation and
supervision of works. Such documents will be suitable for computerized data
collection and includes
(a) a sheet for identification/localiaztion of works;
(b) a set of road cross sections and drainage drawings;
(e) a unit price list;
(d) a bill of quantities;
(e) simple technical prescriptions;



- 70 -
Annex XI
Page 2 of 2
(f) simple conditions of contract;
(g) sample contracts (including the lengthman system);
(h) variation order;
(i) monthly contractors' claims; and
(j) sample monthly site report and global report to DGR.
4.        Trainint for Burundian Staff.  The consultants will organize a
training seminar for their Burundian counterparts of the Control Unit to
prepare them to fulfill their technical and administrative duties. Technical
duties consist of (i) monitoring quality of works (impact on road span,
quality tests, impact on the environment); (1$) check quantities of works
actually carried out; (1i1) makE any on-site decision to address works'
completion issues; and (iv) control the potentially negative environmental
impact of works (such as borrow pits). Administrative duties consist of
contract management for road maintenance and its Impact on costs of works
(such as delayed payments meaning additional costs to contractors caused by
the owner not complying with the contract). The seminar will familiarize
participants with the use of standard technical and administrative documents
referred to in pars. 4. Participants with past experience of direct road
maintenance works or supervision of construction works under contract will
be welcome to explain difficulties they encountered and how they addressed
them, and to what extent issues and solutions could be similar for road
maintenance orks.
5.        The seminar will last four full-time weeks or equivalent time split
over appropriate periods. Two weeks will be devoted to technical aspects
and the two remaining weeks to the administrative aspects of supervision of
road maintenance works.   The detailed training program will first be
submitted to DGR and IDA for approval.



- 71 -
Annex XII
Page 1 of 2
DURMNDI
Transmort Sector Project
FSIBILITY STUD! FOR AN  Ms HKN-RBTN  POOL
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        MTPDU  intends  to  proceed  with  a  study  on  an  efficient
organizational scheme to meet the needs of DGR and of national contractors
for road construction and maintenance equipment.
2.        The existing equipment management system within DGR had not proven
to be effective during the past yearst the average rate of utilization has
been low due to numerous breakdowns (less than 400 working hours per machine
per year).   The two main reasons of this poor perfonrmnce ares  (i)
difficulties in DGR's recruiting and keeping qualified mechanicsl and (1i)
cumbersome and ineffective procurement procedures for spare parts.
3*        The Transport Sector Project includes a large road componont to
be carried out by the national road construction industry such as regional
DGR's brigades and domestic contractors who will be encouraged to enter this
activity.  One way to help them undertake this shift is to rent them road
construction machinery.  Both DGR's brigades and domestic contractors will
fail to carry out their duty if the efficiency of equipmnt management does
not improve.
4.        The design of a more effective scheme for equipment management Is
therefore a key element of a successful Implementation of the Trasport
Sector Project.  Before the project starts, the study should provide the
Ministry with solution to trnsform the existing DGR's equipment department
into an adequate organization, hereafter called plant pool, to meet the needs
efficiently.
5.        The study will consist of (i) reviewing the domestic industry's
demand for road construction equipment, and design of a fleet of machines;
($$) cost-analysis of managing this fleet; (1,$) study of an appropriate
organizational setup to manage the fleet; and (iv) analysis of contractual
relationship between DGR, the priv&te sector and the proposed organization.
6.        Review of the Demand.  The study will identify the respective
expected shares of works by DGR's brigades and domestic contractors in the
project and take into account similar works programmed by other ministries
for the same period of time to be carried out with same equipment by brigades
or contractors. The study will analyze to what extent domestic contractors
should rent or purchase their equipment. Finally, the study will propose an
appropriate fleet of machines to be gathered into the plant pool to meet the
needs of DGR's brigades and contractors.
7.        Cost-analysis.   The study will estimates (i) the annual costs
deriving from equipment ownership (depreciation of capital and related
interests); (ii) periodic maintenance costs of equipment; (iii) annual costs
of the central workshop, and if relevant, of regional workshops;



- 72 -
Annex XII
Page 2 of 2
(iv) general overheads including financial costs; (v) risk and profit margin
and taxes, assuming that the plant pool may hav, to pay taxes. The study
will determine the mount needed for either equity and working capital, and
will set up previsional balance shets.
8.        Organizational setup.  The study will review several options  1/
to be proposed to decision-makers, such as:
i)   a Department of Equipment integrated to DOR as it is now;
Ui)  an autonomous plant pool, independent from DGR, but not from the
Ministry;
iii) a commercially-oriented Public Office;
iv)  a "socitt  d'oconomi  mlixteo, with the majority of the share
belonging to the Government;
v)   a private firm with or without the Government being a minority
shareholder.
The study will review the pros and cons of each option with particular
emphasis to efficiency and the legal Issues raised by the options, In
particular with the equipment transfer from the Ministry to the plant pool,
and will propose appropriate ways to address these issues.  If the study
recommends participation of the private sector to the plant pool's equity,
It will include a prelminary Identification of the espected private
shareholders.
9.        Contractual Relationships.  The study will review the conditions
under which the plant pool will rent equipment to DGR's brigades and
contractors and draft a sample renting contract,and design a procedure for
DGR's procurement for these renting services.   It will also review the
condition for a private shareholding and design a competitive procedure for
the selection of the private shareholders, set up a bidding document format,
and propose criteria for evaluation of proposals.
10.       The study i estimated to three man-months and will be carried out
by a foreign expert familiar with management of equipment-renting
organizations, and by a national/foreign legal expert familiar with Burundian
laws.
1/  A management contract with a private operator may be considered for
the first four options.



- 73 -
Annex XIII
Page 1 of 2
BUIUNDI
Sransuort Sector Pro lct
7 RASPORT-MLATKD STUDIES
Outline Term of Reference
Road Safety/Traffic Regulations and Traffic Conditions in Bujumbura
1.   Obiectives.    The objectives of the study are to define appropriate
saaeures to improve (i) road safety In Burundi and (1i) traffic conditions
in Bujumbura.                   4
2.   Road safety and traffic reeulations.    The consultant will first have
to   analyze   the   present   situation:   (a)   identify   admini trative
responsibilities; (b) analyze current traffic regulations (driving licnsue,
road ode, technical inspection of vehiclel, signalization, law enforcement);
(c) collect any data available on accidents; (d) define a typology of
accident.; and (c) estimate the costs of accidents (insurance costs,
administrative resources devoted to accidents).     wig l then propose a flve-
year action plan for road safety defining measures In order to reduce the
number of accidents and victim.  His recommendations will iclude (a)
design, equipment and use of road infrastructures; (b) training of road
users; (e) technical inspection; (d) traffic regulations ; and (e) law
enforement   He will also evaluate the costs of the different measures to
be undertaken and propose an imple.entatior schedule. Finally an econamic
analysis of the action plan will be done.
3. Traffic Conditions in Bulumbura.    The consultant will carry out the
relevant inquiries and traffic counts (to be defined by the consultant) in
order to (i) establish a matrix origin-destination of transport flows
including determination of seasonality coefficients and (ii) demonstrate the
phenomenon of peak hours.  The study will then analyze peat trends and
forecast future trends concerning Bujumbura urban development, vehicle fleet,
and freight and passenger traffic. A typology of the urban road network will
finally be defined (traffic volumes, geometric characteristics). After this
analysis, his recomendations will include: (a) truck traffic (itinerary,
hour, azle-load limits); (b) general traffic plan; (c) improvement of black
spots; (d) signaliastion (traffic lights, right-of-way, speed lim4t); and (e)
side improvements (bus and taxi stops).
4.  Qualifications and Job Descrintion.       Both studies are each estimated
to 6 man-months and will be carried out in parallel. The consultants to be
provided for the studies includes a transport engineer with extensive
experience in road safety policies within a State administration or a
research center. He will be assisted by an economist for the first study and
by a traffic engineer for the second study.



- 74 _
Annex XIII
Page 2 of 2
Lake Navitation and Development of Sm-ll Fishing Facilities on the Lake
5.  Obiectives.    There are three ports along the Burundian shore of L-ke
Tanganyika: Bujumbura (the most tmportaint), Rumonge and Nyanza Lac.  The
objectives of the study are to (i) dWine what are the necessary dredging
works for the port of Bujumbura; (ii) propose a development plan for the
ports of Rumongs and Nyanza Lac; and (iii) evaluate the feasibility of three
small fishing facilities along the lake's ahore.
6.  Dredgina works in the Port of Buiumbura.       The consultant will analyse
all the documentation concerning dredging and reference levels (a well as
lake level) in the port of Bujumbura. He will then make bathymetric measures
in ord-r to determine areas, volumes and nature of materials to be dredged,
and evaluate the  cost of dredging.   He will take into account the
environmental issues which may be associated with the dredging works to be
envisaged. He will take into account progress in the shipyard project and
make propositions to harmonize works to be undertaken with works under way
in other neighboring countries around the lake.
7.  Develooment of the ports of Rumon.e an4 Nvanza Lac.    The study will
define what are the necessary works to be undertaken to lmprove navigation
and safety in these ports including protective and dredging works through
adequate hydrographic mesmure.
8. Development of small fishina facilities alona the lake9s shor-. T h e
consultant will analyze the feasibility of three fishing facilities along the
shore: traffic forecats and repartition between the three ports, quantity
of works necessary, economic analysis. He will in particular make adequate
bathymetric and topographic measures, design the proposed works and estimate
their costs.
9.  Qualifications and Job Description.       The study is estimated to 8 man-
months.   The consultants to be provided will be a port engineer with
extensive experience in dredging works and designing port facilities,
assisted by a transport economist.



- 75 -
Annex XIV-1
NUlRINDI
rensport Sector Prolect
KOCOICC IVAWATION
3stiated Vehicle Operatia   Costs   11
(in nulveicle.ba)
Road Too and  Conditeon            <-  Tosoareph    ------y
prTYDO Of VehilCe
flat     undulatina       mountainous
A^. Pi_ _ rn Ca.
1. Iimim¶Iewed Track
3 "Inth good eeonodkition      94.4         6J.9                114.9
In fair condition             112.1          121.1              187.7
tn poor condition             132.2          141.3              101.7
2. Improved Trawc
in good condition              74.9           79.4              sU.$
In fair condition              n.4            95.3              106.4
in poor condition             144.8          111.1              123.0
S. Paved Roa
in good condition              40.1           40.0               44.9
In fair condition              48.1           49.9               53.9
In poor condition              U6.2           67.2               62.9
1. Uai.POeed Trsck
in good condition             192.2          244.9             312.8
in foir condition             26.6            M. 382 076.4
In poor condition             261.6          341.6             437.9
2. mproved Trock
In good condition             165.1          190.4             249.2
In fair condition             188.1          228.4              299.0
In poor condition             217.1          266.5             849.7
S. Paved Road
In good conditon               77.8           63.3              107.7
In fair conditlon              3.4            99.9              129.3
In poor condition             16.9           116.0              160.8
C. Thzes tlCE
1. Ulmimpreed Track
in good condition             265.4          $17.6             401.'
In foir condition             $66.4          389.4             431.7
In poor condition             35T.5          443.0             1S2.0
2. Iproved Track
In good condltion             294.0          24?.1             320.7
In fair condttton             245.7          290.5             804.0
In poor condition             286.7          U46.9             448.9
S. Paved Road
In good condition             166.6          113.9             144.1
In fair condition             127.J          136.6              172.9
In poor condition             149.1          158.2              281.7
1/ Not of Tax** In mid-1989 Prices
Source:      Tokhno (Bolgian Consulting Firm), RIG 13 Feasibility Study, January 1988



Traoamort Sector Projecl
IStNIIIC  lVALUTiAT
Improvement  Coffee Rtgravellini   Patching    Grading 1"       rading to Paved
Typo of CiviI Work           Raii                Periodic Seinteeoao  Pawed Road" (404 ha) barth  ade    "ade  brth bade"   Pved Reed., frm bade                 Standards
1. Length  (in   )                      Is         47      is     112    129       90       18          415     a00             10      1.011          ,000                 26
2. Traffic (AT) in 1968                aZn        274     411     3       t        164      1            24       10            s0         no             s0       140
8. Firat Year Benefits                  1"         20      241     80       29111   161    8             1i6      U             s7         571            461               121
(125 discount rate)
4. Econcoic Rte of Return
a) Seat Eatilto                      8          40      44t1   691     an               m            171     2m1            2m          13i           491               li
b) Saneitivity:
(i)   Traffic Groti p.m 81              Ji         413     411    84       so      8       Ua            171       -            241        471           481        1U1
(ii) Costa: * 101                       311        402     411    Ni       491    82l      ok5           l        173          1in         413           8o1                141
(Mii) Combined (i) a (;i)               8          dS      m         1     473     an      81o           an        -            16l         -             -                 1tB
c) Ecomic Rate of Return for the Projctb              121.0



- 77 -
Annex XV
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI
Transport Sector Prolect
PROGRESS RWPO      sT
Prolect ProErm  Rorts
1*        The Borrowor wili prepar- quarterly and annual progres reports
to b- submitted to the Association. The quarterly report will be submitted
not later than one month after the end of the period and the annual report
three months after the end of the year.
2.        The progress reports *hall contain the information described below:
(a) the physical progress accomplished to tL& date of report end during
the reporting period including:
(i) th main activities to be programed and monitored (both force
account and under contract, to  3  shown separately): raved
road   maintenance    (m2),    Lravolling    (m3),    spot
fmprovem_entlarth works (m3), surface grading (ki), manual
maintenance (km and m3 of selective material), culvert
maintor Ance (units) and bridge maintenance (units).
(11) the inputs required/used to achieve the activity targets by
brigade or unit include peronnoel (by qualification),
equipment (units and utilization), fuel (liters), spare parts
(Fnu) and materials (m3).
(iii) efficiency indicators such as availability rates (ln I) and
utilizatlon rates (ln hours or km) of major equipment
categorles (graders, bulldozers, trucks, plck-ups, loaders).
The combination of lnput and output indlcators will a.2o
provide measures of productivity and unlt costs;
(iv) workshop actlvity 1ndLcators such as repairs by major type,
overhauls by major type and spare parts consumptlon (FBu);
(v) training Indicators such as numer of trainees and average
length of trainlng for both standard trallng seslons and
special training semlnar; and,
(vi) other key information which is not provlded by the
quantitative indlcators;
(b) progress on procurement of goods, materials, equipment and servlces
(status  of  procedure,  contracts,    mpleimentatlon  rates  of
contracts);



_ 78 -
Annex XV
Page 2 of 3
(c) progress on procurement of civil works (number of contracts,
smounts, rate of completion, payments);
(d)  actual or expected deviations from the implementation schedule;
(e)  information on difficulties encountered and unforeseen events which
have a bearing on the implementation of the program;
(f)  explanation as to deviations from the targets set and description
of the corrective measures which have been taken or are being
prepared;
(g)  expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(h)  information  on  key  staff  changes  in  DGR,  consultants  or
contractors;
(i) financial information on the execution of the budget or on budget
revision;
(j) financial information on each project component indicating the
original estimated cost, the revised cost if appropriate, the
actual expenditure, the planned expenditures, and the actual and
planned withdrwals from the Credit Account; and,
(k) status of action on each covenant of the Credit Agreement.
Proftet Comuletion Reuort
3.        The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the closing
date.
4.        The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce the self-
evaluation capacity by the Borrower and the Association's operating
departments and to facilitate dissemination of lessons learned through the
project. The PCR will examine and assess:
(a) the performance by the Borrower and the Lasociation of their
respective obligations undwr the Credit Agreement and whether
the Association could have been more helpful;
(b)  the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal and whether the original
expectations were realistic; and,
(c) whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could
have done better.



- 79 -
Annex XV
Page 3 of 3
5.        For those components of the project for whieh a rate of return was
estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimat of the
return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the resons for
physical or economic deviations. However, the new rate of return calculation
should be as simple as possible under the circumstances and should absorb
only a minor portion of the tim devoted to the preparation of the PCR. An
*nnex wlth the relevant information supporting this analysis should be
included.
6.        The basic documents to be referred to are-
- credit appllcation
- preappraLsal report and project brief
- staff appraisal report (SCAR)
- Credit Agroement document and supplementary letters
- supervlslon reports
- quarterly and annual progress reports
- correspondence files
- miscellaneous evaluation reports.



-80 -                            Annex XVI
Draft Atreed at Negotiations
STATEMENT OF TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
1.          In Burundi, a mountainous landlocked country, maintaining a reliable
and cost-effective system for moving goods and people has always been of capital
importance  for the nation's  development.    In accordance with the broad
orientations of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1988-92), the transportation sector's
role is that of supporting food security and other primary development goals.
A dense network of well-maintained roads will promote both intensification and
regional specialization of agriculture.   Similarly, improved management of
international transportation routes and systems will help bring down the high
cost of moving goods and people and promote access to external markets.
2.          These  considerations  mandate  the  development,  within  the
transportation sector, of strategies based on principles of transparency, to be
applied within a rapidly changing economic context. The need to ensure that
transportation policy is fully integrated into the nation's economy as a whole
requires periodic re-examination of strategic objectives and of the actions to
be undertaken within the sector. The present document sets forth the principles
that the Government intends to follow, together with its medium and long term
objectives and the concrete measures that are to be taken.
Principles
*     Promote the provision of efficient and reliable transportation services
on dynamic free-market principles, with the Central Government seeking to create
a favorable environment and limiting its actions to safety concerns and
monitoring of the sector's performance.
*     Encourage the development of a local private sector not only to construct,
maintain and manage transportation infrastructure but also to operate
transportation services.
*     Recover costs from users either in the form of an appropriate pricing
system or in the form of taxes.
*     Assign priority  to the maintenance  and  rehabilitation  of  existing
infrastructure, and limit new capital investment to projects offering a positive
economic rate of return.
*     Continue the process of consultation with neighboring,  transit and
landlocked countries with a view to improving transportation services on a
commercial basis by providing appropriate remuneration for services rendered.
*     Step up the development and use of appropriate technologies employing
domestic resources.



-81 -                            Annex XVI
Obiectives
Mi)      For a landlocked country like Burundi, lower transportation costs
represent a fundamental objective, as these costs account for almost 25 percent
of the retail selling price of imported goods. Transportation costs include not
only direct costs (a sizable portion of which are in foreign exchange) but also
such indirect costs as freight waiting costs (financing costs) or even the cost
of equipment downtime waiting for spare parts to arrive. The Goverrment will
be introducing measures designed to cut the total ccst of transportation. As
far as international transportation is concerned, tLe Government will seek to
lower transportation costs by striking a balance between more flexible rules
governing transportation and competition between modes and access routes and
between public and private operators, while at the same time working to promote
domestic transport operators.
(ii)      The national and regional road network has seen considerable
construction and improvement over the past decade. With some exceptions, the
paved network is in satisfactory condition, and now requires constant attention
to maintenance, both routine (manual 'cantonnage' and patching of holes) and
periodic    (restoration    of    the    wearing    course    and    bridge
maintenancelreconstruction). The Government will introduce a program for the
systematic periodic maintenance of the paved network with assistance from its
foreign partners designed to preserve its infrastructure capital, complementing
the routine maintenance that it intends to continue in order to maintain an
acceptable level of service at all times.
(iii)      As far as unpaved roads are concerned, their maintenance in sound
operating condition is extremely important for the regional and local economy.
Systematic maintenance (reshaping and manual "cantonnage') and periodic
regraveling will be undertaken.  In addition, improvements will be made to
unpaved roads where traffic is sufficiently heavy to justify this, upgrading them
into up-to-date earth roads or, in certain cases, paving them. Bridges on this
network will be built or improved as needed. All operations will be guided by
considerations of economic return.
(iv)      Local farm-to-market roads will be maintained through local human
and financial resources.
(v)      In order to expand the production of fully washed coffee, a program
for the improvement/construction and maintenance of roads serving the coffee
washing stations will be undertaken as part of the program for developing these
washing stations.
(vi)      In an effort to develop the private sector's ability to maintain and
rehabilitate the road network, the Government will endeavor to ensure that,
starting in 1995, at least 65 percent of such work is carried out by private
contractors.
(vii)      The Government will implement a program of training and technical
assistance to develop the human resources required to plan, manage and monitor
transportation and infrastructure services.
(viii)      Given that limiting and reducing the budget deficit is an overriding



-82 -                            Annex XVI
national objective, it is vitally important to lessen the impact of the
transportation sector in general, and of the public enterprises in the sector
in particular, on the national budget. Efforts will accordingly be directed to
improving the recovery of infrastructure costs and enhancing the performance of
the public enterprises in order to reduce, and even to eliminate, their
dependence on budgetary funds.
(ix)      The Government is concerned at the growing number of traffic
accidents and wishes to take measures to improve road safety and the safety of
infrastructure facilities.  Among these measures, priority will be given to
updating the rules and regulations governing road vehicles.
ACTION PROGRAM
(i)      Vehicle reRulations
In order to increase road safety and reduce the damage caused to
roadways by excessive axle loads, the Government will prepare and implement new
axle load regulations for the international network and for the national and
local network, together with regulations governing other parameters having a
bearing on road safety. An axle weight inspection system will be instituted at
the border crossings on RN-1 and RN-5, together with a system of flying
inspection teams on other highways. The procedures for driver instruction and
issuance of driving licenses also need to be revised.
(ii)      Transportation prices
Charges for transporting both freight and passengers will be
deregulated. Road freight charges will be freed immediately.
In order to encourage capital investment and promote competition
among lake transport operators, the Government proposes to gradually deregulate
the prices that may be charged for lake transport operations. This will be made
possible in the medium term by the recent revision of the relevant price schedule
and the presence of real competition among the four existing Burundian operators.
In regard to passenger traffic, the Government's objective is to
encourage the operation of efficient public and private transportation systems
at the lowest possible cost. Growth of the private sector will be encouraged
by progressive deregulation of fares for urban and interurban services.
(iii)      Passenger transport
In order to allow people to travel both within and between urban
areas at the least possible cost, the Government will encourage the
coeKistence of, and competition between, a dynamic private sector and an
efficient public sector. Certain categories of the p pulation may qualify for
sulsidies for their home/work and home/school travel under a social policy geared
to the country's capabilities.
OTRACO, which has just signed a performrnce contract with the
Government, needs to substantially improve its technical and financial
performance in order to maintain a level of service comparable to that currently



-83 -                            Annex XVI
being obtained with the recently delivered new buses. Implementation of the
performance contract -- which will, incidentally, need to be amended to bring
it fully into line with the proposed objectives -- will be systematically
monitored by government authorities.   In return,  the Government will be
authorizing OTRACO to gradually raise its fares in order to cover its operating
costs properly;  an initial 50/percent  fare  increase will be  implemented
i4mediately. OTRACO's performance will be evaluated annually and, depending on
the results, the Government will decide on appropriate actions vis-a-vis the
company (extension of the performance contract; reorganization with amendment
of the performance contract; or awarding of a concession to a private operator).
The private  sector may benefit  from ccmmercial leasing arrangements  for
transportation equipment donated to Burundi or purchased with the aid of foreign
loans.
In addition, it is desirable for the Government to have a better
knowledge of the urban transportation sector so that it can identify possible
areas where coordination is needed between public and private services, and the
most effective mechanisms for delivering subsidies for services of a social
nature. A passenger transportation study will be carried out for this purpose.
(iv)      Lake transportation
With regard to lake transportation services, the Government has
invested considerable sums in recent years in modernizing the Port of Bujumbura,
as water transport is expected to continue to play an extremely important role
in supplying the country with needed goods and shipping out Burundian products:
lake transport remains the cheapest in terms of direct costs.
The Government intends to turn these capital investments to account
and to maximize the return to the economy; it also wishes to encourage lake
transport operators to make investments. In addition, the Government will limit
capital investment that would be likely to reduce the rate of return or add
excessively to the debt burden.
As regards the Port of Bujumbura, the Government will assign its
operation to a mixed-economy (semi-public) company constituted under private law
and operating under a new concession agreement where payment of a fee would cover
part of the cost of servicing the debt contracted by the Government for
construction of the port. The concessionnaire will be guaranteed management
autonomy that will enable him to achieve a maximum level of performance.
For several years now the Government has been planning to supplement
the lake transport installations by building a shipyard at Bujumbura that would
allow vessels to be maintained there and permit the development of a shipbuilding
industry. The Government still plans to implement this project, but only after
ascertaining that it will be possible to award a concession to a.& operating
company with the obligation to service the corresponding debt.
(v)      Air transport
Air transport is destined to play an increasing role in carrying
passengers throughout the region and also for carrying freight. The Government
plans to encourage the development of this potential market and enhance the
competitiveness of this sector by improving the return on existing



-84 -                            Annex XVI
infrastructure, which is currently underutilized.
A study will be made of the development of air transport and of t}e
conditions and regulations governing it. This is intended to lead to a plan of
action that will extend to air transport the deregulation measures adopted for
the remainder of the economy, more particularly the transportation sector.
(vi)      International transport
The Government will maintain an active policy of dialogue with
neighboring countries, transit countries and other landlocked countries with a
view to improving conditions for movement through the Northern Corridor, more
particularly with use of the DTDR (Document de transit douanier routier - Customs
Road Transit Document) in accordance with the Preferential Trade Area (PTAIZEP)
recommendations, and also through the Central Corridor, where the movement of
road vehicles to the Isaka terminal, and possibly on to Dar-es-Salaam, is
expected to increase. Lastly, the southern route via Mpulungu will also be the
subject of discussions with Zambia, in view of its growing importance for import
traffic.  To support this dialogue, the Administration des Transports will
establish a system for the statistical monitoring of traffic flows and costs with
a view to improving knowledge of the conditions governing international
transport.
In order to reduce the overall transportation costs of Burundi's
imports and exports over the medium term, the Government will seek to liberalize
the conditions governing international transport. The choice of transportation
mode and of transport operators (carrier, insurer, forwarding agent) will
generally be left to the importer's discretion, and the impact of BRBI's
involvement in the allocation of foreign exchange on selection of trasportation
mode  and  operator  will  be  progressively  eliminated.    In  like  manner,
international transportation rates will be deregulated by law, and negotiation
between importer and operator will become the rule.
The Government is intent on maintaining a domestic transportation
capacity, with OTRABU forming an important element in this. The Government will
accordingly seek to make this enterprise more competitive in the face of
competition from a dynamic privati sector by opening up a majority of OTRABU's
capital to the private sector and installing a private-sector management.
The Government wishes to encourage use of the Central Corridor for
part of the country's imports of petroleum products as a means of reducing the
cost of these imports. To this end, the price structure for petroleum products
will be reviewed periodically to encourage importers to make use of
this route. In addition, importers should be in a position to negotiate the
purchase of motor fuels at Kigoma and thus counter competition. The MTPT will
endeavor to establish, jointly with the Comite National de l'Energie et de l'Eau
(National Energy and Water Committee), a system of information on transportation
networks to cope with the possibility of a supply crisis involving petroleum
products or other essential commodities.
(vii)      Institutional strenathenint and training
Implementation and monitoring of the programs defined above will be
the   responsibility   of   the  Ministry   of   Transportation,   Posts   and



-85 -                            Annex XVI
Telecommunications  (MTPT)  for  measures  falling  within  the  realm  of
transportation, and of the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development (MTPDU)
for measures pertaining to highway infrastructure. For each subsector, a plan
of action will indicate the specific measures the Government intends to carry
out.  The timetable for these measures is indicative in nature and will be
adjusted periodically in consultation with Burundi's partners in this sector.
Several of the actions to be undertaken relate to the establishment
of modalities for the application of sectoral policy. Inasmuch as relates to
the MTPT, institutional strengthening will be implemented as follows$
(a)   Establishment of a Road Transport Directorate (Directicl des Transports
Routiers) charged with monitoring OTRACO's performance contract, passenger
traffic and freight traffic.   The MTPT will thus be responsible for
supervision (tutelle) of OTRACO and OTRABU.
(b)   A technical assistance program in support of the foregoing objectives.
(c)   A training program for MTPT staff to provide them with the knowledge and
experience required to carry out their increased responsibilities.
Programming of government and public enterprise investments in the
infrastructure and transportation sector will be carried out in accordance with
the Five-Year Plan objectives under a yearly exercise for the preparation of
a three-year priority investment program and a public expenditure program drawn
up in consultation with Burundi's external partners, in order to mobilize the
necessary resources, both domestic and external. For the transportation sector,
this programming will be prepared by the Directorate General for Transportation
in conjunction with the Directorate General for Planning and the Directorate
General for Roads. As regards the highway sector, a Road Planning Unit (Cellule
de Gestion Routiere) will be established within the MTPDU's Directorate General
for Roads and provided with the necessary tools for programming investments and
road maintenance in conjunction with the Directorate General for Planning. As
a general principle, the Government will undertake capital investments only where
these are economically justified and servicing of the resultant debt will not
impose an intolerable burden on the public finances. In addition, the Government
will limit the execution of any investments likely to reduce the return on
existing investments.
A study fund for the infrastructure and transportation sector will
be set up with the aid of foreign partners in order to prepare for the years
ahead and ensure that future measures are designed and progrsmmed sufficiently
in advance. This will also enable the authorities to better diagnose problems
and to make the necessary corrections in good time.
In the highway infrastructure sector, implementation of the policy
set forth above will be supported by a totally restructured technical assistance
program and by a training program aimed not only at the staff of DGR but also
at the domestic firms it is hoped to promote.
(viii)      Infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation
The Government will develop a periodic maintenance program for the
entire paved road system and for the network of priority earth roads. It will



-86 -                            Annex XVI
also arrange for satisfactory routine maintenance of this network. In addition,
RN-1 and RN-2, which are already in an advanced stage of deterioration, will be
the subject of a rehabilitation program and the Government will undertake the
construction of a paved road from Muyinga to Tanzania via Kobero.
To accomplish such a program, the Government will have to come up
with local financing estimated to be on the order of FBu 800 million a year, to
which would be added external contributions. To generate the local resources
required, a policy of cost recovery from road users will be followed. At this
time, a large proportion of the money for road maintenance comes from the
National Road Fund (Fonds Routier National - FRN) and the remainder from the
Ordinary Budget (which receives all the taxes collected for use of the roads
except for the FRN levy) and the Investmer.t Budget (Budget Extraordinaire et
d'Investissement - BEI). To date, the Ordinary Budget's contribution to road
maintenance costs has been limited to paying the salaries of civil servants and
the cost of operating the DGR office. Pending an upcoming budgetary reform,
following which the Ordinary Budget will be called upon to finance road
maintenance costs as a complement to the National Road Fund, it is the Investment
Budget that will have to provide the needed additional contribution.
As regards the Road Fund, the Government plans to review the amount
of the FRN levy on motor fuels periodically in order to at least maintain the
volume of resources generated in real terms. The remaining domestic resources
required for road maintenance operations and for counterpart contributions to
investment operations financed by other countries will come from the national
budget. To this end, the MTPDU w"U11 show its budgetary requirements in a unified
manner, i.e. the budget estimates will reflect an annex budget for the National
Road Fund. FRN's resources, however, will be made directly available to the DGR
in the form of a bank account.
The cost of maintaining the access roads tGo the coffee washing
stations will, in principle, be financed as coffee production costs, i.e. by
withholding from the proceeds of coffee sales. However, in cases where the
coffee market situation does not allow this, these costs will be borne by the
government budget.
As regards works needed to be carried out on these roads, the DGR
will serve as consulting engineer or project manager for the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) under an agreement to be concluded between MAE
and MTFDU.
A large and growing proportion of the road maintenance works
traditionally executed on forcn account by DGR staff will in future be entrusted
to p.Tvate contractors in order to strengthen and gradually develop the domestic
road building industry. In this way it is also hoped to develop the use of
labor-intensive techniques to replace the highly mechanized and foreign exchange
intensive methods currently employed most of the time.   This policy will,
therefore, also seek to promote employment in the sector.
ANNEX:            Action Program and Timetable



-87 -                            Annex XVI
BURUNDI
GENERAL POLICY FOR THE TRANSPORTATION
AND TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
ACTION PROGRAM AND TIMETABLE
A.        PROGRAMING OF INVESTMENT AND PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
December 31               Adoption of a three-year Prosramme des DePenses
each year                 Publiques (PDP - Public Expenditure Program) for the
Transportation and Ronds sectors in conformity with the
principles of general policy for the Transportation sector,
having regard to the agreements signed with donors.
B.        LAKE TRANSPORT
(i)     Port of Bu1umbura
February 20, 1990         Confirmation by the Government of the principle of issuing a
concession for operation of the port to a mixed-economy
(semi-public) company constituted under private law.
February 20, 1990         Submission of a schedule for establishment of the
concession.
June 30, 1990             Introduction of a pricing structure allowing recovery of
costs (cost of operation and maintenance, provision for
capital investment, fee payable to the Government as
contribution toward repayment of a portion of the debt,
corporation tax, and after-tax profit).
December 31               Yearly pricing review.
each year
(ii)     Lake transport
June 30, 1990            Review of pricing arrangements in the form of a bracket rate
guaranteeing a minimum rate of return on operations,
allowing the possibility for identical remuneration of
services on all the lines served, while opening up the
market to competition among lake transport companies.
December 31               Yearly pricing review.
each year
June 30, 1992            Deregulation of lake transport charges except where an
oligopoly situation has been established, in which case
consideration can be given to maintaining the bracket rate
system.



- 88 -                           Annex XVI
(iii)     Shipvard
September 30, 1990        Technical and financial updating of feasibility studies
(completion).
Decision on possible Implementation only after a contract
has been signed with a private operator for the management
and operation of the shipyard, on the basis of assigment of
the relevant debt service to the operator.
C.        PASSENGER TRANSPORT
February 20, 1990        Approval of increase in urban fares from FBu 20 to FBu 30
for OTRACO and private operators (phase 1).
February 20, 1990         50 percent increase in interurban fares for OTRACO.
February 20, 1990         Establishment of a fare ceiling for the private sector.
May 30, 1990              Audit of OTRACO.
Establishment of a technical assistance mission within
OTRACO charged with establishing a system of cost accounting
and computerizing services.
May 30, 1990              Comprehensive study of mass transit (completion):
* reorganization of the sector;
* OTRACO fare system;
* institutions.
June 30, 1990            Application of sector reorganization measures (start) aimed
at coordinating public and private sector activities.
Definition of population groups qualifying for subsidies and
modalities for introducing this subsidy.
June 30, 1990             Review of OTRACO's performance contract.  Preparation of a
set of specifications (cahier des charges) for services of a
social nature provided by OTRACO and preciso definition of
the process for calculating the subsidy provided, with a
view to svlbsequent updating.
June 30, 1990             Review of OTRACO fares (phase 2).
June 30, 1990             Deregulation of private sector fares.
Evaluation of OTRACO's performance contract:
September 30              *  Quarterly monitoring
December 31                                u
March 31                                    of
June 30                   *  Yearly evaluation.
December 31, 1991         Review of OTRACO fares (phase 3).
each year                Yearly review of OTRACO fares.



-89 -                           Annex XVI
D.        INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
February 20, 1990        Draft directivo from the Government to BRB to clarify the
role of BRB in the allocation of import licenses in order to
make this procedure more transparent.
Publication in the national press.
Periodic publication of BRB rejections of import licenses
with indications of reasons.
June 30, 1990            Decentralixation of customs clearance procedures at Kayanza.
June 30, 1991            Decentralization of customs clearance procedures at Gitega.
E.        AIR TRANSPORT
December 31, 1990        Completion of study on development of air transport.
June 30, 1991            Implementatlon of action plan adopted by the Governmant on
the basis of the recommendations stemming from the study.
F.        ROAD FREIGHT TRAFFIC
June 30                  Yearly review of tariff and pricing structure for motor
each year                fuels and of the mechanism for recovering costs from road
users to ensure that costs of routine and periodic
maintenance will be corered.
June 30, 1990            Introduction of vehicle weighing scales at RN-1 and RN-5
border crossings.
June 30, 1990            Introduction of new regulations for motor vehicles (axle
load, total permitted live load, dimensions) and of measures
for verifying compliance with these regulations.
June 30, 1990            Abrogation of Ordinance of 1983.  Deregulation of
international and domestic freight rates. Publication of
indicative transport co-itsg to be updated annually.
December 31, 1989        Adoption of program for privatization of OTRABU.
June 30, 1990            Start of privatization process (sale of shares).
G.        ROAD MAINTENANCE
December 31, 1989        Confirmation of the Government's decision to finance
(a) road msintenance through the DGR with the aid of funds
from the National Road Fund, the Ordinary Budget and the
Investment Budget, in the amount of FBu 800 million a year
(in 1989 terms), over the period of execution of the   i
Transportation Sector Project (1990-94); (b) rehabilitation
of access roads to coffee washing stations ("coffee roads")
in an annual amount in FBu representing 15 percent of the



- 89 -                           Annex XVI
D.        INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
February 20, 1990        Draft directive from the Government to BRB to clarify the
role of BRB in the allocation of Import licenses in order to
make this procedure more transparent.
Publication in the national press.
Periodic publication of BRB rejections of import licenses
with indic&tions of reasons.
June 30, 1990            Decentralization of customs clearance procedures at Kayanza.
June 30, 1991            Decentralization ot customs clearance procedures at Gitega.
E.        AIR TRANSPORT
December 31, 1990         Completion of study on development of air transport.
June 30, 1991             Implementation of action plan adopted by the Government on
the basis of the recommendations stemding from the study.
F.        ROAD FREIGHT TRAFFIC
June 30                  Yearly review of tariff and pricing structure for motor
each year                 fuels and of the mechanism for recovering costs from road
uaers to ensure that costs of routine and periodic
maintenance will be covered.
June 30, 1990             Introduction of vehicle weighing scales at RN-1 and RN-5
border crossings.
June 30, 1990             Introduction of new regulations for motor vehicles (axle
load, total permitted live load, dimensions) and of measures
for verifying compliance with these regulations.
June 30, 1990            Abrogation of Ordinance of 1983. Deregulation of
international and domestic freight rates. Publication of
indicative transport costs, to be updated annually.
December 31, 1989        Adoption of program for privatization of OTRABU.
June 30, 1990            Start of privatization process (sale of shares).
G.        ROAD NAINTENANCE
December 31, 1989        Confirmation of the Government's decision to finance
(a) road maintenance through the DGR with the aid of funds
from the National Road Fund, the Ordinary Budget and the
Investment Budget, in the amount of FBu 800 million a year
(in 1989 terms), over the period of execution of the
Transportation Sector Project (1990-94)s (b) rehabilitation
of access roads to coffee washing stations (*coffee roads")
in an annual amount in FBu representing 15 perceut of the



-90 -                            Annex XVI
cost of the works to be carried out by the Government under
the Transportation Sector Project and the cost of project
management provided by DGii.
Relevant budgetary appropriation for 1990 effectuated.
June 30, 1990            Conc.usion of an agreement between the Ministry of
Agriculture and the MHPDU to define the role of the DGR in
the program for construction of roads serving the coffee
washing stations.
June 30, 1990            Establishment of a local financing mechanism for maintenance
of the roads serving the coffee washing stations.
June 30, 1990            Confirmation of the principle of transferring to DOR, in
quarterly installments, 50 percent of the funds allocated
for road maintenance by DGR and 100 percent of the funds
allocated for rehabilitation of the 'coffee roads," in two
separate bank accounts, with effective payment of the first
tranche.
Each quarter             Effective payment of the relevant tranche.
December 31              Budgetary allocation for the following year of the
each year                amounts requAred for maintenance of roads by DGR and for
rehabilitation of roads serving the coffee washing stations,
in accordance with the objectives and provisions of the
Transportation Sector Project.
H.        INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Ministry of Transportation. Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT)
June 30, 1990            Strengthening of MTPT's capacity to exercise supervision
(tutelle) over the sector by establishing within the
Directorate General for Transpottation (DGT) a Directorate
for Road Transportation with its own operating budget.
June 30, 1991            Establishment of a Directorate for Land Transportation and
strengthening of the Studies and Planning Unit, each with
its own operating budget.
June 30, 1990            Assignment of a Technical Assistant to DGT with
responsibility for monitoring the departments and companies
under the riinistry's supervision.
December 31              Budgetary allocation to DGT of the budget required each year
each year                to finance the counterpart funds needed for execution of the
transportation component of the Transportation Sector
Project.
July 1990 - June 1993    Under the Transportation Sector Project, definition and
implementation of a training program for Goverment



-91-                             Annex XVI
employees to provide them with the knowledge and experience
required to carry out their increased responsibilities for
execution and monitoring of the action program set forth
above.
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
June 30, 1990            Establishment by ministerial decree within DGR of:
* a road management unit,
* a unit to monitor road maintenance works carried out by
contractors and on force account.
Assignmen_ of two qualified Burundian counterparts to the
road management unit.
Assignment of three Burundian counterparts, either already
qualified or capable of receiving appropriate supplementary
training on the job, to the monitc.ing unit.
Implementation of the planned technical assistance for
execution of the road component of the Transportation Sector
Project.
Start-up of a training program for government employees and
employees of the sectoral enterprises for implementation of
the Transportation Sector Project.



Annex XVII
BURUNDI
Transport Sector Prolect
S.CTED DOCM T tJID DATA AVALALE IL PROJECT FILE
1.   Proposal by DGR for a Fifth Highway Project, October 1987.
2.   Evalus -ion Economique  Provisoire  des  Composantes  du  Projet,  DGR,
May/November 1988.
3.   Benefit/Cost Stream Data for the Road Program
4.   Document de Politique Sectorielle du MTPDU, March 1988.
5.   Document de Politique Sectorielle du MTPT, 1988.
6.   Aide-mimoire mission de pr;vahluation du Projet Sectoriel Transport,
October 1988.
7.   Aide-memoire mission de preparation du Projet Sectoriel Transport,
December 1988.
8.   Aide-memoire mission do priparation du Projet Sectoriel Transport,
February 1989.
9.   Projet de programe pluriannuel route et fiche* do projets, November
1988.
10.  Note concernant 1. financement des depenses routieres recurrentes et
lVentretien des pistes cafe (J.P.Diehl - consultant), December 1988.
11.  Pistes do desserte dos usines de lavage .u cafe de la SRD de Buyenzi -
Evaluation des travaux de rehabilitation, DGR, 3 et 13 janvier 1989.
12. The Great Lakes Corridor Study, World Bank, November 1988.
13. Etude de faisabilit doe ha RIG 9 Muzinda-Ndora, April 1988.



BURUNDI
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Ofgankaion of Ministry ot Public Works nd Urban Dlop nt (MTPDU)
[411
UrbaW                            d |&A (DOM7
Mm              *d       NMnerd t                            d
Hwekg    DwWYX   -rM)               (D         (DJ   X   I   9 , Lj i
M*Conmm   I    DM"                                  Conl P_ 
Wodu 1t1
1/ToboeredunftftTr_oaSdaP 4d



BURUNDI
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of Msthry of Tao , Pots and
TeIs.ommunlaUn (MP)
I   ,  ~~~~~~~I
TO
pwn 
l ,MWaL
ofl                              



2~~~~~~~
_~~~~~~~ %                   _L
It 
f f~~~i 
-   - . U -   - . - H -T r  - T T -   f.- rf r   -
a'-.~~~~~~l
r  *      $^         r        1      ' '  d       t___          :
1[[IIs tFj ff11   gs ff11   Uh   Ii .
i~~~~~~~~~                                  V                   '                       
X~~~~~~ ~~ 3  3l   '3 1 
-   -   -   -   -   -  -   -                       _         S
--              ----                    ---           ----- -.'    ______ _________
-7-    -     -   -    - -     - - -                         -
-        - - - 7- -                        -        -   -  -   -   -   -   -
*  a        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
-   -   -   -   -   -  -~~ -   -   -a 
1- -     -     - ~ - ~ -     -~  7-    -     -     -  - ~ -     -  -     -     -     -     -  -     -     -     -
*  a   a  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*i a                   
__ __         ___        a__         ______   __________                        _
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _    .   .,    .          a
*        a a~         a a~         7a~       ~     
*  a *   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  a a  a a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ __                 a            a .                 S
______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _      __ a         a   _    a      _     a     _    _ ___ _
I _ _ __ _ _   __ _ _   __ _   _ _ _ _   _ __ _ _          __ a  _   __ a  a  a
______    __   _   ___    _____    _____    _____    __l_~aa a  a 



Xt   ,/ X r      Z                     H                                                                              e   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 21 1 8
U  G  A  N  D   Al                          abo Web                                               GREAT LAKES REGION
AVgg                                   Idorat _  _INTERNATIONAL SURFACE TRANSPORT
Ka                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONNECTIONS:1991
Pa.ed rcoads
kum                        ~~~~~~~~~~Uvpo..d roads
-°she Mboa                  11                                                                                             -       Railways
Ntirng_mo                                                     Kisi               K KE    N    Y    A                     Lake navigation
Ru ur   bat        't.-._._ --i-b a ~ >4 /                                                                                               C,Iies or towns
S Rutshurutt.  lXok   -Zeukoba   *   -~. <ebenlo              Umora                          *-S--  International boundaries
<           GomaGutun NR.I.s                                              Mu  na                                     NAI      ahoko
\   r R  W  N   \t   /   *.  ;    , ov?  S E R E N G e T /S-   wulfn Hamud
Cyonoromub h    ovramul -hoc
IUANA    /        5       5        /                         
Z  A
*I    S                                                  . I R  E t  j                          imyon%o
F' zutMmb lra         0                       I                                                                         M o   #Momboi 
Q / \_,*%~~~~~~ypnrc Lac >/\*
\   j * Kigoman  Sngid.                                                                 / o                                            t
,A    t4I&tOZ~uBo  Z-  A    M,B_, A                           T      A     N      Z     A       N   | I     A.                                            ',
.5..-~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  g
CHAO;   ,!  DJI.O_w.   t   <'.                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES SALAAM
!       t.   / K~~~ENYA iV5 
z I e eebmbJrtVeURu"Dl -s !+/ , Kl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOMETERS 0                           ,     10,0         200          300         400 
-.GOLA }        tA''Mpulurguo                                             \  snniT                                             w ls    -;0=
F  yji._  4,iMoZAMBlOUE       ~~~Z    A      M    B    I   A                                                                           _4e
NAOeOE    fwe( LZ?AGW                             30-                                                                   35 -                                                                   D-
OCTOBR 1



I   l   ,~~~~~~RE  SUDAN  ETHE£PIA                   .     c
PEP S               (                         BJURUNDI
OF      RWN                          TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ZAiRE  LoLct <'ROAD SYSTEM
XC~AN                  z r1n9cnr/;  r=                    RWANDA
A-.LA'4n~ ~~~~~~~ZAiL
MOZAMDIOIA ci w            j     .
29W
a                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nk
SW~ ~ ~~~~WD
4    IXI 9 >?<\t>z g   |||~~~~~~MUMTobllgtb_IWS~
<S  4    //   TANZANIA      * -PFr~~ANZMI
-3W
-    DAOuWK BosmdanM   4
f                _S~~~-a--~         ,g  pXF 
B     r     sollr   r- -
--a - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ W
235              X4.4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0*0
Z TRE  



