Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2105 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 20, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2105 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February 19, 1990, from 
the Borrower describing a program of policies, goals and actions designed to achieve 
an adjustment of the Borrower's transport sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has contracted or intends to contract from other sources 
(the Cofinanciers) other financial contributions in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
twenty-two million Dollars ($22,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) entered into 
or to be entered into between the Borrower and the other Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
Page  2
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MTPDU" means Ministere des Travaux Publics et du Developpement Urbain, 
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development;
(b)
"MTPT" means Ministere des Transports, Postes et Telecommunications, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Transport, Posts and Telecommunications;
(c)
"MAE" means Ministere de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development;
(d)
"DGR" means Direction Generale des Routes, the General Directorate for 
Roads of MTPDU; 
(e)
"DGT" means Direction Generale des Transports, the General Directorate 
for Transport of MTPT;
(f)
"OTRABU" means Office des Transports du Burundi, the Borrower's Freight 
Transport Board;
(g)
"OTRACO" means Office des Transports en Commun, the Borrower's Passenger 
Transport Board;
(h)
"Coffee Road Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 3 (b) 
(ii) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Control Unit" means the unit to be established and maintained in DGR for 
the purpose of quantity and quality control of works as provided for in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement;
(j)
"Road Planning Unit" means unit, Cellule de Gestion Routiere, to be 
established and maintained in DGR for the purpose of roads construction and 
maintenance planning as provided for in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(l)
"Project Account" means the account or accounts referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(m)
"FBu" and "Franc Burundais" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(n)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which runs 
concurrently with the calendar year. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
32,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  3
Dollars a special account in a banking institution satisfactory to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2000 and ending March 15, 2030. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2010 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal  amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the  Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
`Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project through DGT and Part B of the Project through DGR with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, establish and 
maintain in DGR two units (the Road Planning Unit and the Control Unit) each with 
staff, organization and functions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time and 
in any case not later than October 31 in each year during Project implementation, 
starting in 1990, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project 
and the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the following 
documentation: (i) a draft three-year rolling public investment and expenditure 
program for MTPT and MTPDU for the period commencing on the following January 1 
including a statement of the technical and economic justification for any new 
investment exceeding $3,500,000 equivalent; (ii) MTPT's and MTPDU's draft budgets for 
the next Fiscal Year; and (iii) a draft road maintenance work program for the next 
Fiscal Year, including a  description of activities of the brigades and contractors 
and a plan of utilization of the equipment and materials.
(c)
In formulating MTPT's and MTPDU's budgets the Borrower shall: (i) give 
priority to road maintenance over new construction; and (ii) allocate every year to 
road maintenance not less than the equivalent of five million two hundred thousand 
Dollars ($5,200,000) in constant 1989 Dollars or such other amount as shall be agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Association.
(d)
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as practicable 
after the exchange of views referred to in paragraph (a) above, but in any event 
before January 15 in the year following such exchange of views, the following 
documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Association: (i) a three-year 
rolling public investment and expenditure program for MTPT and MTPDU for the period 
commencing January 1 in the year following such exchange of views; (ii) MTPT and 
MTPDU's budgets for the Fiscal Year following such exchange of views; (iii) a road 
maintenance work program for the Fiscal Year following such exchange of views, 
including
a description of activities of the brigades and contractors and a plan of utilization 
of the equipment and materials.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to finance its share of the investment, maintenance 
and other operating costs under Part B of the Project and without limitation to the 
generality of Section 3.01 with regard to the provision of funds, the Borrower shall:
(i)
make adequate allocation in its recurrent budget for salaries and 
office 
operation expenditures; and
 
(ii)
make adequate allocation in its investment budget for all Project 
expenditures 
to be financed by the Borrower out of its own resources.
 
(b)
In order to disburse the allocations made pursuant to paragraph (a) (ii) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
open, and thereafter maintain, in FBu in the name of 
MTPDU/DGR-Transport 
Sector Project, an account or accounts 
(hereinafter called the Project 
Account) in a banking institution 
acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to 
the Association;
Page  5
(ii)
deposit into such Project Account an initial amount equivalent to 
FBu 
110,000,000 in constant 1989 Francs Burundais; and
 
(iii)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account not later than March 
31, June 30, 
September 30 and December 31 in each year during Project 
implementation, a sum 
necessary to replenish the Project Account up 
to the initial amount referred 
to in the preceding sub-paragraph.
 
(c)
Amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to paragraph (b) of 
this Section shall be used only to make payments to meet local expenditures made or to 
be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project and 
not eligible for financing under the Credit. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Part B (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement with regard to the provision of funds and to Section 3.04 of this Agreement:
(a)
set up funding mechanisms for the Coffee Road Account on terms and 
conditions and at a level satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
after deposit of the initial amount referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, deposit into the Coffee Road Account, not later than 
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each year during Project 
implementation, a sum necessary to replenish it up to the said initial amount. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 in each year commencing in 1990, furnish to 
the Association a proposed training program for the following calendar year;
(b)
not later than one month thereafter, exchange views with the Association 
on the proposed training program referred to in the preceding paragraph;
(c)
not later than December 15 in each such year, furnish to the Association 
a finalized training program for the following calendar year satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(d)
implement Parts A.2 and B.5 (d) of the Project in accordance with the 
finalized training program referred to in the preceding paragraph.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, a 
certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has 
received the audit 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The implementation of the Program shall have been suspended or terminated 
or shall have materially deviated from such Program as defined in paragraph (A) of the 
Preamble to this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any of the Cofinancing Agreements 
shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms 
of such Agreements.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has instituted mechanisms satisfactory to the Association to 
recover the cost to the Borrower of periodic and routine road maintenance from the 
users of such roads including, but not limited to, the setting of taxes and prices for 
petroleum products at a level acceptable to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has made an allocation satisfactory to the Association in 
its 1990  budget for the road operations of DGR and has deposited into the Project 
Account the initial amount referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
Page  7
(c)
the performance contract between the Borrower and OTRACO, dated December 
28, 1988 has been amended in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the tariffs 
charged by OTRACO have been set at a level acceptable to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has removed the ceilings for tariffs charged by private 
operators in passenger transport and the ceilings for tariffs charged for goods 
transported by road and has set the ceilings for the tariffs charged for lake 
transport at a level acceptable to the Association;
(e)
the Road Planning Unit and the Control Unit have been established in DGR 
in accordance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
the Borrower has appointed the following staff whose experience and 
qualifications are satisfactory to the Association: (i) two engineers for the Road 
Planning Unit; and (ii) three engineers for the Control Unit; and  
(g)
the Borrower has issued a directive satisfactory to the Association 
governing the granting of import licenses by the Banque de la Republique du Burundi 
and has published it in the local press.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura
Republique du Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
5135 MINIFIN-BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:                        85%
   (a) for              1,850,000
       Part B (3)
       of the
       Project
   (b) other           10,830,000
(2) Equipment,                          100% of foreign
    materials and                       expenditures and
    supplies:                           80% of local
                                        expenditures
   (a) for Part A (4)   1,590,000
       of the Project
   (b) other            3,630,000
(3) Technical           4,510,000       100% of foreign
    assistance                          expenditures and
                                        80% of local
                                        expenditures
(4) Studies             1,820,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
                                        80% of local
                                        expenditures
(5) Training              760,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
                                        80% of local
                                        expenditures
(6) Unallocated         7,710,000
       TOTAL           32,700,000
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services  supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category (1) (a) of paragraph 1 above until: (i) an arrangement 
satisfactory to the Association to define the responsibilities of DGR in the carrying 
out of Part B (3) of the Project has been entered into between MAE and MTPDU; (ii) a 
Coffee Road Account to provide for the local financing of Part B (3) of the Project 
has been established and is satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) an initial 
amount equivalent to $100,000 has been deposited in such Coffee Road Account; and (c) 
under Category (2) (a) of paragraph 1 above until the transport studies described 
under Part A.3 of the Project have been completed and the Borrower has implemented the 
recommendations made pursuant thereto acceptable to the Association in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are, as part of the execution of the Program: (i) 
to increase funding of, and to consolidate and improve, maintenance practices and 
institutions in the Borrower's road sector; (ii) to provide support to coffee 
production and marketing through improvement and maintenance of the access roads to 
the production areas; (iii) to develop the transport sector planning capabilities of 
MTPDU and MTPT; and (iv) to liberalize economic activities in the Borrower's transport 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Support and Transport Sector Investment
 
1.
(a)
strengthen the Borrower's planning capacity; (b) create a transport data 
base; (c) assist the Borrower's monitoring of international transport; (d) prepare 
international transport policies to diversify export routes and lowering transport 
costs; and (e) reorganize the Borrower's institutions dealing with transportation.
2.
Training of DGT staff, including seminars and courses abroad.
 
3.
Transport-related studies, including: (a) traffic conditions in Bujumbura, road 
safety and regulation; (b) navigation and development of fishing port facilities in 
Lake Tanganyika; and (c) air transport development. 
4.
Implementation of recommendations of studies described under the preceding 
paragraph. 
Part B:
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
 
1.
Improvement and maintenance of the Borrower's paved road network.
 
2.
Improvement and maintenance of the Borrower's unpaved road network.
 
3.
Improvement and maintenance of access roads to coffee washing stations.
 
4.
Studies on equipment management.
 
5.
DGR's institutional strengthening through: (a) creation and operation of a road 
planning unit; (b) creation and operation of a work supervision unit; (c) technical 
Page  10
assistance; and (d) training.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each and contracts for 
equipment, materials and supplies shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
3.
Bidders for works shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines. 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.l hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.l hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 and not less 
than the equivalent of $50,000, up to an aggregate not to exceed the equivalent of 
$15,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
Civil works, equipment, materials and supplies estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
Page  11
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants and experts whose qualifications,  experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
made 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be  utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional  evidence as  the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or  refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
