Report No. PID6535
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Export Diversification Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Private Sector
Project ID                       BDPE49790
Implementing Agencies
Ministry of Commerce
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Mr. Golam Rahman
Additional Secretary
Telephone: 880-2-869648
National Board of Revenue
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Mr. Mahbubul Rahman
Member, Export/Audit
880-2-412532
Date Prepared                    December 23, 1997
Projected Board Date             July 1998
1.              Project Objectives
The goals of the project are to increase the range, depth, and thus
growth rate of net export production, as a major engine of growth for an
economy with limited domestic purchasing power. Since growth based on export
diversification is expected to be labor intensive, the project should make an
early direct contribution towards poverty alleviation as well as through its
longer term effect of expanding the economy. The means chosen for promoting
diversification (see description below) should also lay the foundation for
reducing corruption and inefficiency in the public revenue services,
especially Customs, thus improving competitiveness by cutting the costs of
doing business; and it should strengthen private sector institutions and their
effective involvement in policy making.
2.               Project Description
As outlined at this stage,    the bulk of the funds provided under
the project will finance a soundly administered "matching grant facility"
and other cofinancing of industry initiatives to develop new export products
and markets. These will include, inter alia, improving and certifying
product quality, meeting sanitary, phytosanitary and other market-required
standards, improving delivery performance, training executives and technicians
in export-related skills, and piloting new markets. In addition, the project
would support various public and joint private-cum-public capacity building
activities to support such export diversification. In particular, it would:
(a) initiate a medium term -- i.e ., 5 or 6-year -- program for the
modernization of Customs and other tax administration, focussing initially on
expediting export clearance and broadening the coverage of the special
arrangements for "imports for export"; (b) resume IDA support for trade
policy analysis by the Tariff Commission, thus providing technical support for



the further liberalization to which the Government may commit itself either in
a forthcoming GOB/IMF/IDA Policy Framework Paper or somewhat later when the
project has helped build the necessary commitment; (c) strengthen some
public institutions to backstop or complement the private product and market
development initiatives; (d) help GOB institutions develop strong technical
capability in the negotiation of global and regional cooperation arrangements,
enforcement of their obligations, and assistance for the exploitation of
opportunities they provide for private entrepreneurs to expand trade; and (e)
develop and then institutionalize a sustainable private/public capacity to
identify export constraints as they arise in a dynamic environment, and to
formulate politically and economically feasible solutions to relieve them.
3.              Project Implementation
Two approaches will be used:   (a)  Capacity building activities in
public and other institutions without significant beneficiary cofunding would
be financed through several technical assistance subprojects located in the
concerned institutions but coordinated by a Project Implementation Unit. This
would report to a Steering Committee chaired by the Ministry of Commerce and
also including the other main organizations concerned: National Board of
Revenue, Finance Division, Bangladesh Bank, Bangladesh Tariff Commission,
Export Promotion Bureau, Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and
Industry, and IDA. (b) An Export Assistance Fund would be established at
Bangladesh Bank and managed by a contracted Administrator reporting to the
same Steering Committee. Matching grants would be provided to individual
export firms or groups including industry associations, to cofinance product
and market development activities meeting prescribed eligibility criteria.
The criteria would be agreed before negotiation of the Credit.
4.               Project Cost and Financing
Total Cost               $31 million
IDA                      $21 million
GOB/Beneficiaries        $10 million
5.              Environmental Aspects
EA Category ............C
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 19, 1998.
This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



