Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19250-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32 MiLLION EQUIVALENT
TO
BANGLADESH
FOR AN
EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
May 10, 1999
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate effective May 6, 1999)
Currency Unit = Taka
47.705 Taka = US$1
US$1 = 0.020962
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
BTC        Bangladesh Tariff Commission
CM-1       Customs Administration Modernization- Phase 1 (subproject in Component 2)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DEDO       Duty Exemption and Drawback Office
EPB        Export Promotion Bureau
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (of the IMF)
GDP        Gross domestic product
GOB        Government of Bangladesh
ICB        International competitive bidding
LACI       Loan Adcninistration Change Initiative
MGF        Matching Grant Facility (subproject in Component 1)
MOC        Ministry of Commerce
NBR        National Board of Revenue
PATC       Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation (subproject in Component 2)
PCU        Project Coordination and Development Unit (subproject in Component 2)
PD         Project director (for coordination or of subprojects)
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PIP        Project implementation plan
PMDS       Product and market development support (= Project Component 1)
RAMP       Revenue Administration Modernization Programme
SBW        Special bonded warehouse
TOR        Terms of reference
TMCB       Trade management capacity building (= Project Component 2)
TPCBP    Trade Policy Capacity Building Project (parallel ftnding by UK DFID)
UK DFID   United Kingdom Department for International Development
llNCTAD United Nations Conference on Trade and Developmenit
WCO        World Customs Organization
WTO        World Trade Organization
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Frederick Temple
Sector Unit Manager: Marilou Uy
Task Leader Charles Draper



Banizladesh
Export Diversification Proiect
CONTENTS
Proiect Description
1.     Project development objectives ..........................................5
2.     Project components ...........................................5
3.     Benefits and target p)opulation ...........................................6
4.     Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................6
Proiect Rationale
5.  CAS objective(s) supported by the project                          .9
6.   Main sector issues and Government strategy .10
7.     Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .12
8.     Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .15
9.     Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .15
10.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .16
11.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .16
12. Value added of Bank Support .17
Summary Project Assessments
13. Economic Assessment .17
14.  Fiscal and Financial Assessment .18
15. Technical Asscssnent .19
16. Institutional Assessment .19
17. Social Assessment .21
18. Environmental Assessment .21
19. Participatory Approach .21
20.    Sustaina bility.21
21. Critical Risks .22
22.  Possible Controversial Aspects .23
Main Loan Conditions
23.    Effectiveness Conditions .......................                                          23
24. Other ........................23
Compliance with Bank Policies ....................... 23
ANNEXES
1. Project Design Summary .25
IA.  Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators .28
2.  Detailed Project Description .31
2A.    Matching Grant Facility Policies and Operating Procedures .39
2B.  Estimated Demand for Matching Grants .47
2C.    Experience with Matching Grants and Other Support Systems .52
2D.    New Procedures and Arrangements for Customs Administration .54
3.  Estimated Project Costs .64
4. Financial Summary.                                                                            65
6.   Procurement Financial Management and Disbursemet .66
7.  Project Processing Budget and Sciedule .74
8.  Documents in the Project File .75
9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .77
10. Country at a Glance .78






Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 4
Country: Bangladesh                                                    Project Title: Export Diversification Project
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSociATIoN
South Asia Region
Finance and PSD Sector Unit
Project Appraisal Document
Bangladesh
Export Diversification Project
Date: May 10, 1999                                                     [  Draft      [X] Final
Task Manager: Charles Draper                         Country Director: Frederick Temple
Project ID: 49790      Sector: Multi Sector          Project Objective Category: PV,EA
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Credit     PTI:        [3  Yes          [x3 No
Project Financing Data             [ Loan          [x] Credit    []Guarantee    Other [Specify]
Amount (US$m/SDRm):  $32.0 million /23.6 million SDR
Proposed Terms:          Standard
Grace period             10 Years
Years to maturity.       40 years
Commitment fee.          0 5%
Service charge:          0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign         Total
Govemment                                                  3 9                0.0            3 9
IDA                                                        17 5              14.5           32.0
Firms and groups receiving matching grants                 12.0                             12 0
Chambers, industry associations                             0.1               0.0            0.1
Total       33.5              14.5            48.0
[Parallel: UK DepartnentforlInternationalDevelopmnent       0.4               0 5             0.9
Total       33.9 _15.0                        8.9 1
Borrower:            Government of Bangladesh
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Commerce (including Bangladesh Tariff Commission),
National Board of Revenue / Customs,
Federation of Chambers of Commerce & Industry
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                1998/99     1999/2000   2000/01    2001/02
Annual       1 2         12.5         8.3        10.0
Cumulative      1.2          13.7        22.0       32.0
Expected effectiveness date: June 15, 1999                            Closing date: December 31, 20021



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 5
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Proiect Descrintion
1. Project development objectives and performance indicators
(1) The Project's main goal is to accelerate Bangladesh's integration into the world economy by expanding net
export production value through product and market diversification, including increased value added. The primary
approach to this purpose is promotion of private market solutions to exporters' skill and information needs.
(2) Important subsidiary goals are to improve the business environment for industry and commerce generally -- and
thus help create employment and GDP growth - through reforms in trade policy, Customs administration, and
elsewhere to reduce costs now imposed by policy, procedural and infrastructural impediments. The Customs reforms
are particularly important, as the Project initiates a serious attack oii the corruption and inefficiency in revenue
collection which now consititutes a major business impediment.
(3) The extent of achievement of the overall goal by the end of the Project period (mid-2002) will be measured in
terms of increases in exports' share of GDP (which itself should grow faster as a result), increases in net value added
in export production, and declines in product/market concentration indices, compared with base FY1998/99. Larger
gains in each case should accrue beyond the Project period (from FY 2002/03 onwards), as the Project is intended to
lead exporters up a entrepreneurial skill learning curve and to create a broader export base on which the more
skilled entrepreneurs can build. Progress by mid-2002 will be measured qualitatively.
(4) Progress on achieving the broader business environment and public administration goals will be measured in
terms of improvements in service delivery in selected Customs operations, either the resumption of trade
liberalization or enhanced public and official readiness for such reform, and sustainable enhancement of capacity in
several trade policy and export service agencies        (See Annexes I and IA for speciJfic achievement indicators)
2. Project components                                                  (See Annex 2for detailed descriptions)
The Project is divided into two broad components, one providing product and market development support to private
firms, and one dealing with trade management capacity building mainly in the public sector. Each comprises self-
contained but coordinated subprojects to address particular institutional needs.
(I) The product and market development support component emphasizes entrepreneur capacity building and
promoting markets in export support services:
-  Its main subproject consists of administration and advisory services for the operation of a matching grant facility
for exporting firms, groups of such firms, and service providers (MGF)
-  Funding for the facility is also part of the Project and its supporting IDA Credit.
*  Smaller subprojects to strengthen selected public, private and public/private support service providers, not
amenable to matching grants, are expected to be developed and implemented during the Project period
(2) The trade management capacity building component contains three subprojects focussed on key aspects of the
policy and institutional environment for export and other business
*  One constitutes the first phase of Customs modernization, including more rapid clearance for exports and their
imported inputs, better bonded warehousing and duty drawback schemes, automation through ASYCUDA++ or
an equivalent system and through other management information systems, the piloting of post-event audit, risk-
management and other modem methods, taxpayer education, and extensive staff training (CM-i). As well as
initiating Customs reform, this subproject serves as the first significant step in a more far-reaching program to
modernize the whole revenue administration which will be supported in future projects.
*  Another subproject will strengthen capacity in the Bangladesh Tariff Commission for trade data and protection
policy analysis, and in both BTC and the Ministry of Commerce for international and regional trade cooperation
(PATC), The first of these aspects will provide a strong technical basis for the expected resumption of trade
liberalization, while the second will enhance Bangladesh's participation in cooperation arrangements.
*  A coordination and development unit will undertake analysis of export constraints and institutional change needs,
formulate new subprojects to support exporters, and facilitate and monitor the other Project activities (PCU).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 6
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Comtponent                          Cate-      Cost       L. Z       IDA        % of
j¢orV   [ (USSm)     Total    (US$m)       IDA
Product and market development support (PMDS)            |i stit-      29.73      61.9       16.80     52.5
(a) Fuinding for Matching Grant Facility (MGF)              ution      24 00       50.0      12 00      37.5
building
(b) MGFsubproject (administration and advisory services)  (mainly       4 46        9.3       3 80      11.9
(c) New subprojects to be developed                        private)     1.27       2.6        1.00       3.1
Trade management capacity building (TMCB)                  Instit-     16.49     34.4        13.90     43.4
(a) Custons Modernlization, Plhase-i subproject (CM-1)      ution       9 61      20.0        8 25     25.8
building
(b) Protectiotn Analysis and Trade Cooperation subptroiect (PATC) *  (mainly  4 03  8.4       3 30     10.3
(c) Project Coordination and Development Unit subproject (PCU)  public)  2 84     5.9         2 35      7.3
(also inicludes provision for separate audit/evaluation)  '      _                   l
Unallocated (contingency and/or additional subprojects)  i        i    1.78      3.7          1.30     4.1
Project Total                                                         48.00    100.0        32.00    100.0
*Parallel UKDFID Trade Policy Capacity Building Project                 0 85
Total incluidinig DFID                                                 48 85
(See Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.)
3. Benefits and target population
(1) The expected benefits of the Project will accrue initially to current and potential owners and workers of export
production units which are able to take advantage of both an improved operating environment and market-based
support for their development of new products and markets. Most fimns receiving such support will be small and
medium sized enterprises. Many export industry employees are female Since some of the improvements in public
management capacity are designed to facilitate backward links, the beneficiaries should include rural workers and
othier producers of inputs and intermediates who now have limited, if any access to export markets.
(2) The expected success of the initial beneficiary firms should encourage others to take up the export challenge,
leading in the medium term to significant increases in the quantity and range of exports and consequently in
enmployment, the balance of payments, and the economy's growth rate
(3) Further indirect benefits will accrue to consumers and taxpayers respectively if, as intended, the strengthening of
BTC analysis and formal reviews facilitate further tariff reform, and the streamlining of export-related Customs
operations paves the way for more far-reaching modernization of the revenue administration.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
(a) Implementation period
Commencing in June, 1999 with substantive work concluding 36 months later . A further 12 weeks for impact
analysis and external audit of the project will occur before the closing date of December 31, 2002. The period may be
extended by six months depending on the disbursement rate of the MGF. Three-year contracts have been approved for
four consulting firms which will mobilize their teams i-mnediately upon Credit effectiveness.
(b) Executing agencies
(1) Ministry of Commerce for overall project matters including the Coordination and Development Unit, the MGF,
and some of the new subprojects to be developed during the Project. (2) Bangladesh Tariff Commission in
cooperation with that Ministry for the PATC subproject. (3) National Board of Revenue for the CM-I subproject.
(4) Other agencies may execute some of the new subprojects (e g., Fisheries, Standards, Quota management).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 7
Country: Bangladesh                                                                   Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Project Structure
Overs!phi             Su Pervision/Coordination                  Subproiect Implermentation
|MGF                          'Matching Grant Facility
BOARD                    -     a MfGF Administration & Advisory
Scrviccs; Grants to export firms,
groups thereof, and service providers
to promote innovation and learning
Product & market development:
support rPMDS) component
GOB STEERING             TECICA                                 Other PMD Subprojects
COMMITTEE                COMMITTEE  i                           To bc developed by PCU for Steering
Cttec and IDA clearance - eg. in
quota allocation, scaf
j AUDIT j        i Project Coordination
l TT', & Development Unit  #                           _  Protection Analysis and
PCU for project management;              Trade Cooperation (PATC)
constraints & institutional analysis     Strengthening RTC & M9OC technical
and new sub-project development         __(IU   FD
aatv& . base ,  UK DF
Trade management capacity
building (77hICS) component,
-   Customs Administration j
RAMP>" '             -        ^, Modernization - Phase 1
GROU1'                        * ,Ne ITI MIS; SBW & DDB schemes;
IN iNBDR                      { rapki clearance: pilot basic reforms
(c) Project coordination                                                            (see chart on Project Structure)
(1) The Project Coordination and Development Unit (PCU) will be the operating arm of the Technical Comrnittee
(see below) so its facilitation and monitoring function will be ensured through collaboration among the project
directors and advisory teams of the several subprojects (including new ones under the PMDS component which it will
help develop). It will be staffed bv three full-time advisors (an internationallv recruited Chief Technical Advisor, a
Deputy CTA and a Financial Management Specialist), a procurement specialist. a variety of international and local
short-term experts, and seconded staff of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry Apart from their
project coordination tasks, the PCU advisors and experts will be engaged in substantive work on export constraints
and institutional reorganization.
(2) Each subproject also will have its own internal coordination arrangements. with functions shared between the
relevant project director and the contracted firm represented by a senior technical advisor (or equivalent); these will
be accountable respectively for the official facilitation and control of project activities, and for the flow of expert
inputs including the quality of their products and the effective transfer of skills to local staff. In the case of the
Customs subproject, the PD and the senior advisor will be coordinating several complementary activities: the
contracted team of advisors and trainers, the involvement of WCO for further training; the involvement of UNCTAD
in the installation of ASYCUDA++ (or of an alternative supplier and system) and related training; and the
procurement of equipment. Particular care will be taken to ensure that equipment and training are delivered
appropriately to facilitate and complement process and organizational reform.
(3) Project tasks will be closely coordinated with complementary activities outside the Project itself, including: (a)
the parallel Trade Policy Capacity Building Project and proposed WTO help in the case of PATC, and (b) the
Customs subproject's relationship with (i) UK support for VAT reform over the same three-year period, and (ii)
proposed support for parallel reforms in the income tax service for which another IDA operation may be requested.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 8
Country: Bangladesh                                                    Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(d) Project oversight and policy guidance                            (see chart on Project Structure)
(1) The Steering Committee is chaired by the Secretary of Commerce with the Chairman of NBR and the President
of the Federation as other core members, joined by heads of participating agencies. NBR Members for Customs and
for Administration and Reform, Chairman of BTC, Director-General of Duty Exemption and Drawback Office, and
Vice-Chairman of Export Promotion Bureau. Participation may be invited where relevant from other Ministry heads
- e.g., Secretaries of Finance, Economic Relations, and Planning, and Governor of Bangladesh Bank.
(2) The SC will be supported by a Technical Committee chaired by the Project Director for Coordination
(Additional Secretary of Commerce) and comprising the other PDs (senior officials of NBR and BTC) and the senior
technical advisors or equivalent (i e the leaders of the consulting teams for the various subprojects).
(3) It will be supported also by an Audit Committee - see (e) below
(4) The matching grant facility will be supervised by a separate MGF Board comprising an independent chairman,
representatives of the FBCCI and participating industry associations (three selected annually from among the
associations), and senior officials of Commerce and Finance The chief of the MGF management unit (as secretary)
and the CTA from the PCU will participate as non-voting members. Policy guidance is provided through the
Statement ofPolicies and Operating Procedures for the Matching Grant Facility (see An7tex 2A).
(e) Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements                           (See Anniex 6)
(1) The PCU will maintain a computerized financial management, accounting, disbursement and reporting system for
the Project and its subprojects in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and practices and using
the World Bank Group's "COSTAB" and "LACI" formats. To facilitate this, the PCU staff will include a full-time
Financial Management Specialist who will report to the PD for Coordination through the CTA, and will supervise an
Accountant, the part-time Procurement Specialist, and the Unit's support staff. They will prepare and operate under
quarterly and annual budgets and an accounts manual, with advice from IDA's resident PDAT staff as needed to
ensure consistency with IDA requirements under OP/BP 10.02.
(2) A Special Account will be opened either in the central bank or in a designated commercial bank. Disbursements
will be made by the PCU or NBR project officials directly from the Special Account
(3) The accounts and records to be maintained will be capable of disclosing a true and fair view of the financial
situation and of facilitating progress monitoring for each subproject and for the Project as a whole. While accounts
will be kept on a cash basis (following GOB practice), outstanding expenditures will be accounted for review at least
annually Activity-based subsidiary records will be generated and kept current on a daily basis by subproject staff,
with guidance from the FMS and technical assistance as necessary from the Accountant and other PCU staff.
(4) Formal reporting will include detailed quarterly and annual statements in standard format prepared for review
and clearance by the Technical Committee, with summaries for the Steering Committee and IDA (and for the MGF
Board with respect to that subproject).
(5) Annual financial statements will be audited by an independent audit firn acceptable to IDA, and also by the
Office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General (C&AG) to ensure compliance with GOB rules and regulations.
Internal controls will include a separate Audit Committee advising the Steering Committee, proper segregation of
functional responsibilities, joint-signing of checks after clearance by the FMS, verification of procurement proposals,
monthly reconciliation of bank accounts, and regular detailed reporting
(Further details andfonnats are provided in the Borrower's Project Implententalion Plan (PIP) and in Annex 6. section B of this PAD)
(G) Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
(1) The PCU will be primarily responsible for Project monitoring and evaluation of progress being made towards
achieving the development objectives. It will develop benchmarks based on the project design summary (see Annex I)
and to be agreed with IDA and GOB, and will track inputs, processes, outputs and impact of all Project activities
using occasional PCU surveys of users' satisfaction, IDA staffs Periodic Economic Updates, official export
statistics, criteria the PCU will develop to measure success in training and other capacity building activities, and its
own specification and measurement of impact indicators (e.g,, export/GDP and value added/export ratios, Gini



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 9
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
coefficients, process cost/time reductions for business, and familiarity with external markets and practices).
(2) On a routine basis, the PCU will collaborate with subproject personnel in monitoring the implementation
schedules using "MS PROJECT" charts to be annexed to the PIP, and proposing adjustments to them as needed to
maximize Project benefits. Such adjustments would be approved by the Technical Committee and - for significant
changes -- by the Steering Committee and IDA
(3) Complementing the responsibilities of the Project Directors, the four contracted consultancy finns will be
accountable for the timely delivery and quality of the inputs and outputs promised under their contracts with GOB.
Therefore the four lead firms' headquarters are expected to play key roles in monitoring the performance of their own
teams in the field to help achieve the Project's objectives
(4) Internal Bank research has shown that TA projects are more likely to succeed when they are supervised
intensively Accordingly, IDA's country and sector managements intend to allocate sufficient administrative
resources over the next three years to facilitate regular supervision missions. These will (a) review and discuss
progress revealed by PCU and subproject monitoring documentation, and (b) participate in workshops and other
events to help assess stakeholders' perceptions of the Project's implenientation.
(5) Finally, provision has been made in the Project budget for GOB/FBCCI/MGF Board to employ separate
consultants acceptable to IDA to undertake independent evaluations of impact, conducted both at the Project's mid-
tenn (around December 2000) and following the 36-month period (i.e in July/August 2002). These will include
client surveys, and will focus particularly on (a) the sustainability of the capacity building activities and (b) the
degree and nature of measurable diversification that should have already begun to result from the grant facility and
other product and market development support activities.
(See Annex I for performance indicators in sunnary and Annexes IA, 2A and 2D (3)for nmore detail.)
Project Rationale
5. CAS objectives supported by the project                    CAS docunment number 17453-BD
Date of latest CAS discussion: March 31, 1998
(1) The Project supports several substantive and procedural CAS goals First, in substance it aims to accelerate
economic growth by improving the environment for private sector development, addressing all of the export-
related actions stated in the Country Program for that purpose, viz.
...prepare and implement time-bound trade liberalization program, based on a review by the
Bangladesh Tariff Commission; address policy distortions and institutional constraints that lead to
anti-export bias; improve functioning of key public sector agencies that interface with the private
sector - National Board of Revenue, Export Promotion Bureau, Tariff Commission ...; strengthen
the capacity of the Ministry of Commerce to use WTO arrangements and (the) Multi-fiber
Arrangement to ensure export competitiveness and introduce required export/import policy
changes; enhance private sector participation in formulating investment and tax/tariff policies; and
design and implement a Matching Grant Facility to assist exporters with product and market
diversification. "
(2) Second, the Project reflects the emphasis which the assistance strategy places on the need to focus IDA's support
more sharply on appropriate process:
*  capacity building to create a stronger institutional basis for the adoption and sustained implementation of
necessary reforms;
*  small, relatively simple operations, enabling successive IDA support operations to be related more closely to
reform commitment and performance;
*  the use of more direct means than in the past to strengthen private sector institutions and promote innovative
behavior by enterprises; and
*  inter-agency partnerships to ensure vital donor coordination.
With regard to the critical goal of capacity building, the Project includes initiation of a process of tax administration



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 ' Page 10
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
reform which may take about a decade to implement fully, so will require sustained support through future IDA
operations. The need for such long-term commitment to capacity building is a key theme of the CAS.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy
(a) The trade and tax regime
Although increasing or even maintaining the rate of growth of the Bangladesh economy has to depend on export
production (and efficient import substitution), the trade regime retains a significant anti-export bias that has
limited export growth and, more important, limited diversification Trade policy has three key operational
dimensions in this export-oriented but still rather highly protected economy:
(1) The general import regime itself: Following reasonable progress on trade policy reform, especially during
1993-95, the process has stalled with the average tariff rate remaining around 20% and dispersion that continues
to give high effective protection to some domestic market production. The strong anti-export bias in the regime
arises from both directly through the taxation of imports and indirectly through its effect on the relative
profitability of domestic market production and through its exchange rate effect of lowering the Taka value of
export proceeds. This is exacerbated for some industries, especially textiles, by a few remaining quantitative
restrictions. GOB has been expected to resume progress on lowering and compressing tariffs and removing QRs,
and to announce this in the context of the PFP/ESAF process. That process too has stalled in recent years,
however, in part because too few policy makers have been convinced of the advantages of an export-friendly
trade regime over one which supports the status quo.
(2) Schemes aimed at insulating exporters from part of the bias: Even if progress is resumed on tariff reform,
the need for mechanisms to remove duties and tax on imported inputs -- and their impact on prices of domestic
inputs -- will remain important through the medium term. The most popular of the present mechanisms, special
bonded warehousing (SBW) and duty drawback (DD), work quite well for dedicated, direct exporters, but they
have two unfortunate biases against firms producing for bothl export and domestic markets (partial export), and
against domestic sourcing of materials and intermediates (indirect export). GOB has understood for some time
the need to remove these biases and make the mechanisms available to a wide range of partial and indirect
exporters, but has feared the possible expansion of cheating under such a liberal policy so has been unable to
implement in the absence of more sophisticated monitoring and rate computation capabilities.
(3) Official trade cooperation. Bangladesh has always been a member of General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, but like other former colonies it avoided the informational and tariff binding rigors of accession now being
faced by, for example, the Eastern European and Central Asian economies in transition. Instead of trading
concessions within the GATT framework -- now the World Trade Organization -- it has liberalized its trade
regime unilaterally and participated in a few modest regional arrangements, notably the Bangkok Agreement.
Over the past few years it has been a leading proponent of the emerging South Asian Preferential Trade
Arrangement (SAPTA), but this has yet to result in significant changes in the trade regime. The Uruguay Round
has introduced the revised GATT, enhanced focus on customs valuation and product standards, accorded
automatic applicability to parallel agreements on agriculture, services (GATS), intellectual property (TRIPs),
government procurement (GPA) and trade-related investment measures (TRIMs), and -- perhaps most
significantly for Bangladesh - begun the phase-out of the Multi-fiber Agreement (MFA) Thus the need for
Bangladesh to play a more active role in the WTO has become more evident. At the same time, the economy may
benefit from rapid progress on regional and subregional trade cooperation. If full advantage is to be taken of its
membership of WTO, SAPTA, etc. to facilitate the growth and diversification of exports, an important
institutional issue to be addressed is the need to strengthen official capability in technical aspects of the
negotiation, compliance with, and enforcement of cooperation arrangements. Another key aspect is the need to
develop a balanced national approach to the rights of WTO members with respect to safeguards against
"troublesome imports" - to avoid a situation in which protection seeking vested interests may be encouraged to
find new legal ways of undoing the progress that has been (and hopefully will be) made on trade liberalization



Project Appralsal Document                                                                       Page 11
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(h) Tax and Customs administration
An issue closely related to trade policy, which has been receiving increasing recognition as a major drag on
efficient business growth is the endemic inefficiency of revenue administration, especially Customs which
administers the trade instruments Correct trade and tax policies are necessary but not sufficient to provide an
appropriate business environment; equally if not more essential is their effective implementation. This is
especially true for export business, where the costs of inefficiency and corruption cannot be passed on to
consumers. Past efforts to improve revenue administration in Bangladesh have been limited largely to the partial
computerization of collections data, the issue of more transparent rate schedules, and an unsuccessful experiment
with a "voluntary" pre-sbipment inspection, green channel scheme for importers. Until recently, GOB has not
addressed the need for more thorough changes in the revenue services, notably the pervasive dysfunctionality of a
bureaucratic institution with archaic structure, legislation and procedures, perverse incentives, and poor or
inappropriate relationships with "clients"- revealed by all institutional analyses of NBR.' Now, however, faced
with the combination of private business's frustration with inefficient processes which yield slow clearance and
disputed assessments even when bribes are paid, and tax receipts well below the level which high rates should
yield, the Government has decided to embark on a far-reaching administrative reforn In a recent statement it.
"...affrms the...need to improve efficiency and reduce inequity and rent-seeking in the entire
taxation system for economic growth and poverty reduction; and.. .recognizes that to meet these
needs a comprehensive Revenue Administration Modernization Program (RAMP) must be
mounted quickly to bring about appropriate changes in the organization, procedures, institutional
culture and afl other relevant areas in the national tax administration."2
(c) Product and market dlevelopment
(1) Bangladesh has movedfrom one narrow export base to another. It was rescued from its former dependence
on jute exports mainly by the very rapid growth of ready-made garment and knitwear export production.
However, this again involves a narrow product range, mainly at the low end of the quality spectrum this time. It
is also dependent on imported materials and on access advantages under the MFA quota and GSP systems.
After garnents/knitwear/specialized textiles (64%), the main exports are jute goods, frozen shrimp, leather, gas-
based fertilizer, some other chemical products, raw jute, frozen fish, tea, leather goods, and toys (no other
product-group yielded above 0.5% of gross export sales in 1995/96). Although some of these are based on
domestic raw materials, exports of horticultural and other such primary products are in infancy. This applies
also to most non-textile manufactures and to services other than sending workers abroad. Significant, swift
diversification is essential to reduce the risks of the ncw dependence on garments, heightened by the phasing out
of the MFA quotas which now advantage Bangladesh
(2) Such diversification is proving difficult to achieve Major issues affecting all potential export activities,
whether manufacturing, primary products or services, include (i) Bangladeshi entrepreneurs' lack of experience in
operating in competitive export markets, (ii) few foreign investments which could teach such experience to local
firms, and (iii) inadequate shipping and handling arrangements, including Customs clearance procedures. Other
issues thwart particular industries, such as lack of HACCP to avoid poor sanitary conditions for food products
and lack of ISO-9000 to facilitate those and many other products' access to some markets.
(3) Official exportpromotion efforts and technical supportfacilities, needed to overcome such difficulties,
have been modest in their impact. Little progress has been made on product and market diversification,
backward linkages, or product quality enhancement. This is not surprising, since it is the common experience for
l Institutional analysis explaining the need for extensive organizational reform as well as substantial changes in process and
bureaucratic culture of NBR has been provided in: a November 1997 paper by an internationally respected Customs expert
on SBWs and Customs Process Reform (see section 2 of Annex 2D), two 1998 reports - by IMF Fiscal Affairs staff and by
an HIID consulting team organized for NBR by IDA; the comprehensive 1997 IDA publication Governmnent That Works,
and a recent paper by the former Country Director on the Bangladesh bureaucracy (see Annex 8 for references).
2 January 12, 1999 letter to IDA on behalf of the Minister of Finance (see Annex 8) A draft of the program concept paper
outlining the various types of change has been discussed with and peer-reviewed by IDA staff and external experts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 12
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
countries with immature private sectors and thus reliant on public sector agencies which have a bureaucratic
rather than commercial approach to those functions. Most notable in this regard is the Export Promotion Bureau
(a part of the civil service with rather nominal private representation in its governance), but it applies also to the
official scientific establishment which should be backstopping product '-sting and certification, and to the public
facilities for vocational training. As well as desiring to strengthen some of these institutions, GOB is now
prepared to support innovative approaches involving more private participation and responsibility. These could
include public co-financing for individual firms and associations' developmental activities which otherwise may
not occur due to the externalities involved in pioneerinlg new products and markets.
(d) Other procedural and infrastructural constraints
It is often -- correctly -- argued by opponents of rapid trade reform that its short-term costs are raised when other,
systemic constraints prevent new, more efficient activities developing to reap the expected benefits of reform:
expanded employment, profitability, foreign exchange and other sources of more rapid growth. Existing
procedural and some infrastructural obstacles would undermine export initiatives even if the above-mentioned
support services were adequate. Although many of these obstacles have been reduced in recent years, costs in
time and money remain far above international norms for many physical and financial aspects of the movement of
goods through, from, and to ports and markets. Basic causes include outdated, inefficient and often corrupt
bureaucratic practices, weak information systems that fail to anticipate effective demand for supporting
infrastructure, and limited funds for public investment GOB has created some mechanisms for hearing and
reacting to exporters' concerns, but both Goverunent and the private sector still lack comprehensive, analytical
capacity to prioritize problems, quantify costs of inaction, propose feasible solutions, and implement them.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices
To promote export development and especially diversification, the Project will address key aspects of each of the
export and other trade sector issues noted above. Perhaps most important, it will advance largely private initiatives
to serve potential exporters' immediate needs for support in developing a competitive export culture and specific
skills and experience in tackling new markets with acceptable products. Such needs include firm-, group- and sector-
level activities to improve product quality and quality control, adapt products to market needs, identify markets, and
upgrade technologies and skills for these purposes. With respect to public capacity building, the Project will focus
on technical and consultative aspects of: (i) needed improvements to expand coverage of the SBW and DD schemes
and to speed clearance, and the initiation of more general Customs and other tax modernization to tackle corruption
and inefficiency; (ii) the stalled process of unilateral liberalization, to make the case and build internal commitment
for further reform, combined with multilateral arrangements to expand trade opportunities, and (iii) identifying,
analyzing and overcoming other procedural and infrastructural constraints on new exporters More specifically.
(a) Private product and market development initiatives
(I) A strategic choice has been made to focus most of the Project's financial support for PMD on private
initiatives to develop and utilize support services and to "learn to export". The need for greater private
involvement in export promotion and technical support services would be addressed most strongly through a
Matching Grant Facility (MGF), an instrument which many developed countries and several Bank clients facing
problems similar to Bangladesh have found very cost-effective (see Annex 2C). Most of the grants are expected
to match expenditures by individual firms, both export producers and export service providers, while others may
be arranged to cofinance association-sponsored or other group activities which firmns may elect to execute
collectively in their subsectors. The key aim is to create markets in the supply and use of export support services.
(2) A second strategic choice has been made that the criteria for both types of grant would sharply reflect the
goal of new export product and market development (rather than the broad enterprise development approach used
in some other countries' MGF schemes). Uses of the grant funds are expected to include (but not be limited to)
innovative approaches to certification, standards and testing services, and enterprise training focussed on export
needs, as well as more direct teclnical assistance to help firms with product adaptation and market identification.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 13
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(3) A third pair of choices - aimed at minimizing the risk of politicization and abuse -- is for the MGF to be operated
by a Board on which private industry associations will have majority representation (rather than by a public agency),
and for that board to be enabled and encouraged to delegate most grant approval authority to the professional team
that has been contracted to provide advisory services to applicants and monitor results. Risk will be further reduced
by strict monitoring and impact criteria in evaluation of the Board and the managers' performance.
(b) Public backstopping for product and market development
In line with the above private sector focus, IDA and (only somewhat reluctantly) GOB have avoided insisting on
significant investment in strengthening public institutions for export promotion and support at this time. To
complement the private initiatives, however, it may be necessary for some public activities to be strengthened,
perhaps in areas such as quota management, trade intelligence, accreditation of private testers, and identifying
necessary policy changes or investments The Project may appropriately channel selective assistance in such
areas, preferably with private participation. First, however, it is essential to determine that the public institutions
concerned are really needed, prepared to function efficiently, and client-oriented. This may require reorganization
in some cases, so the Project Coordination and Development Unit is charged with institutional analysis to support
reform where necessary prior to further subproject development. The private activities noted above will be
coordinated appropriately with such subprojects and with assistance which other agencies may be rendering to
public entities (e.g. the International Trade Centre's traditional help to EPB).
(c) Duty and tax reliefprocedures
The Project would improve monitoring to make the SBW and Drawback schemes for relieving duty on imported
inputs less open to abuse -- essential for giving effect to GOB's willingness to remove their present biases
against domestic sourcing and partial export and for abandoning the present "cash compensation" scheme A
major issue addressed during preparation is whether investment in better relief schlemes can yield its expected
benefit without more fundamental changes in Customs administration culture. A strong consensus emerged that
real improvement in subsidiary schemes can be achieved best in the context of overall Customs reform (below).
(d) More comprelhensive revenue administration
(1) Meanwhile, as noted, concerns with the drag of inefficiency and corruption throughout the tax system -
impeding efficient business and limiting revenue receipts -- have increasingly been leading the authorities towards
acceptance of the need for a comprehensive revenue administrative modernization program (RAMP) that will
address these concerns by removing the drag inherent in transaction-based supervision. The Government is
continuing to refine and operationalize the RAMP concept, which it intends to begin implementing through the
Customs reform to be supported by the Project. It has decided that the first phase of this reform (as well as
addressing the above SBW/DD improvements and short-term actions to accelerate clearance of exports and
export-related imports) will pilot modern approaches to tax administration including self-assessment, post-event
audit, truly random inspection, and risk management A key objective of these techniques is to reduce the
opportunity for rent-seeking behavior by importers and officials. They will be complemented by strengthening of
other anti-corruption methods such as improved internal and external audit, enhanced vigilance and penalties,
performance-based bonuses, and taxpayer education and information saervices Some of the changes will require
new legislation, which the Government plans to introduce by end FY2000/0 1. Consideration will be given also to
more basic organizational change to enable better incentives for honest, professional conduct by Customs and
other tax staff. No decision has been made on how to deal with the incentives issue, although converting NBR
into a semi-autonomous Authority has been discussed tentatively in this regard. Lessons learned in the pilot
activities will be extended not only throughout Customs but to other tax branches as appropriate, either during or
following the project period as appropriate.
(2) The above approaches will be underpinned with a more advanced system of Customs data management
(such as ASYCUDA++ or TIMS) and other information technology to help improve conmmunication and
reporting in NBR, as well as with electronic detection equipment Although NBR's desire for IDA assistance
initially was focussed on these technology aspects, the present management fully comprehends that process and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 14
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
structural changes are necessary to derive the benefits of automation. It recognizes that in "soft states" like
Bangladesh automation must be properly harnessed to yield its potential in (i) reducing contact between taxpayers
and officials, the latters' discretion, and hence opportunities for rent-seeking, and (ii) facilitating truly random
checks and proper audit and monitoring to deter and detect such behavior. Thus automation will be fully
integrated with process and cultural changes to be initiated through the subproject. The integration will be helped
by having a single consulting team to provide technical assistance in all the reforms and automation activities.
And it will be encouraged further by IDA authorizing some of the procurement only after a first batch of process
changes have been implemented in 1999
(3) In addition to IDA financing of the expert team and equipment, the World Customs Organization (WCO) has
agreed to participate in the subproject to facilitate human resource development and culture change, and
UNCTAD would be associated with the ASYCUDA installation if that system were to be selected.
(4) Parallel technical assistance from the UK, IMF and IDA is helping the NBR to launch complementary reforms in
the VAT and income tax administration. Later phases of all processes would be assisted by further IDA operations
to support more fundamental aspects of the RAMP if GOB remains committed to its full execution.
(e) The trade policy regime
If the currently delayed PFP/ESAF process is resumed to the point of securing GOB commitment to further trade
policy reform, the Project would complement that process by strengthening the Tariff Commission staff's analytical
capability and hearings process through advice and training. On the other hand, if GOB is reluctant to make an
immediate commitment to accelerate liberalization, the strengthening of trade policy analytical capability is designed
to yield opportunities for that commitment to be made and for implementation to begin during the Project, i.e. in the
FY200 1 and FY2002 Budgets Such opportunities will include formal joint GOB/IDA/IMF annual reviews of BTC
findings on the degree and effects of anti-export bias in the tariff and QR structure In addition, the status and
organization of BTC will be examined as a priority PCU institutional review, with a view to making the organization
a more effective advocate for balance among the interests of exporters, consumers, and domestic market producers.
(/ Official trade cooperation
(1) The Government sees an urgent need for the Project to help build up official capacity for negotiating formal
cooperation arrangements (both global and regional), for monitoring and ensuring compliance with their obligations,
and for facilitating the private sector's exploitation of opportunities they provide for trade expansion. This capability
needs to be built within the public sector, and MOC has determined that the consequent problems of staff turnover
could be mitigated by giving the Tariff Commission an important role in backstopping negotiations and compliance
activities. Accordingly, it has prepared a subproject which combines this activity with the above-mentioned
strengthening of trade policy analysis Although housed in BTC, the subproject will also train Ministry staff who are
formally charged with servicing the Government's participation in trade treaty negotiation, interpretation and
enforcement. The issue of turnover that makes it difficult even for semi-autonomous BTC to retain trained staff will
be addressed in another of the PCU's key institutional review tasks.
(2) In addition to IDA, the World Trade Organization (WTO) will be associated with the subproject through parallel
financing from the United Kingdom DFID's closely associated Trade Policy Capacity Building Project.
(g) Procedural and infrastructural constraints
As an adjunct to the PMD support, the Project will contain an "export constraints identification and analysis"
capability to deal with procedural and infrastructural issues not covered by the MGF because they may affect
numerous export industries. A few identified solutions may then be addressed by new activities that would be
developed within the Project, while implementation on others would require separate operations by IDA or other
lenders/donors. It is expected that several current needs would be either dealt with -- or at least identified for action
by others -- during the Project Equally important for the longer term, the capability to identify and analyze export
constraints and find sound, practical solutions on a continuing basis would be institutionalized in a public/private
entity (perhaps a reinvented EPB with much greater private participation and service orientation) to address issues as
they emerge in a dynamic export environment. The PCU's work would form a partial model for such an entity.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 15
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
(1) An adjustment credit (ISAC-3) was considered but could not be justified by presumed foreign exchange costs
of continuing tariff reform nor by fiscal needs related to export promotion Current BOP difficulties are being
handled by emergency IMF/IDA operations related to floods which sharply interrupted export growth in 1998.
(2) Inclusion of the export-related activities in a more general technical assistance credit (TA-7, which is at an
earlier stage of preparation than this Project) was considered, but that would lack the cohesion of a focussed
export operation and would have delayed processing and approval while other subprojects were being developed.
(3) Comprehensive strengthening of the official Export Promotion Bureau early in the Project was considered,
but the Borrower has agreed that this should be deferred to a later stage if/when GOB is able to reorganize EPB
into a compact, responsive, commercially oriented unit and after trying the more private approach reflected in the
MGF. Modest assistance, some in collaboration with the WTO/UNCTAD International Trade Centre, can be
given in the meantime however, and an early candidate may be support for strengthening the EPB's capability in
the RMG quota management and monitoring system -- in appropriate cooperation with the private sector
(4) A direct follow-on to the Export Development Project which provided rediscount funds for trade finance was
considered earlier and rejected because export credit problems, though serious, are due to the weak condition of
banking rather than funds shortage; moreover the US$30 million ED Fund is still available to rediscount working
capital on a rolling basis, while IDA's term finance Private Sector Investment Credit closed recently and a new
non-bank credit operation may be approved shortly.
(5) It was intended early in appraisal of the Project that the Customs subproject would be jointly funded with the
Asian Development Bank's proposed Port Efficiency and Access Improvement Project, which would have included
the installation of ASYCUDA++ in major Customs houses. Delays in the ADB project, unrelated to its Customs
component, have led to the integration of that component into the IDA Project, which has the added advantages of
simplifying financial design and control, and ensuring that automation will serve, not replace, basic process reform.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
Sector issue                          Project                Latest SPN (Form 590) Rating
Implementation T  Development
Bank-financed                          i                                   Progress (UP)  | Objective (DO)
Availability of export credit          I Export Development Project 1988        S        i      S
(w/ USAID for institutional TA)
Trade reforms; export strategy; capacity of   ! Second Industrial Sector Adjustment |            S
duty relief and promotion institutions  Credit 1992                         (Uin 590 bt traised to S in ICR)
Introduction of VAT                    I Public Resource Management             5                S
Adjustment Credit 1992
Computerization of Customs and other tax  Sixth Technical Assistance Credit     S                S
systems                                 1992, Subprojcct #101, ETAC
Modernization of revenue administration  Tentatively planned with PHRD-funded TA 1998/99. new project(s)
other than first phase of Customs       supporting other RAMP elements
Other development agencies
USAID: Capacity of duty relief and credit   j Export Development Project 1988 (w/ IDA for export credit)
guarantee institutions                  E
UKDFID: VAT administration              Technical assistance to VAT 1999 (parallel w/ BDXDP)
UKDFID: protection analysis/trade coopn  Trade Policy Capacity Building Project 1999 (parallel w/ BDXDP)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 16
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design
(1) Avoid attaching too much institutional reform to adjustment lending, but rather support it through TA
instruments like this Project.
(2) Ensure continuity/sustainability by complementing short-term advisory/training activities with political efforts to
bring about institutional/cultural change in public agencies, notably through strong ownership by stakeholders (in this
case export producers).
(3) Build firm arrangements for coordinating implementation into the project design (rather than relying largely on
IDA supervision to maintain momentum).
(4) Restrict project activities to those which have a constituency that would ensure implementation.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
(1) GOB has already put the personnel to implement the Project in place by: establishing the Matching Grant Facility
and identifying the eminent person to serve as its Chairman (to be announced shortly upon Credit approval);
appointing Government members and welcoming the private members of the Steering Committee, the Coordination
Unit, and the MGF Board; and naming the Project Directors
(2) In advance of IDA Credit approval, GOB has expeditiously. approved Technical Assistance Project Proformas
for each of the four subprojects; prepared temis of reference for three years of external technical support; identified
and short-listed qualified consulting firms through international advertising; invited, received, and evaluated
proposals; and selected four experienced international firms: International Business and Technology Consultants Inc.
of the US for the coordination function, the ISO-9000-certified Trade Development Institute of Ireland for the MGF
management, Maxwell Stamp plc of the UK for the trade policy subproject, and Clapp & Mayne Inc of the US for
NBR/Customs support.
(3) In the Customs area GOB has taken or promised key prior steps (see Annex 2D, section 1). In particular it has:
(a) adopted, on the basis of a concept paper prepared by NBR staff and management and endorsed in principle by
IDA and other donors, a Revenue Administration Modernization Program which includes this Project's CM-1
subproject as the first phase of reform in the Customs; (b) convinced the World Customs Organization that there is
the critical mass of reform-readiness necessary to mount a WCO Customs Reform and Modernization Programme
for Bangladesh as part of the Project; (c) arranged external support in several complementary areas: (i) from IDA in
operationalizing other aspects of the RAMP, including the early implementation of a unique taxpayer identification
number scheme, groundwork for which was already laid in 1997/98, (ii) from UK DFID in strengthening and
modernizing VAT administration during 1999-2002, and (iii) from the IMF in implementing a large taxpayer unit
within the next few months; (d) facilitated implementation of the envisioned reforms by appointing/identifying: (i) an
outstanding administrator from outside the revenue services as NBR Chairman, (ii) a senior change manager from
within the services as Member for Administration & Reform, and (iii) several pro-reform middle-management staff as
change agents; (e) undertaken serious consideration with a view to introducing in FY1999/00: (i) pre-shipment
inspection under proper contractual arrangements, (ii) simplification of the Customs Tariff structure to reduce the
scope for discretionary assessments, and (iii) several process reforms which do not depend on extensive Project TA;
and (f) announced its intention to introduce legislation by FY2000/01 to provide the framework for modern, efficient
taxation and Customs services Fortuitously, the availability of an interim technical solution to the Y2k problem will
enable IDA approval for some of the equipment to occur only after an initial period of process reform that will
further demonstrate GOB/NBR commitment to the program
(4) GOB has directed and enabled the Tariff Commission to prepare for a high-level review of relative protection
among all sectors of the economy - to be held in consultation with IDA (and the IMF) within FYl999/2000 and in
subsequent years, as the basis for accelerating progress towards a trade-neutral regime.
(5) To deal with the perennial problem of training TA being wasted when officials move agencies before the benefits
of training them can be fully realized, GOB will take strenuous measures to keep trainees appropriately assigned.
This involves difficult changes in civil service rules and practice As a token of its commitment, GOB has agreed to
fund replacement training quickly if lost trainees eviscerate capacity building, and plans to use five other practical



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 17
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
means to help avoid such waste, namely: (i) selection of candidates likely to remain in post or skill area, (ii) advance
notification of training plans to the Ministry of Establishment for insertion in individuals' files, (iii) making
individuals' bonds against post-training departure skill area-specific rather than service-wide, (iv) providing for
promotion within agency or at least skill area wherever possible, and (v) requiring advice on training plans from the
project advisory teams.
12. Value added of Bank support
IDA's involvement in the Government's implementation of the matching grant facility, Customs reform agenda, and
other promotional and capacity building initiatives that require technical assistance should.
(1) facilitate inter-Ministry cooperation, and support "export culture" within/among GOB agencies;
(2) provide legitimacy for rationalized assistance to export production and marketing through clear specification of
objectives, criteria, and externalities,
(3) encourage private/public partnership and private association initiative in export promotion activities;
(4) by addressing supply-response issues, support the PFP/ESAF process in maintaining pressure for trade and
exchange policy reform to gradually reduce the need for the duty-relief and product-market development activities
supported by the Project, making them interim rather than permanent compensatory measures;
(5) provide ready access to international best practice in tax/Customs reform, export promotion, and technical
support activities; and
(6) coordinate interagency cooperation among the United Kingdom (DFID), WTO, WCO, UNCTAD, ITC and other
donors, including within the Integrated Framework-for Trade-Related Technical Assistance for Least Developed
Couintries.
Summary Project Assessments
13. Economic Assessment      [] Cost-Benefit Analysis     [] Cost Effectiveness  [x]  Other.
Analysis:               Qualitative
For a catalytic project to promote innovation and learning, to build supportive institutional arrangements, and to
reduce cost-raising constraints on export business, formal quantitative Cost-Benefit or Cost-Effectiveness Analyses
would be inappropriate. Three important qualitative assessments may be made, however:
(a) Investment in innovation and export growt7t
(I) The Matching Grant Facility represents a very small investment in the export sector It will iniect about $15
million of public funds into the private commercial market for export services over three years -- $12 million in
cash and about $3 million worth of direct technical advice. Through the prescribed criteria and appropriate
management, much of the injection should be placed at the margin where it induces private investments in
innovation that would not otherwise occur. But even if only two-thirds of the investments met that criterion, the net
addition (by facility plus firm) to investment in new product or market development would be $19 million (= 15 +12
x 2/3). This is less than 0.5% of current annual export revenue, although it is 2% of revenue excluding the
dominant garments and knitwear and the traditional jute.
(2) On the basis of experience elsewhere (see Annex 2C), such modest national investments appear to yield
extremely high returns, generating annual net export income of many times their initial value. Such growth occurs
both through utilizing unemployed resources and by shifting resources from less efficient import-substitution and
non-tradable activities. These effects are not easy to measure, since the estimate of attributable export growth itself
depends on strong assumptions about the roles of product and market developmental activities compared with the
other necessary conditions and contributing factors to export growth. Nevertheless, it is expected that the average
annual export increase would be no less than 6 times the amount of the grant (Argentina expects 7 times and the
Annex cites much higher ratios for Indonesia and Kenya),
(3) Other indicators, depending on the objective of each specific matching grant, will include. (i) competitiveness



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 18
Country: Bangladesh                                                         Project Title: Export Diversification Project
improvements, both quantitative such as production costs, output per unit labor, and market share and production
costs, and qualitative, such as adoption of new management process, launch of new products, new distribution
channels, and use of consultants for problem solving, and (ii) product quality improvements, such as quality
certifications or increased price/reduced penalties on a product.
(4) Even if the direct return through the beneficiary firms' export performance were measurable, it would greatly
understate the full return to the economy by ignoring important externalities in the form of demonstration effects of
the pioneer beneficiaries' success in exploring new approaches. It would also fail to capture the critical reduction in
the economy's vulnerability over the longer term which may be due in large part to any significant diversification
that the Project will assist.
(b) Improved business environment
An important proposition of the Project's rationale is that the sort of entrepreneurial zeal which the MGF is
intended to operationalise can be easily thwarted - and thus the extra export growth limited -- by impediments in the
business environment of the sort which other Project components will be addressing If the expected impact of the
MGF on export growth is significant but hard to quantify, however, the impacts of the project components to build
trade management capacity in the public sector are even more so. It must suffice to note the reasons for expecting
high returns from these activities, rather than attempting to measure them.
(1) Existing exporters, when asked to rank obstacles to their activities, generally cite Customs procedures as a
major cost-raising and/or time-consuming constraint. It follows from this observation - and the facts that margins
are often slim and required response times short in competitive global markets -- that lower-cost and speedier import
and export procedures would enable a significant volume of additional exports which are now deterred altogether by
the present penalty. This effect may occur quite quickly as procedures are streamlined. Perhaps more significant,
however, will be its longer term impact if, as intended, the Customs Phase 1 subproject successfully pilots and
facilitates: (a) further phases of Customs reform, generalizilg the new procedures and attitudes to all importers, and
(b) equally far-reaching parallel reforms in the other revenue administrations. Each of these developments should
further lower the cost of doing business and make the tax system more equitable for the economy as a whole.
(2) The strengthening of national capacity in protection analysis is expected to facilitate (though not guarantee) the
resumption of trade liberalization and hence a significant shift in relative incentives to reduce the present bias
against export production at world prices within a protected economy. Tariff reduction should even yield benefits
for producers who are already able to enjoy world-priced imported inputs through EPZ, SBW or DDB facilities,
through the exchange rate effect of liberalization on the relative values of export proceeds and domestic inputs.
(3) Improving the national use of regional and global trade cooperation arrangements should facilitate further
expansion of trade, both through better global market access and through encouraging regional specialization which
guides domestic resources towards activities in which Bangladesh enjoys comparative advantage among its
neighbors. It should also, like the general trade liberalization, lower the cost of imported inputs to benefit exporters
and import competing producers alike. Subject in degree to other policy and market conditions, these producer
benefits from trade will in turn yield higher investment, wages, and tax revenue.
(c) Public/private partnership
Apart from the issue of the expected economic return from the actual investments made or induced by the Project in
the complementary categories of product or market development and supportive institution building, there is an
important economic consideration in the approach which it takes to the first category, PMD. The private/public
partnership instrument to encourage innovation is found in most developed and now many developing countries.
But it has seen little use so far in Bangladesh where centralized public promotion mechanisms and financial or
credit subsidies have been more common industry policy tools. Unlike the latter, the MGF approach allocates
resources and induces supply at the market level, replaces targeting by self-selection, encourages beneficiary
investment in learning and commitment to implementation, avoids distorting financial markets, has wvell-defined exit
rules and, perhaps most important, gets Government into the role of helping develop the market for business
services rather than trying to provide them itself



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 19
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
14. Fiscal and Financial Assessment
(a) Fiscal impact
The Facility should involve no public expenditures outside the Credit proceeds, and relatively minor GOB inputs
are programmed for the public capacity building components. On the other hand, the Project should yield
substantial revenues in the medium to long term in the fonns of: profit and wage taxation from the additional export
business it will enable, customs duty and VAT on the extra imports which the exports can finance; and customs
duty and VAT on imports generally, which the Customs administration reform should direct to the Treasury instead
of being diverted to unofficial recipients or otherwise lost through under-valuation and leakage. The profit tax
effect will be muted by the present generous tax holiday policy (zero for some and half-rate for other exporters), but
the phasing out of that policy may be facilitated politically by the increased profitability that should come from the
reduced anti-export bias which the Project may facilitate.
(b) Financial
For the reasons discussed in the above economic assessment, the financial returns from the investment of US$48
million cannot be quantified but are expected to be considerable. The magnitudes of IDA and other financial
support for the various subprojects have been derived from estimates of the amount and types of advisory services,
training activities and associated cost items needed to achieve the intended amount of capacity building in the
agencies concerned (in the cases of Customs and BTC/MOC for PATC) or to responsibly execute project activities
(in the cases ofthe MGF and PCU) The expencliture plan over the threeyears is given i4niAnex 4.
15. Technical Assessment
(l) The Project design places considerable responsibility for the technical quality of the advisory, training, capacity
building, grant appraisal and other services to be delivered on the four consultancy groups which GOB is
contracting for the purpose Both MOC (for PCU, PATC and MGF subprojects) and NBR (for Customs) have
made vigorous and careful efforts to invite qualified international firms to bid for the contracts under IDA
guidelines for international competitive bidding. The evaluation of the bids has been conducted responsibly, and
contracts signed with their effectiveness coinciding with that of the IDA Credit. This does not preclude the terms of
reference being amended as necessary to reflect any GOB/IDA agreements on the scope of the teams' work.
(2) Information technology systems and equipment are significant only in the Customs subproject, and to a much
lesser extent in PATC. Although procurement of the new information technology equipment for Customs needs to
be expedited, it is intended that the Consultants will, upon mobilization, review the specifications that were
appraised by the ADB when it was thought the latter's Port Project would be the main source of funding. In
addition, appropriate agreements on the plan for ASYCUDA++ or an alternative system installation have to be
reached among IDA, NBR, the Consultants when mobilized, and the system supplier.
16. Institutional Assessment
(a) Executing agencies
(1) Formally, the executing agencies are the NBR for the subproject to begin modernizing Customs and the
Ministry of Commerce for all other aspects including overall coordination, the PATC, and the MGF subproject. In
practice, the NBR is expected to exercise close supervision of its subproject, which affects all areas of Customs
operations and potentially the other tax wings too. The MOC's executive responsibilities, on the other hand, will be
largely delegated to Project entities or other agencies: the PCU will be responsible for ensuring appropriate
interaction among the agencies and subproject consultancy and implementation teams, and between them and IDA,
servicing the Technical Committee and reporting through it to the Steering Committee;
the PATC will be located in the Tariff Commission which will assume day-to-day responsibility for it, including
services to MOC and coordination of the IDA and parallel UK-DFID Projects, the MGF will be supervised by its
own Board, which has been established with five private and two official voting members; and, once they are
developed and under implementation, other PMD subprojects will be executed by the agency concerned (e.g. the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 20
Country: Bangladesh                                                      Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Department of Fisheries, an industry association, etc.) Such delegation is desirable to protect the Project activities
from excessive bureaucratic procedures and the risk of frequent changes in management personnel, while not
reducing either their ability to strengthen MOC and BTC technical capacity or the effective execution of the MGF
and the substantive PCU functions.
(2) The Government has taken a responsible decision to avoid insisting on IDA commitment to Project support for
official agencies which have nominal mandates to provide services to promote export, and to request instead the
reservation of funds to be utilized only when appropriate subprojects are identified with help from the PCU to
ensure prior or parallel institutional reform where necessary. Initially US$1 million is reserved for this purpose, but
this may be increased from "unallocated" Credit proceeds if justified by good proposals
(b) Project management
(1) Management arrangements will reflect the above executing responsibilities. While overall coordination
including accounting and reporting functions lie with the PCU, most project management will occur at the
subproject level -- i.e. Customs, PATC, the MGF, other subprojects when they are developed, and the PCU with
respect to its own substantive and housekeeping activities. Agreements of the clear division of specific management
functions between the PD for the subproject and the consulting team leader (i.e. Chief or Senior Technical Advisor
or MGF Manager) should be reached soon after the latters' mobilization.
(2) In the case of the MGF, it is expected that the Board will delegate appraisal and approval responsibility as far
as possible to the management team, confining itself to providing transparent policy guidance and protecting the
team's technical judgements from political or other influence. Since the team will not include any GOB official as
subproject director, the PD for Coordination (who is also a member of the MGF Board) will serve in that capacity
where needed, notably in the signing of grant checks on the authority of the Board or Manager.
(3) For Customs, an innovative functional arrangement for sharing responsibilities and ensuring internal ownership
and sustainability has been devised by NBR- the PD will be the NBR's "change manager" as Member for
Administration and Reform, able to keep the Chairman, fellow Members and senior Customs officials informed and
closely involved in the reform process; the team leader (international consultant on Customs modernization) will
represent the contracted firm in ensuring quality of all international and local consulting inputs and of their own
advisory, training and other outputs, as well as in coordinating the team members' and the WCO experts' activities;
and a group of Customs officials under an Implementation Manager will be seconded to the consulting team and
charged with facilitating active involvement of Commissioners and staff of Customs houses. The officials are
expected to return to NBR service at the end of the Project to help the Board ensure the sustainability and
continuation of the reform process.
(4) The BTC official designated as PD for the PATC subproject will probably serve in the same capacity for the
DFID's parallel TPCB project, and the PATC team leader (senior technical advisor) will play the key role in
coordinating the short-term TPCB inputs with those of the PATC.
(5) Although no prior arrangement has been made formally for the continuation of the PCU's analytical functions
after the Project, this should emerge in the course of its own work to help GOB develop improved official capacity
for export promotion and development. Possibilities include a public/private managed entity to assume the
promotion role of the EPB but focussed on policy and regulatory analysis, facilitation, and market information.
(c) Traininig
A major reason for TA projects failing to fully achieve their common objective of sustainably enhancing public
agencies' technical capability is the propensity of officials to move to other agencies (or leave the Civil Service)
after TA funds have been spent on training them in skills which the Government needs to retain. In the present case
this risk is not great in the large Customs subproject, since most of the audit and other skills to be learned have
value in all areas of the revenue services to which NBR officials may transfer. It is substantial, however, in the
efforts to develop public sector expertise in the complex areas of trade negotiations and protection analysis,
affecting BTC and MOC staff. This Project introduces in Bangladesh an major incentive for necessary changes to
be made in Civil Service rules, or at least practice, to reduce this risk - i e the provision for GOB to fund
replacement training when subsequent transfers of Project-trained officials significantly reduce the sustainability of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 21
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
the TA. Short of formal changes in the rules, inappropriate transfers may be discouraged also by the provision of all
training plans to the Establishment Ministry, making it aware of individuals being trained under the Project.
17. Social Assessment
The Project's social impact will be confined to the implications of the growth in producers' business that may be
caused by those matching grants which achieve their objectives. Employment should expand, particularly of women
and particularly in industries other than RMG which now accounts for most female employment growth. Since it is
tempting for Bangladesh firms to employ readily available child workers, care will need to be taken in administering
the MGF to ensure that this practice is not condoned. As in previous projects, such care will be exercised by
requiring in advance of grant approval, and checking by field survey, that beneficiary firms are in compliance with
Bangladesh labor laws. The MGF Statement of Policies and Operating Procedutres (SPOP) has been worded
accordingly (see Annex 2A). None of the public capacity building activities will have direct social effects.
18. Environmental Assessment              Category:       [I  A         [] B          [xI C
Environment-friendly production technologies may be encouraged as a side-effect of efforts under the MGF and
new subprojects to develop export markets wliich increasingly reject products made in "dirty" factories Where that
is not the case, specific activities to be assisted will need to be evaluated in regard to whether they could promote
water or air polluting production. In particular, MGF-supported pre-investment studies should incorporate a
section on environmental management, which would include reviews of national environmental requirements --
especially those established under the Environmental Conservation Act (ECA), 1995, and the Environmental
Conservation Rules (ECR), 1997 - applicable to the proposed investment and of the relevant guidelines from the
World Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook (PPAH), as well as a proposed plan of the steps
necessary to obtain the required Environmental Clearance Certificate from the Department of the Environment,
indicating information needs, responsibilities, resources and timing. The SPOP has been worded accordingly, and
copies of the ECA, ECR and PPAH will be made available to applicants by the MGF management Here too, none
of the capacity building activities will have direct effects.
19. Participatory Approach
Participant                          Identification/Preparation           Implementation
Firms.     Exporters                .           Consultation                    Collaboration
Service providers                   Consultation                    Collaboration
Industry associations and chambers              Consultation         .          Collaboration
Intermediary NGOs                               Consultation                Potential Collaboration
Donors      UK DFID,                           Collaboration         i          Collaboration
Agencies    WTO                                 Consultation                    Collaboration
WCO                                 Collaboration                   Collaboration
UNCTAD                              Consultation         I          Collaboration
ITC                                 Consultation                Potential Collaboration
20. Sustainability
The Project has been designed to facilitate changes in bureaucratic practices which should be sustainable due to
their popularity with the business community and the latter's increased participation in management of export-
related support services The incentive for minimizing transfers of trained officials should significantly enhance
sustainability. The MGF is expected to be a temporary learning instrument to initiate a process of diversification
which should soon develop its own momentum (see Section I on objectives and indicators)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 22
Country: Bangladesh                                                                   Project Title: Export Diversification Project
21. Critical Risks                                                                  (from fourth column ofAnnex 1)
Risk                        Rating                  Risk Minimization Measure
Prolect outputs to development objectives
* Trade barriers could be raised by destination          * Project TA implementation will raise Bangladesh's ability to meet
countries, or subsidies provided by competitors, to  L    phyto-saniitary and other standards requirements, to negotiate and
thwart Bangladeshi exporters' Project-assisted efforts   monitor implementation of international agreements, and to exercise
to enter or expand markets                              its rights under them.
* Even high quality protection analysis may not rout     * Project TA implementation to improve analysis and hearings for
resistance from vested protection and revenue      M     affected interests is intended to mutually reinforce parallel
interests to policy changes that would reduce anti-      GOBIIDAlMF policy framework discussions (which may yield an
export bias in incentives                               IMF ESAF program)
* Goveniment and private investors may be slow to        * (a) The PCU's analysis of infrastructural and procedural
respond positively to opportunities revealed by PCU  L    constraints will feature persuasive arguments for refonn and
constraints analysis for policy refonn, public/private  reorganization and high quality pre-feasibility work on investment
institutional reorganization, and investment in support  opportunities (b) Project supervision will complement other
infrastructure                                           elements of IDAIGOB dialogue on economic policy, administrative
refonr, and ADP issues
Prolect components to outputs
* Govermment and/or associations may not avoid           * Balanced interests in Board and between it and professional
exercising excessive control or political influence in  L    managers and PCU/Technical Committee/Steering Committee /IDA
MGF grant administration                                 monitoring should thwart manipulation attempts
* Associations may not be able to persuade               * (a) Advisory services can promote benefits of cooperation (b)
beneficiary members to contribute cash for collective  L    Funds eannarked for collective activities can be used instead for
activities                                              individual export enterprises or service providers
* GOB may not maintain neutrality between                * New subprojects under Component I (c) et seq. will require
public/private export promotion initiatives        M     separate IDA approvals.
* In Customs reform, present GOB commitmnent to          * (a) Integrated and sequenced piogramn combining training,
fundamental refonn may weaken in the face of staff  H    automation, process design, legislation, taxpayer involvement, and
resistance to hard decisions that must be taken on       consideration of incentives options. (b) GOB expects IDA support for
replacement and integrity issues (This could be          other RAMP components with another Credit that is contingent on
manifest, for example, in a failure to ensure continuity  real progress in the Customs refonn (c) Close IDA supervision (with
of the present committed and competent NBR               progressive perfonnance indicators), related closely to the general
leaderslhip)                                             policy dialogue on PSM etc
* NBR may not want to take advantage of more             * (a) Project will strengthen exporters' lobby for sensible policies
soplisticated monitoring to be liberal in issuing SBW  M  (b) Consultanits and NBR's internal RAMP refonn group will promote
licenses and/or duty drawbacks                           advantages/feasibility of such policies
* NBRIMOC/BTC may not overcome present                   * (a) Parallel civil service refoni efforts should promote - or at least
difficulties in mainitaining high quality staff in the  H    accomunodate by exception - necessary flexibility in applying
admninistrations for SBW, DEDO, general Customs,        traditional standards (b) GOB has agreed to fund replacement
trade cooperation, anld policy analysis, andlor in      training if transfers reduce sustainability, (c) Training plans to be
moving or replacing redundanit staff, replacing trained  provided to Establishmuent Ministry in advance (d) NBR- Project's.
and proficient staff who do move out, and clian.ginig    modest aim to explore scope for basic organization reform (i e
work ethics                                              conversion to an extra-civil service "Authority") may be accelerated
by the parallel PFPIESAF dialogue and/or by other RAMP-executing
projects (e) BTC The Project revisits the definition of autonomy.
* BTC policy advice may not well reflect the results of  * The Project will. (a) help raise BTC's responsibility and status as
good analysis of relative protection for export v  M     well as its staff's technical competence; (b) emphasize sophisticated
import substitution.                                     and well reported hearings, and (c) include GOB/IDA/IMF protection
reviews to test and utilize the TA.
* Other agencies may not cooperate wl PCU to ensure      * Comprehensive coordination arrangements PCU, Technical
quality of studies/recommendations.                L    Cotmnmittee, Steering Commnittee
lOverall Proect risk rating                         M                                (L = low, M  = moderate; H   high)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 23
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
22. Possible Controversial Aspects
(1) The Customs subproject, although limited to piloting rather than fully implementing far-reaching changes in
the organization and culture of the administration, may nonetheless attract opposition from staff and clients who
would stand to lose from the further steps that would effectively preclude corrupt behavior NBR may require
strong political support to initiate some aspects of the reform program As indicated above, the highest risks relate
to the present and future Governments' commitment to sustain the reform process during and well beyond the
Project period, so that the ground laid here will, with further assistance, bear the expected fruit of a modem,
corruption-free revenue administration. However, both the risks and the limitations on available mitigations are
lower now than in the past - or perhaps in future if the present window of opportunity is not seized.
(2) Objective control of Matching Grant schemes elsewhere has sometimes lapsed when political or industrial
interests have been able to influence the flow of funds. Although the Bangladesh facility has been designed
carefully to minimize this risk, vigilance will be required to ensure that the appropriate balance is maintained
between semi-automatic eligibility and careful monitoring to avoid abuse.
Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions.- Standard legal conditions only.
24. Other.- Important undertakings of the Government, which were agreed at Negotiations, include:
(1) MGF administration.- Throughout the Project, GOB and FBCCI will exercise due diligence to minimize the
risks of political or other interference in the objective administration of the Matching Grant Facility.
(2) Protection reviews.- GOB in consultation with IDA (and the IMF) will conduct high-level reviews of relative
protection among all sectors of the economy each year, as a basis for accelerating progress towards a neutral
regime to occur in the 2000/01 and subsequent Budgets.
(3) Customs reform.- (a) By June 2001, the Government will have introduced legislation to revise the Customs
Act and other laws that may need to be modernized to authorize the piloting or mainstreamning of new structural,
cultural and technical approaches to revenue administration. (b) Within FY2000/0 1 or earlier if process reforn
and monitoring quality permit, (i) SBW facilities will be available to most industries including partial exporters,
and (ii) the cash compensation scheme for indirect exporters will be phased out in favor of efficient drawbacks.
(4) Staff training.- Agreement to reduce risk of subsequent transfer of Project-trained officials, denying their
agency the benefit of the training, and to fund replacement training where necessary.
(5) Mid-term review.- By December 2000, MOC, NBR and FBCCI will conduct with IDA and collaborating
agencies a mid-term review of project implementation and, if necessary, take action to modify the project scope.
Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Charles Draper    Sector Manager: Marilou Uy       Country  irector: Frederick Temple



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                             Page 24
Country: Bangladesh                                                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annexes



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                  page 25
Country: Bangladesh                                                                                                 Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance Indicators             Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
(see Annex IA for Annotation)            Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                       (Goal to Bank Mission of poverty
To support the Government's anti-poverty strategy    * GDP growth rate raised, attributable to  IDA Periodic Economic  reduction)
of encouraging labor intensive, export- and private   expanded exports.                  Update (PEU)          Government will continue to avoid
sector-led growth through enhanced enterprise and                                                               policies that worsen income
a competitive enabling environment.                                                      PCU analysis and Ind-  distribution or sustain anti-export bias
ependent Mid-term &    in incentives.
Final Evaluation (MFE)
Project Development Objective:                                                                                 (Objective to CAS Goal)
To expand the range, depth, and amount of export   * Export share of GDP raised.         PEU                    Government will avoid policies that
production by                                  * Net value added share of export proceeds   C                   bias investment towards capital
(1) enhancing entrepreneurship via the delivery of   raised.                             Caculabon by PCU      intensive (contrary to comparative
effective technical assistance through new private                                                             advantage) or domestic market
and improved public channels and               * Concentration indices decreased for     Calculation by PCU     production.
(2) removing critical business environment     products and markets
constraints to product and market diversification,  * Exporters better oriented to market needs   Survey of beneficiaries
including increased value added through backward
linkages.                                                                     All above:  MFE
Project Outputs under Component 1,                                                                              (Outputs to Development Objective)
Product and market development support (PM:DS)
1 (a) Exporters enabled by MGF grants to develop   Individual firms' MGF disbursement with  PCU Survey of User    Trade barriers not raised by
new products, processes and markets by financial    observable results or good prospects total    Satisfaction (SUS);  destination countries, nor subsidies
support to match their own individual and collective   $US4 million by Jun. 2001 and $US8 million  IDA supervision  provided by competitors, to thwart the
technical assistance expenditures and efforts.  by Jun. 2002. * Subsector MGF programs    missions (SPN); MFE    Bangladesh effort
implemented and appreciated by firms
1 (b) Advice rendered to exporters on business  number 2 by Jun. 2001 and 3 more by Dec.
planning and sources of expertise to facilitate their   2002 (utilizing up to $US2 million).
access to the above assistance.
(see Annex 2A for more detailed indicators
1 (c) Institutions, habits and cultures developed -    Indicative only: * Satisfactory certification,  SUS; SPN; MFE  -do.-
through MGF and other PMD activities - that would  standards and/or testing arrangements for 2
provide a basis for continuing export diversification   export subsectors by Dec. 2000 and 2 more
and growth in response to changing external    by Mar. 2002. * Graduates of courses
circumstances following the Project.           deemed high priority by their firms total 200
by Dec. 2000 and another 300 by Mar. 2002.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                  Page 26
Country: Bangladesh                                                                                                 Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Narrative Summary                         Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
(see Annex IA for Annotation)            Evaluation              (Outputs to Objective)
Project Outputs under Component 2,
Trade management capacity building (TMCB)
New SBW monitoring system operational
2 (a) * More competitive pricing of traded goods and    by Jun. 2000; no SSW applicant too hard to  SUS; SPN; PCU; MFE
reduced transactions costs achieved for exporters -  monitor by Jun. 2001.                                        -do.-
through streamlined facilities to give access to world-    *D  ltrtsfr5%o  ao  oetc         SS  P;PU   F
pricedinputsand spedy pot cleaance-,inputs by Jun.2000; all indirect export being
* More efficient and reliable valuation, taxation and  well served by DEDO by Jun. 2001.
monitoring of export and related import transactions -  Y2prbeavtdwihn19adnw
representing solid commencement of medium-term    s y2ke operoblem alavertedciti 1999 andnewMF
Customs modernization program to adopt nsk-       sse   prtoa  yDc  00                       P;PU   E
management and post-audit technologies.           * Modernization program launched succ-
essfully: NBR culture changing; staff trained;  SUS; SPN; PCU; MFE
export clearance streamlined and other   (Benchmark values to
Customs service delivery improved,       be developed by CM-I
clients' costs reduced; clients satisfied.  Sbrjc  em
(see Annex 2D for detailed indicators)   Sbrjc  em
2 (b) * Staff trained, relative protection analyzed, costs  * BTC staff deemed proficient in ERP                   Protection policy change occurs to
computed, trade-offs discussed, and process       analysis number 4 by Jun.2000 and 8 by    PCU; SPN; MFE          reduce anti-export bias
established, facilitating increased public and private  Sep.2001 (certification to be defined)
commitment to trade liberalization - and thus possibly   * High quality studies and well conducted
resumed implementation thereof.haig.   ahpe  er                                              C;P;F
* Staff trained and process established, giving MOC herns4eahpryr.CUSNMF
and/or BTC strong technical capability to backstop the   *MOC/BTC staff conversant with procedures                Trading partners continue to
initiation, negotiation, execution and compliance -  for incurring and enforcing trade treaty  SUS; SPN; MFE       cooperate
monitoring of official trade arrangements that facilitate   obligations and with the scope for economic
export.                                           gains from further cooperation number 4 by
* Information systems installed and functioning to  Jun.2000 and 8 by Sep.2001.
support both the above.                           *Data systems fully effective.            SPN; MFE
2 (c) * Prefeasibility studies and other convincing  *Two satisfactory major studies per year on   SPN; MFE        Government and private investors
arguments made for bankable new investments,      each of institutional development and export                    respond positively to revealed
essential legal/procedural reforms, and public support   constraints                                               opportunities for investment, reform
agency reorganizations, to remove key infrYastructural                                                             and reorganization when convincing
and process constraints on export growth and/or                                                                    cases are made.
diversification.                                  Steering Cttee and private clients of project   SUS; SPN; MFE
* Effective coordination provided for inputs and the  activities satisfied with PCU performanceSteigCmieesposPU
above outputs, and further support activities developed.  Several subprojects developed     SPN, MFESteigCmteesposPU



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                   Page 27
Country: Bangladesh                                                                                                   Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Project Components (Subprojects and their components)  T   Project Inputs   T Monitoring and                   Critical Assumptions
(see Annex 2 for detailed descriptions)       I (Subproj. Budgets)     Evaluation             (Subprojects/components to Outputs)
1. Product and market development support (PMDS) to enable export diversification and promote learning
1 (a) Matching Grant Facility: Grants for individual firms  Grant funds:       SPN                * Government and associations avoid excessive
(exporters and service providers) and for groups' PMD initiatives  IDA US$ 12.0m  Disbursement    control or political influence in grant administration.
(activities specified by subsector).                       Firms US$ 12.Om     reports (DBR)      * Associations are able to persuade beneficiary
Administration:          _members to contribute cash for collective activities.
1 (b) MGF administration and advisory services (which also will  IDA US$ 3.8m  Project progress
contribute to constraints identification and analysis in 2 (c)).  (mainly Cons.)  monitoring (PCU)
I (c) Other PMD Subprojects: E.g. Support for public, private  IDA US$ 1 m+    To be determined   * Government maintains neutral policies between
or collective certification/ standards/testing services, quota and/  GOB US$ 0.27m  as subprojects are  public institutions and private initiatives.
or oigin monitoring functions, enterprise training to improve  Parallel funding  designed for IDA
quality/productivity, and/or other activities to be identified during  ITC, others in  & GOB approval
Project implementation.
2. Trade management capacity building (TMCB) to facilitate competitive pricing of traded goods
2 (a) Customs Phase I - under GOB Revenue Administration   IDA US$ 8.25m       SPN; DBR;PCU    * GOB commitment to fundamental reform does not
Modernization Program (RAMP): * streamlined export and     (incl. $4.15m Cons.                    weaken in the face of staff resistance to hard decisions
related import clearance procedures; * installation of Customs    & $2.76m Equipmt.)             to be taken on replacement and integrity issues.
data system such as ASYCUDA++ or similar, and of other MIS    GOB US$ 1.46m                       a NBR takes advantage of sophisticated monitoring to
capacity; * improved special bonded warehouse scheme                                              be liberal in issuing licenses.
monitoring; * improved duty drawback replacing cash        Parallel funding:                      * NBR retains high quality staff in SBW and DEDO
compensation, and * piloting post-audit, risk-management,  WCO in kind                            administrations, and overcomes difficulties in moving/
other new methods/culture/structures.                                                             upgrading staff and changing work ethic throughout
Customs and other revenue administrations.
2 (b) Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation: * training   IDA US$ 3.3m     SPN; DBR;PCU    * BTC find and implements the means to retain or
and advice to strengthen trade policy analysis, complementing    (mainly Cons.)                   readily replace proficient staff.
reforms that may have been agreed under PFP - or helping to    GOB US$ 0.73m                      * BTC policy advice reflects results of analysis of
induce them by assisting protection measurement; * training  Parallel funding:                    relative protection for export v. import substitution.
and advice to raise the capacity of Commerce Ministry and BTC   UKDFID US$O.85m                   * Government resists pressure to retain protection for
for managing official trade cooperation; * information systems    WTO in hnd                      domestic market and to depend on protective taxes for
to support both protection analysis and trade cooperation.                                        revenue (see Output to Objective assumption).
2 (c) Coordination & Development: PCU responsible for:    IDA US$ 2.35m        SPN; DBR; PCU    * Other agencies cooperate with PCU to ensure quality
facilitating and monitoring Project activities, * identifying and  (mainly Cons.)                 studies and recommendations.
analyzing constraints, * advising on needs for institutional  GOB US$ 0.39m
reorganization,, and * developing new PMD subprojects and  FBCCI in kind (=
activities (1 (c) etc.).                                   about US$ 0.1m)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 28
Country: Bangladesh                                                               Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 1A
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Since resources for TA activities can easily be wasted, it is essential to have a set of performance indicators through which the
Project Monitoring and Evaluation process will, in a timely way, (a) impose continuous discipline on the Project's
implementing parties, (b) facilitate refinement of the design if necessary at mid-term, and (c) provide a fair basis for final
evaluation. Indicators are needed to measure both outputs and their development impact on the one hand, and inputs and the
process towards achieving that impact on the other. In the case of this Project, the inputs are component-specific, while the
impact is a mixture of component-specific outputs and results that will be attributable to the combination of all the
components.
Taking the combination first, progress on achieving the broad Project objective of sustainable export growth, especially
through diversification, will be measured by three sets of indicators against FY99 baseline data which will be established by
the PCU and agreed with IDA within three months of the consultants' mobilization about the beginning of FY00:
(1)     Increased national growth rate of exports and their share of GDP - indicating more strongly export-led
growth. This "framework indicator" is needed if only as a point of reference to help assure that narrower goals are not being
achieved by diverting resources at the expense of overall export growth 3 It will require careful qualitative analysis rather
than simple achievement of predetermined numeric targets, since a variety of exogenous factors may enhance or retard the
Project's own impact. The analysis will need to control for such factors as unexpected shocks like floods and external market
changes as well as for exchange management or trade policy changes on which the Project may have only indirect if any
influence. Moreover, the improvements that may be attributable to the Project, especially to its learning curve dimension,
may be measurable only towards its closure and especially in subsequent years, when unassisted firms will follow examples
pioneered in the MGF subproject or take advantage of the improved operating environment.
(2)    Reduced national dependence on a narrow range of export products and markets - indicating diversification.
This can be measured more easily, since it relates more closely to specific Project activities, especially its large MGF
subproject. The expected product and market diversification will be measured broadly by changes in their respective "Gini"
concentration coefficients, and more specifically by comparing the export growth rates from particular industries with large
and small export shares in the base year (e.g. knitwear v. horticultural products).
(3)     Reduced national export dependence on imported inputs- indicating enhanced value added. This also relates
fairly closely to specific Project activities, especially the help for indirect and partial exporters in the Customs subproject. Like
the concentration measures, the value added ratios need to be measured and assessed at the industry level, since increases in
ihem are desirable only if they do not occur at the expense of quantity or quality.
The direct impact of the matching grant subproject will be assessed mainly in terms of observable changes in assisted firms'
capacity to expand exports in future, without assistance. Surveys at the beginning, middle and end of the Project period will
include comprehensive site visits to a minimum of 10% of grant recipients and a control group of similar firms not assisted by the
facility, and be supplemnented by data on all recipients retained by the management contractor. The evaluation will seek also to
gather some information on indirect impact on unassisted firms.4 The detailed performance indicators will be agreed with IDA
following the contractor's mobilization but could include the following four sets:
(4)     Increased exports by the assisted firms. The surveys will ascertain. (a) the achievement of an average annual
export performance equivalent to a multiple of the cost of the grants paid to thie firms, and (b) a larger increase in exports
among firms in the program as compared to the control group.
(5)     Competitiveness improvements in the assisted firms. The surveys will compare competitiveness indicators of
assisted firms with those of the control group, including production costs, workforce skill levels, other productivity indicators,
and market share. Other indicators will include adoption of new management processes such as export programming, new
distribution channels, launch of new products, and use of consultants for problem solving.
3 Even the broad objective of export-led growth is not an unqualified proxy for poverty reduction, since exports should not be favored at
the expense of highly efficient import replacement or non-traded activities
4 The "demonstration effect" of assisting some firms on others is not expected to be measurable even at the end of the three-year period
This should be examined in subsequenit surveys, however.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 29
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(6)    Quality improvements in the assisted firms. The surveys will compare indicators of product quality improvement
among assisted firms and the control group such as quality certifications (including ISO-9000), value increases, and rejection
rate decreases.
(7)    Export-oriented behavioral features. The surveys will inquire into customer orientation, institutionalization of
quality assurance and continuing product development, employee motivation, and company image. They will also specifically seek to
evaluate the willingness of firms to continue using specialist services but at full market prices.
In addition to such results indicators, performance will be monitored at the process level. As part of its contract, the
management contractor will develop and obtain MGF Board approval of an annual work plan for each twelve-month period of
operation of the contract. The plan will specify in detail the activities to be carried out in order to launch and promote the scheme,
and to manage it under the terms of the approved Statement of Policies & Operating Procedures. It will also specify the man-day
inputs for each activity. Progress made in achieving the plan targets, plus proposed modifications, would be reported to the Board
within 10 days of the end of each operational calendar quarter. The report should include data on: each application received, value
plus one paragraph describing the activity; each applications approved, value plus one paragraph on expected impact;
each applications rejected, one paragraph describing reasons; breakdown of approvals by subsector, size of firm, and type of
grant; number of site visits; number and value of disbursements and time elapsed after authorization; and
project implementation issues. The value of grants approved resulting from the contractor's promotional and appraisal work
is expected to reach US$4 million in each fiscal year. The contractor is also expected to gather and compile infonnation which
would assist the impact evaluations discussed above
The impact of the Customs subproject will be measured in terms of indicators specific to its various components,
(8)    Customs service delivery improvements. Streamlining export procedures (Component 1) and piloting more
fundamental departures from transactions-based assessment (Component 5) should facilitate trade. Specific FY99
benchmarks and expectations for FY0O-02 in this regard will be developed by the Consultants and agreed with NBR/IDA
shortly after mobilization.5 They are expected to measure changes, compared with FY99, in such variables as: (a) cost of
complying with Customs procedures in terms of facilitation payments, sales lost or costs increased by clearance delays, etc.;
(b) the cost-effectiveness of services provided, elapsed time for various key procedures, and number of disputes; (c) ratio of
legal to illegal imports, with a methodology for this to be developed with help from the PATC and PCU advisory teams; and
(d) client satisfaction, especially on the part of exporters, to be determined by surveys. They shall include the following
quantitative indicators which were agreed with NBR at Negotiations:
Numbers for June of:   1999, 2000, 2001, 2002
*  Import or export clearance signatures, maximum:                                    25   15,  10,   5.
*  Export clearance time with process start and end points to be
defined, maximum hours for 95% of consigmnents:                                   72,  24,  8,   3.
*  Percent of import consignments plysically inspected (genuinely
random + identified through risk management), daily maximum                       100,  20,  10,  10;
and percent of those identified through risk management that yield results:         0,   5,  15,  25.
*  Percent of consignmts w/ electronic entiy by importer/exporter, minimum:            0,   5,  10, 25.
*  Number of professionally trained auditors in NBR:                                   0,   5,  25, 50.
(9)    Improved Customs/NBR information systems. Successful implementation of the proposed new Customs data and
management information systems (Component 2) will be assessed through the following indicators: (a) Y2k problems averted
within 1999; (b) unique TIN applied to all Customs transactions within by June 2000; (c) ASYCUDA++ or similar system
operational by December 2000; (d) satisfactory performance of other MIS systems by that date, with (e) further improvement
in 2001. Specific benchmarks and expectations for the MIS will be developed by the Consultants and agreed with NBR/IDA
shortly after mobilization.
(10)   Liberalised bonded warehouse scheme. Successful implementation of the proposed SBW monitoring system
(Component 3) will be assessed through the following indicators: (a) new system operational for existing licensees by June
2000; (b) no potential SBW applicant being considered "too hard to monitor" by June 2001, enabling (c) new rules to be
promulgated and effective by that date to open the system to partial exporters in most industries.
(11)    Expanded duty drawback scheme. Successful implementation of the proposed expansion of the DD scheme
(Component 4) will be assessed through the following indicators: (a) flat rates available for 50% of major domestic inputs by
June 2000; and (b) Cash Compensation Scheme phased out by June 2001, with all indirect exporters being well served by
DEDO.
5It is recognized, of course, that much greater progress is likely to occur beyond the Project's three-year horizon, when the piloted process
changes may be applied to all imports and other elements of the Modermization Program may be implemented



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 30
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Apart from these results indicators, performance monitoring will occur at the process level with respect to the work plan
which the subproject team will develop and have endorsed by NBR management shortly after mobilization of the contractor's
team members. An illustrative example of such a plan for the major Component 5 is included in Annex 2D below for
reference. Progress on implementing the approved plan and any proposed modifications should be discussed among the
subproject team, NBR management and the PCU on the basis of a progress report to be provided by the team within 10 days of
the end of each operational calendar quarter.
Unless the capacity building vrotection analysis and trade cooperation subproject is paralleled rather than followed by trade
liberalization, its economic impact will be felt only beyond the Project period. Accordingly the performance indicators will
relate mainly to the process of capacity building, viz:
(12)    Technical staff training in trade policy analysis. Success in this area will be measured by the number of staff
proficient in ERP analysis: 4 by June 2000, 8 by June 2001; all retained or adequately replaced by June 2002.
(13)   Technical staff training in trade cooperation. Similarly, success here will depend on thew number of staff
proficient in rules, procedures and/or economics of incurring, monitoring and enforcing trade treaty obligations: 4 by June
2000, 8 by June 2001; all retained or adequately replaced by June 2002.
(14)   Processes for ensuring balanced analysis. Performance will be measured by: (a) the number of high quality (peer
reviewed) analytical studies on subsectors or themes: at least 4 per year including one overview of protection; and (b) the
number of well conducted public hearings with broad participation of affected interests: at least 4 per year.
(15)   Sustainability of capacity built by the subproject. Sustainability will be judged by: (a) a satisfactory system and
rules in place by June 2001 to ensure retention or appropriate replacement of technically trained staff in MOC and BTC; (b)
the appointment of high caliber BTC Members with appropriate experience when present Members are replaced; and (c)
substantial improvement in the autonomy and authority of the BTC as an organization: institutional review completed by June
2000, satisfactory reorganization plan approved by December 2000, and fully implemented by June 200 1.
With respect to process indicators, this subproject will have arrangements similar to those noted above for Customs, but with
MOC and BTC as the joint endorsing authority and with the plan covering both IDA/BDXDP- and DFID/TPCBP-financed
activities.
The scope of the coordination and development subproject is divided between project management functions and analytical
aspects of export promotion. Two sets of success indicators are prescribed for eachi of these aspects:
(16)   Project monitoring. The PCU's performance in this area will be evaluated in terms of the quality of (a) the analysis
it undertakes to establish quantitative benchmarks and to measure progress against them; (b) its regular progress reports on
all the subprojects' inputs and outputs; and (c) the surveys of user satisfaction which it will conduct in cooperation with MGF,
Customs and PATC subproject teams.
(17)   Project accounts. The Unit's performance in this area will be certified by the independent audit's findings with
respect to timeliness, accuracy, and methodological consistency with LACI and COSTAB.
(18)   Institutional development analysis. Performance will be judged by the annual completion of at least two
satisfactory major studies on such topics as BTC, MOC, quota monitoring, and institutions for accreditation, certification and
standards. One of the second year's studies should produce satisfactory proposals on the reorganization of the EPB, role of
business organizations in export promotion, and institutionalization of the PCU's own work.
(19)    Export constraints analysis. Performance will be judged by the annual completion of (a) at least two satisfactory
major studies on such topics as export finance/guarantee, port/factory transport logistics, international air/sea freight services,
other infrastructure, standards issues, etc. -- one of whiclh may be a compilation of several minor topics; and (b) at least two
thoroughly prepared subproject proposals or investment prefeasibility studies - one of which may be a compilation of
summary proposals for donors (e.g the IF Round Table in 1999).
With respect to process indicators, this subproject will have arrangements similar to those noted above for Customs, but with
MOC as the endorsing authority.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 31
Country: Bangladesh                                                                Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
.. rr. iE      EEE       --.          E................. .   ........   .  E..--...E. E : 
- -? E S? jIS ---g E : - :02 I: -W - gE -S S..   . . ..             .             . . .g.f   E
Producta'nd ma,r ket dv elopm'n              t s'pr t  eable expor dive 'sifi c'tion a' promo-te e fear 'le
.       CE  ....i.      ....... ..  . . -  i  .-..E iy i ....R   ....  EE.                        .... .......- ........-.. i   22R:  - -.
-c     risin a matinggrt faciitynd other P )tivi.tiesdto eveloped d         -                             ............
.. (total..cost.US$29,73 million includilg $16.80 million IDA}
The product and market development support (PMDS) component comprises funding of a Matching Grant Facility, one
major TA subproject to manage the Facility, and several other subprojects to be developed during Project implementation. It
addresses a number of market failures which hold back the rate at whiclh exporters in Bangladesh can exploit their
comparative advantage in the international marketplace. These include lack of awareness of the types of services that can
assist exporters, lack of knowledge on how to access these services from abroad and locally, and the perceived high costs of
these services by exporters. There has also been little development of local services to help firms build export
competitiveness. Examples of services to be supported by the Project are those that help diversify exports through product
improvement or development and expansion of export markets. Specific activities include advisory services, quality
improvement initiatives, management and staff training, marketing research and exploration trips, product testing, and
shipping of samples. Provision of these services will be market-based and tailored to specific needs of exporters or groups of
exporters. In addition, the Project Component will encourage local service providers to speed up the development of local
business support services Examples of the types of such services to be supported include travel to develop joint ventures
with foreign specialist firms, training staff, and bringing in short-term foreign specialist to help build new services.
I (a) and (b) Matching Grant Facility
($28.46 million including $15.80 million IDA)
(a) Grants for private firms and groups' PMD initiatives and for service providers ($24 million of which $12 million
paid by participating firms and $12 million by IDA).- The MGF is a temporary instrument to encourage in an active
manner the use of business support services to enhance finns' export capabilities by providing grants covering 50% of the
cost of service fees and associated travel expenses. Grants can be made either to exporters acquiring services or to firns
gearing up to provide them. Eligible initiatives will include any activity which will build export competitiveness, e.g. quality
itmprovement initiatives, testing and certification of process and product, enterprise training focused on export needs,
technical assistance to help with product adaptation and market identification and development.
Key characteristics (see the Statentent of Policies and Operating Procedures, Annex 2A, forfurther detail)
.  Basic criteria: The MGF will provide quick disbursing grants on a 50:50 basis, expected to be committed within a three
year period. Grants are intended for (i) individual firms or small groups thereof as service-users, and (ii) private firms,
NGOs or associations as service-providers. It is expected that individual service users will form the majority of
beneficiaries. "Deemed exporters" supplying products within Bangladesh are eligible if they (will) supply goods or
services to direct exporters.
*  Exceptions to the 5050 rule will be strictly "ring-fenced": There will be no exceptions for exporters, and the general
rule for export support services requiring more than 50% and/or receiving other public funding is to appraise them as
separate subprojects outside the MGF -- see 1 (c) etc below
*  Conflict of interest rules: Any beneficiary of matching or non matching grant funding cannot be involved in MGF
supervision or otherwise associated with it. Firms associated with the management contractor may not be beneficiaries,
and Board members will declare and excuse themselves from cases involving industries in wilch they have any interest.
. Maximnum grant size: No single industry will receive more than 20% of total grant funds. For this purpose "industry"
may be defined as, for example, knitwear, furniture, frozen fish, woven RMG. No single firm within an industry may
receive more than $200,000. The MGF Board and IDA may review these caps from time to time.
* Basic firm eligibility: Grants are not intended to relieve financial distress, so currently "sick" enterprises would need
recovery plans that would enable any MGF-created or -identified opportunities to be exploited. Similarly, firms not in
compliance with Bangladesh's labor or environmental laws need to have firm plans to correct their status.
*  Eligible activities: Any business support services determined by an individual firm to support export diversification is
eligible. While the facility will not finance capital investment, it could assist preparation of bankable projects.
* Available funds: The allocation is based on the Estinmated Demandfor the Matching Grant Facility (Annex 2B).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 32
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(b) MGF administration and advisory services (S4.46 million including $3.8 million IDA).- The MGF will be
administered by a Board and a professional management team under contract for the duration of the Project. The team will
be fielded by the Trade Development Institute of Ireland, which [has been] appointed through a competitive bidding process.
Contract implementation will include the provision of advisory and administration services for three market-building
interventions: (i) active promotion to the private sector of the benefits of utilizing support services to diversify exports, (ii)
on-going hand-holding advice on the process, development of grant requests, and identification of service providers, and (iii)
administration of the matching grants to exporters and service providers The management team also will contribute to
constraints identification and analysis under Subproject 2 (c) below.
Management team:
International consultants:
* MGF manager = Senior technical advisor (STA/team leader), 36 months
* Deputy manager/controller (initial period), 16 months
* Export development advisors, several totaling 24 months
* Headquarters back-up services, equivalent to 6 months                   (Subtotal international: 82 months)
Local consultants:
* Deputy manager, 20 months following understudy period 16 months
. Export development advisors, several totaling 48 months                 (Subtotal local: 84 months)
Support staff.
Key characteristics:
. Administration of the MGF. The fund will be administered jointly by: (i) a seven member MGF Supervisory Board
composed of public and private representatives, and (ii) the contracted MGF management team funded by IDA. The
contractor will operate the fund under Annual Operating Plans by accepting, evaluating, and approving (delegated
categories of) grant applications subject to Board oversight, and maintaining performance and financial records.
* Establishment offund management. The Board will adopt the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures (SPOP,
see Annex 2A) and [has participated] in the contracting process initiated during project appraisal, in preparation for
implementation as soon after IDA Credit effectiveness as possible.
. Board responsibility The Board will be responsible for reviewing and approving Annual Operating Plans submitted by
the contractor, and supervising the operation of the scheme through these annual plans and through Quarterly Operating
Reports submitted by the contractor, comparing actual performance with planned.
. Approval process. The MGF approval process, while conforming with GOB and IDA accounting requirements, will be
designed to be swift disbursing by applying prescribed transparent criteria announced publicly by the Board through the
SPOP. Approval of applications will be granted either at Board meetings, by "no objection" on circulated files, or by
delegation to the Unit The Board will thoroughly monitor performance, on an ex post basis.
I (c) etc. Other PMD Subprojects
(Initial allocation $1.27 million including $1.0 million IDA)
These activities are to be identified and developed during Project implementation, mainly by the Project Coordination and
Development Unit in the course of its constraints and institutional analyses (see Subproject 2 (c) below) but with active
contributions from the MGF team and other Project staff They could include support for public, private or collective:
* accreditation, certification, standards, or testing services (e g. Department of Fisheries laboratory),
* quota and/or origin monitoring functions (e.g. MOC garment quota management in cooperation with BGMEA), and
* institutionalized enterprise training to improve quality/productivity (e.g certain skills of interest to various exporters).
Criteria for IDA/GOB approval of such subprojects will include their:
. expected direct contribution to the diversification of export products or markets or to incrcasing value added,
* complementarity with other project activities,
* focus on the development of sustainable capacity and expertise for supporting export production and/or marketing,
especially in the private sector or in areas requiring public/private cooperation, and/or
* strengthening of essential public capacity in trade management.
Consideration may be given also to providing project funds to support specified service or promotional activities by NGOs or
even private firms under arrangemnents not suitable for the MGF. These would be put out to tender and funded to an extent
determined by the bid from the firm or NGO able to perform the service for the lowest subsidy.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 33
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
.. P,rojectL Comiporient:22 .
Trade managermentcapacity buildingtt&o faciliatecom:petitive pricing of dtra.ded' good.s
coprisng to suproject and a coordinatio nni
m(total cost US$6.49 million]including W9$139 ml.lion IDA)
The trade management capacity building (TMCB) component comprises three subprojects. The largest will initiate GOB's
proposed Revenue Administration Modernization Programme (RAMP) by undertaking Phase I of Customs administration
modernization. This will remove one of the most important and costly impediments in the business environment for export
activity, and at the same time test new approaches that will later be generalized to improve efficiency and equity throughout
the revenue system -- to the benefit of all honest commerce as well as placing revenue collection on a sound administrative
base. One focus of the subproject will be on the mechanisms to reduce exporters' input costs through enclave free-trade
arrangements. This trade policy theme will be taken up more broadly in the second subproject, which will address two key
dimensions of exploiting the scope for faster economic growth througlh export production: Bangladesh's unilateral process of
trade liberalization; and its participation in global and regional arrangements for trade cooperation. Finally, a coordination
subproject will combine technical work on export constraints, including institutional development needs, with the facilitation
and monitoring of the rest of the Project and the development of new subprojects under Component 1 (c) etc.
2 (a) Customs Administration Modernization, Phase I
($9.61 million including $8.25 million IDA)
This subproject will represent the first major undertaking in the GOB's proposed Revenue Administration Modernization
Program (RAMP). As well as dealing with several important changes that are sharply focussed on improving the Customs
environment for export, the subproject will pilot various process, technology, culture and organizational changes that will
ultimately be implemented for all Customs and other tax assessment and collection. It contains five components to be
implemented with technical assistance provided by an experienced consulting firm, Clapp & Mayne, of the US, which [has
been] appointed through a competitive process to field a team of international and local experts. The team will also help
NBR with other subproject components, i.e. to acquire appropriate equipment, and to coordinate inputs from (a) fee-free
experts provided through the WCO, and (b) systems support which UNCTAD may need to provide to ensure successful
installation of ASYCUDA++.
Consulting team:
International consultants on:
*  Customs modernization = Senior teclnical advisor (team leader), 36 months
*  Information technology / ASYCUDA, 36 months
*  Information systems, 36 months
*  Customs risk management, 6 months
*  Customs audit policy and practice, 6 months
*  Customs bonded warehouse management, 6 months
8  ASYCUDA training, 6 months                                     (Subtotal international IDA: 132 s/months)
o  Several experts provided through the World Customs Organization
(only travel and subsistence financed by the Project)        (Subtotal WCO. 8 months)
Locally recruited consultants on:
*  Customs modernization, 36 months
  .nformation technology / ASYCUDA, 36 months
*  Information systems, 36 months                                (Subtotal ordinary local: 108 s/months)
I[mplementation liaison and computing staff.
*  Imnplementation manager, 36 months
*  implementation officers, four x 36 = 144 months
*  Junior Implementation officers, two x 36 = 72 months
*  Computer programmers/systems analysts (12) and operators (16),
912 s/months w/ cost shared between IDA and GOB, each 1.5 yrs    (Subtotal impl/comp staff: 1164 s/months)
Subproject components:
(I) Streamlined export and related-import clearance procedures.- The consultants and their NBR counterparts will design
and introduce fast-track procedures for the clearance of exports and of imports associated with exports (to pilot such
procedures for application to all imports in Phase II) Specific steps will include:
reviewing present operating procedures by Customs, other authorities (port, airport, security, etc.), and service providers



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 34
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(carriers, local transport, container facilities, clearing agents, etc.) whichi affect the flow of goods during import/export;
* identifying changes in requirements, functions and relationships that would expedite the flows;
* designing, implementing, and closely monitoring a pilot scheme involving a significant proportion of exports and the
imports associated with them to test the new procedures; and
* identifying refinements that would be necessary to mainstream the fast track procedures.
(2) Installation of ASYCUDA++ and other MIS capacity.- The consultants and their NBR counterparts -- in cooperation
with UNCTAD or other provider of inputs under a separate contract -- will organize implementation of ASYCUDA "++" or
equivalent system to replace version "2.6/2,7", extending its scope to all Customs entry points, and taxpayer access. Specific
steps will include:
* reviewing, refining and gaining approval of the "A++" plan prepared for NBR in 1998;
* validating or correcting the present prescription, and arranging the procurement and installation of equipment;
* training operators in data capture, verification, and analysis techniques;
* managing the switches from "2.6" to "2.7" within 1999 at NBR and the Dhaka and Chittagong customshouses and NBR
HQ, and then to "A++" or similar system within 2000;
* managing extension to all import and export transactions;
* designing links with the data processing for other tax instruments (and perhaps with preshipment assessments);
*  designing reporting formats for "A++" or equivalent and other MIS (in consultation with BB, BTC, and other users);
* if applicable, arranging hand-over of "A++" maintenance to UNCTAD Kuala Lumpur (about July 2001); and
* ensuring smooth implementation of links and reporting mechanisms.
The other management information systems that NBR may require (apart from ASYCUDA or equivalent) are to be planned
in detail after mobilization of the team, building on the initiatives taken under the ETAC subproject of TA-VI.
(3) Improved special bonded warehouse scheme monitoring.- The consultants and their NBR counterparts will design and
introduce new monitoring procedures to make the bonding scheme relatively leakage-proof, and thus enable the more liberal
availability of the scheme to a wide range of industries including producers for both export and domestic markets. Specific
steps will include:
* reviewing in-depth the present operation of the scheme, including producers' dependence on proftts from leaked inputs
and products that evade CDVAT;
* designing a monitoring mechanism, linked to or based in the new ASYCUDA, that is not onerous for importer-exporters
but which tracks and relates imports, domestic purchases, domestic sales of inputs and goods (subject to CDVAT),
exports of goods, and re-exports of inputs;
* piloting the proposed mechanism on a selection of existing SBWs,
* justifying a policy change to issue SBW licenses to producers in any industry, including those intending to sell part of
their imported inputs and/or their products (rejects, etc ) legally in the domestic market, and recommending incentives
for them to do so;
* arranging equipment (if necessary),
* training staff and educating licensees' accountants in the new procedures; and
*  managing the first year of operation under the new licensing scheme and monitoring procedures.
(4) Improved duly drawback replacing cash compensation.- The consultants and DEDO staff will design and introduce new
procedures to facilitate (a) payment of CD, VAT and SD drawback immediately upon export slhipment, and (b) easy receipt
of drawback by indirect exporters. Specific steps will include:
* designing the new procedures;
*  designing the consequent changes in the computerization system including links or access to ASYCUDA, staff training,
and equipment upgrading requirements;
* introducing the new procedures on a pilot basis;
* justifying a policy change to dispense with the requirement for proceeds realization certificates (PRC) before payout;
* procuring equipment;
* training staff,
*  mainstreaming the new procedures; and
* justifying a policy change to replace the present cash compensation scheme (CCS) for fabric producers by the streamlined
access to drawback for indirect exporters.
(5) Piloting post-audit, risk-management, and other new methods/culture/structures.- The consultants and their NBR
counterparts, in cooperation with WCO and other advisors to NBR, will design, pilot, and plan the implementation of new
procedures and organizational arrangements due to be operationalised coimnencing by CY2002, and will prepare staff and
taxpayers for them through training and recruitment activities. Specific steps will include:
* designing procedures to implement the substantial replacement of transactions-based operations by ex post tax audits,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 35
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
supported by sophisticated modem risk management techniques;
* indicating linkages and synergies among parallel changes in Customs and other tax administration (in cooperation with
the Modernization Group's VAT/Excise and Direct Tax Teams),
* review successful, relevant experience elsewhere in developing organizational arrangements conducive to efficient
Customs and other tax administration (e.g. Uganda's new Revenue Authority), and design an arrangement suitable for
Bangladesh;
. defining legislative changes that may be needed to authorize the new procedures and organization;
* defining staffing requirements for implementing them, including detailed plans for training, recruitment, restructuring,
and remuneration;
. building up-front political, bureaucratic, taxpayer, and staff consensus for the proposed changes, including through a first
batch of taxpayer education and staff training programs; and
. operating pilot programs to introduce new processes.
Specific outputs and their key performance indicators for this component (5) are shown in Annex 2D.
Training activities:
A substantial training program provisionally budgeted at $0.85 million will combine local on-the-job training, formal
courses and workshops for about 400 staff, and study tours and other foreign training for about one-third that number.
Topics range from ASYCUDA operation and other computer literacy to the more specialized subjects of risk management,
auditing, drawback systems and warehouse bonding. The separate memorandum of understanding with UNCTAD is
expected to cover part of the ASYCUDA requirements, while others will be facilitated by the main consulting team.
Equipment and works:
A $3.24 million budget provides mainly for electronic detection gear, computing and networking equipment, and site
renovation for housing the latter properly. Most of this expenditure may occur early in the subproject period to facilitate
both short- and medium-term measures to reduce rent-seeking and smuggling. Some could be delayed until ASYCUDA++
is installed in 2000, however, providing an opportunity for significant process changes to occur -- with the consultants' help
-- before ++-related equipment expenditures will be incurred. This should help ensure effective use of thie equipment.
2 (b) Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation
($4.03 million including $3.30 m IDA & $0.85 m DFID parallel financing)
This subproject has two distinct major components addressing protection analysis and other support for tariff reform, and
global/regional trade cooperation, a supporting data management component, and a contribution to a reorganization study.
It will be located primarily in the Bangladesh Tariff Coimmission, but the trade cooperation component will also involve
systems and staff of the Ministry of Commerce The subproject will be implemented partly with parallel funding by the
United Kingdom's Department for International Development's Trade Policy Capacity Building Project, and perhaps with
fee-free experts on global trade cooperation provided through the World Trade Organization An experienced consulting
finn, Maxwell Stamp PLC, of the UK, [has been] appointed througlh a competitive process under IDA guidelines to help
MOC/BTC utilize and coordinate those resources as well as to field and supervise its own substantive inputs.
Consulting team
International consultants:
*  Senior technical advisor (STA/team leader), 36 months
*  Information system advisor, 15 months
.  Subsector analysts and trade cooperation advisors, several
totaling 29 months IDA + 1 1 months DFID *                   (Subtotal: 80 mnths IDA + 11 mnths DFID)
Local consultants:
.  Deputy technical advisor (DTA), 36 months
.  Information system advisor, 23 months including two-month
* overlap with international counterpart
*  Subsector analysts and trade cooperation advisors, several
totaling 42 months and 30 months DFID *                      (Subtotal: 101mnths IDA + 30 mnths DFID)
Support staff: Office assistants, drivers, etc
* The DFID consultants willfunction as part of the team, thouigh employed through a separate Project Management Agency.
Subproject components
(I) Trade policy analysis.- This component is intended to either complement and assist reforms that GOB may have
committed itself to under the PFP or to help induce them by raising the quality of protection measurement and analysis.
Studies, workshops, training programs and other activities will be undertaken to assist the transfer of knowledge and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 36
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
development of skills in such areas as:
* monitoring the impact of trade liberalization on the economy as a whole and on selected industries, paying particular
attention to efficient resource allocation and employment;
* analyzing effective protection at the economy wide level and in subsectors such as textile machinery and spare parts and
other capital machinery and engineering industries, ceramic products, plastic products, electronics, jute and jute
products, toiletries and cosmetics, paper and paperboard, and artificial flowers;
*  conducting public hearings and applying other techniques for ensuring equitable policy formulation;
* dealing with anti-dumping, countervailing and other safeguard measures taken by export destination countries, and
considering the application of such measures against imports;
*  measuring anti-export bias in the tariff and QR structure, and servicing formal joint GOB/IDA/IMF reviews of the degree
and effects of such bias in trade policy;
* examining through protection analysis the appropriateness of various agreements for Bangladesh, especially the
implications of moving from SAPTA to SAFTA.
(2) Official trade cooperation.- This component will strengthen or create the capacities of BTC and MOC and skills of their
staff to handle trade cooperation arrangements at the bilateral, subregional, regional and multilateral levels, including (a)
monitoring the WTO agreements in order to derive full advantage of opportunities that have emerged from the Uruguay
Round of multilateral trade negotiations and to abide by its rules and disciplines and (b) identifying key areas for regional
cooperation with particular focus on export promotion. This will involve analytical and advisory work, integrated with on-
the-job and formal training activities staff, including:
* assisting with preparation of policy briefings for Ministers and the decision makers on WTO related negotiations and
bilateral, subregional, and regional trading arrangements;
* monitoring the UR Agreements and suggesting policy actions in order to derive full advantages of opportunities that have
emerged from the Round and to abide by its rules and obligations while maximizing the transfer of knowledge to the
officials of BTC and MOC so that they can handle the issues efficiently;
* assisting GOB in preparing full consultation report on Balance of Payments as required under WTO rules and in writing
the GOB report on Trade Policy Review for the WTO;
* arranging workshops, training and seminars on various issues of WTO, regional, and subregional agreements and on
new trade issues and overseeing the delivery of all necessary inputs, and
*  conducting studies on various Uruguay Round Agreements and on new trade issues, suggesting policy actions.
Apart from the safeguards topic noted in (1) above, the focus in global cooperation is expected to be on the agreements on
* agriculture,
* technical barriers to trade, and sanitary and phyto-sanitary regulations,
* textiles and clothing,
* trade in services, and in intellectual property.
(3) Information systems to support both trade policy analysis and trade cooperation.- This component will support the
others by developing a proper information services system so that the officials of BTC will have easy access to data needed to
formulate trade related policies and assist MOC in trade cooperation arrangements, and by establislhing linkage with other
national and international organizations in order to have quick access to information and data. This will involve:
* developing information service facilities in BTC for compilation, analysis and electronic data processing of trade,
industry, and other data for monitoring and policy analysis and for supporting trade cooperation function.
* developing a Management Information System in BTC, including assessing the need for data management
hardware/software and other required inputs and preparing documents for procurement of all necessary equipment;
* maintaining regular contract with other national and international organization (WTO/UNCTAD/ITC/EU) and
establishing linkages with other national and international agency for future work in trade policy areas, and
* establishing a resource centre in BTC to include copies of all consultancy and research reports produced under the
BDXDP as well as relevant publications and issues papers produced by WTO, UNCTAD and academic institutions.
(4) Institutional development of BTC and MOC.- In addition to their substantive tasks, the subproject staff will collaborate
with the PCU team in its proposed institutional analysis aimed at recommending structural changes, including in status and
staffing, needed to enhance these organizations' in-house technical capability and impact on trade policy and management.
Training, equipment and other expenses:
Apart from the consultancy components, budgetary provision has been made for one-year external courses for four staff,
short courses abroad for 15, local seminars, information service development, technical staff travel to Trade Cooperation
meetings, and computing and communication equipment and software



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 37
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
2 (c) Coordination and Development
($2.84 million including $2.35 million IDA)
An Export Diversification Project Coordination and Development Unit (PCUJ), which may be institutionalized following the
Project period, will be responsible not only for facilitating and monitoring Project activities but also for identifyingl
analyzing constraints, advising on needs for institutional reorganization, and helping GOB develop new PMD subprojects
and activities for IDA Project or other funding. Its coordination function will be formalized through its leadership role in the
Technical Committee comprising the project directors and heads of the consulting teams for the MGF, CAM-1, PATC and
other subprojects. In addition it is represented on the MGF Board thirouglh both the PD for Coordination (= Additional
Secretary of Commerce) and the CTA (as a non-voting member). The Unit's own consulting staff will be fielded by an
experienced project management firm -- International Business and Teclnical Consultants Inc. of the US (in association
with Business and Government Strategies International of the US and Uniconsult International of Bangladesh) -- which [has
been] selected through competitive bidding under IDA guidelines.
Consulting team
International consultants:
.  Chief technical advisor (CTA/team leader), 36 months
*  Constraints and institutional analysts, several totaling 20 months    (Subtotal international: 56 months)
Local consultants:
.  Deputy technical advisor (DTA), 36 months
.  Financial management specialist, 36 months
.  Procurement specialist, 10 months
*  Constraints and institutional analysts, several totaling 40 months    (Subtotal local: 122 months)
Support staff, including an Accountant assisting the FMS
Seconded specialist(s) from FBCCI - coordinated by but not financed through the Firm -- at least 18 months.
Main activities
(1) Facilitating Project activities.- The Unit will play a dual role with respect to the other components of the Project. On the
one hand, it will facilitate them by providing coordination, accounting and procurement services and technical advice. On
the other, it will monitor their performance -- see (2) below  Specific facilitation and support services will include:
. ensuring the availability of funds by arranging timely replenishment of the Special Account;
* issuing cheques as required for payments authorized by subproject managements;
. providing accounting fornats and advice to subproject bookkeepers or, preferably, maintaining subproject financial
records on their behalf in LACI format,
  providing procurement guidelines and technical advice to subproject directors or preferably, on request, undertaking
procurement on their behalf;
* assisting subproject managements in logistic arrangements for visiting experts' arrival and departure, internal transport
arrangements, organization of workshops and seminars, access to data and local services, etc.
  advising on the suitability of proposed subproject training courses and candidate selection to achieve required subproject
human resource development objectives,
. providing peer review or other commentary on subproject technical reports;
(2) Monitoring and reporting on Project activities .- In monitoring Project and subproject performance and reporting to the
Steering Committee (representing GOB) and IDA, specific PCU activities will include, in cooperation with implementing
agencies and subproject managements:
 defining performance indicators (including export ratios and concentration indices for overall Project impact);
. verifying and consolidating subproject progress reports;
. undertaking the internal audit of subproject accounts;
* preparing any reports required by IDA in defined format;
* facilitating GOB participation in IDA supervision missions; and
* contributing to and facilitating the technical evaluation of subproject outputs;
The Unit's own facilitation activities -- see (1) above -- and substantive work -- see (3) - (6) below - will be subject to the
same monitoring and reporting process, all of which is subject to regular Teclmical Committee review, as well as mid-term
and end-of-Project impact analysis - see External Evaluation and Audit.
(3) Identifying/analyzing constraints.- A relatively small but very significant share of the Project's overall substantive work
will be undertaken by the PCU's own team - in collaboration with subproject staff where appropriate - comprising the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 38
Country: Bangladesh                                                                  Project Title: Export Diversification Project
identification and analysis of export constraints with a view to proposing feasible solutions. Topics remain to be determined
and prioritized, and a work plan will be agreed soon after mobilization and reviewed by the Technical Committee on a
regular basis. It could include any significant constraints or sources of business cost-increases that may be categorized as:
* bottlenecks which could be removed through infrastructural investments, public or private, for which the PCU
contribution could include prefeasibility cost/benefit analysis; and
* delays or other costs which could be removed through policy or procedural changes, for which the PCU contribution
could include design and advocacy of measures which would retain or provide suitable substitutes for those aspects of
regulations with public policy justification.
(4) Advising on needs for institutional reorganization.- A key subset as well as a consequence of (3) will involve
institutional analysis, in order to help GOB and FBCCI determine and implement appropriate, demand-driven institutional
mechanisms to provide export support services in the public sector or as public/private entities. In some cases this will
involve the reform of existing entities which could provide better service if they are reorganized and/or strengthened.
Entities and issues that have been tentatively pre-identified for consideration include:
. Export Promotion Bureau may need private management, commercialization, and/or separation of regulatory and
promotion responsibilities;
. Bangladesh Tariff Commission may need greater autonomy and/or broader mandate to address competition issues;
* MOC's international trade organizations and SAARC units need legal ability to retain long-term technical staff; and
. Bangladesh Standards and Testing Institute and/or Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Research may need
reorganization to serve as accreditation agencies.
(5) Developing new PMD subproiects and activities - Based on its own analytical work and other identification activities,
the Unit will assist GOB agencies and private organizations to prepare subprojects, focussed on export product and market
development, which could be financed under subcomponent I (c) of the Project or by other sources. Topics which have been
raised for consideration in this regard include technical strengthening of:
. The garment quota management, rules-of-origin certification, and other such functions now performed by EPB; and
* The Department of Fisheries certification or accreditation capability
Other subprojects may be identified in consultation with the WTO/UNCTAD International Trade Centre, other sources of
technical assistance, and/or otlher multilateral and bilateral donors. The PCU is expected to play a key role in an important
interagency process for identifying specific activities potential lielpers and donors for suclh TA, namely the Integrated
Frameworkfor Trade Related TA to Least Developed Countries. In this connexion, it will assist MOC and sector Ministries
prepare for and (with IDA) organize a national Round Table early in the Project period as well as possible follow-up events.
(6) Planning its own succession.- The work which the PCU will undertake under (2) - (5) above should not cease at the end
of the three-year Project. Accordingly, an important function of the Unit, especially during the third year, will be to prepare
for such work to continue in (an) appropriate institutional setting(s). This may mean the transfer of its responsibilities to a
revitalized and reorganized Export Promotion Bureau, to an Exporters Association or export division of the FBCCI, or to a
new entity with shared public/private management.
..    ......     ...   ..  ...   ..   .....    ............   ... ........ .  .    . ...   ....  ............
Eiternal lvIuatio  and Audit- (total cost US$0.08 million [DA-included                          i ini aboveo Pc .l tion)
. . . . . . . . . .                                                    . . . .. . .. . .                  . . . .. .. ...... . . . ... .. . . .. . . . . . ...... . .. .. ...
Apart from the Project activities described, including internal coordination and monitoring, the IDA Credit will finance
external activities to assure interim and ex-post quality assessment and thus facilitate Project mid-term review and
completion reporting by GOB and IDA. Budgetary provision in the Credit (apart from GOB and IDA staff and Consulting
Teams' inputs) is made for
(1) independent evaluations in September-October 2000 and May-June 2002 of the impact of the Project in achieving its
development objectives, especially-
* diversification results from utilization of Matching Grant Facility resources,
 contribution to trade policy reform,
.  contribution to overall revenue administration modernization (see Annex 2Dfor specific performance indicators), and
* improved business environment for export including availability of effective public and commercial services; and
(2) annual external audits of Project accounts (see Annex 6).
Unallocated provision. In addition to the above allocations, the Project budget contains US$ 1.78 million including $1.3
million IDA available for contingencies and/or additional subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 39
Country: Bangladesh                                                          Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 2A
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
(SPOP) for the Matching Grant Facility (MGF)
Objective and Essential Concepts
Objective. The Matching Grant Facility (MGF) is the m-ain element of Component I, Product and Market Development
Support (PMDS) of the Bangladesh Export Diversification Project, funded by the World Bank Group's International
Development Association ODA). The MGF will support the Government of Bangladesh's objective of diversifying and
developing exports. The MGF will serve this objective by encouraging private firms to make the fullest possible use of
external business development services (local and foreign). and o'f travel, in order to enhance their ability to compete in
export markets.
Three Instruments. Experience elsewhere indicates that firm-level supply response depends on the speed at which
each firm is able to build within itself the different skills, know-how, expertise, and market understanding required by
the fast-changing economic realities external to the firm An effective method for building these capacities within the
firm is to buy external business development services. The MGF will encourage an active market in business
development services by means of a combination of three instruments
-  Thefirst instrument consists of providing to firms free hand-holding assistance on how to go about making the best
possible use of business development services, in order to inject the skills, know-how, etc. that will build
competitiveness in new products or new markets. This assistance 'AiIll ensure optimum use of the second instrument. It
is intended to build awareness and/or confidence in enterinjg what is, for many firms, the new and unknown activity of
buying business development services.
-  The second, the core of the fund, consists of the provisions of service user grants. Private enterprises will receive
grants to cover half the costs of using business developmenit services A broad range of services is covered, including
marketing, production, skills development and general lbusiness strategy.
-  The third instrument further encourages an active local Bangladesh market in business development services by the
provision of service developer grants Local associations, or other organizations, wishing to build their capacity to
supply such services to the local market will receive grants to cover half the costs of developing them. This is intended
to match the increased demand for services with a local response on the supply side of this rrarket.
SPOP. This Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures (SPOP) specifies agreements reached under the project on
exactly how the MGF is to operate. This SPOP will have legal standing as an attachment to the IDA Credit documentation.
It has been approved by IDA and the Government of Bangladesh ahead of IDA Credit Approval.
Basic Structure of the Scheme
Resources. The MGF for individual firms and groups of exporters will have available to it funding of US$10million.
There will be additional funding of US$2 million for service developer grants to providers.6 These MGF funds are to be
committed within a three-year period. Matching contributions from the recipients make the total potential value of the
scheme US$24 million.
6 The US$12 million from IDA is part of a PMDS allocation of about USS 1 6 8 million which also wvould cover $3 8 million for MGF
advisory and administration services and USSI million (subject to incicase) for other subprojects to improve support for PMD



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 40
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title, Export Diversification Project
Impact. The overall impact of the scheme will be evaluated in terms of the project objective to be served, namely the
capacity of private firms assisted to diversify and develop exports. The impact on each individual firm will be evaluated
primarily in terms of the degree to which firms were able to translate scheme support into increased sales. As an acceptable
working target for impact, the scheme will aim for additional and continuing average annual sales of US$6 for every $1 of
once-only grant support, directly attributable to the supported firm-level plan, and to be achieved within two years of each
grant disbursement. Once the scheme has completed operations, the impact on additional annual sales will be translated into
an assessed overall impact on export diversification and development.
Level. Each individual grant to a recipient firm must be matched 50/50 by an equal contribution by the firm itself. No
preferential proportions will be given to particular sectors, types of service, finn size, firm category, or region.
Industry Cap. No single sub-sector or industry may obtain in excess of 10% of the total MGF funding of US$12million.
The following are counted as single industries: woven garments, knitted garments, specialized textile and household linen,
jute and jute products, leather and leather products, frozen foods. The cap may be changed upon agreement between the
MGF Board and IDA.
MGF Board. The MGF Board has been set up by the Government of Bangladesh charged with supervising and operating
the scheme. The Board consists of two public-sector representatives, four private-sector nominees, plus an independent
chairman. One public-sector representative represents the Ministry of Finance and the other represents the Ministry of
Commerce. One of the four private-sector nominees is nominated by FBCCI. The other three are selected on a rotating
basis from among representatives of export-oriented industry associations, in close consultation with the associations and
ensuring balance among different types of industry. The independent chairman is appointed by agreement between the
Ministry of Commerce and FBCCI When appointed, the Chief Technical Adviser attached to the Project Coordination and
Development Unit (PCU) will sit on this board ex-officio, as will the MGF Manager (see below) who provides secretariat
services to the Board
Board Meeting Quorum. The quorum for a meeting of the MGF Board to be valid is one public-sector representative plus
two private-sector nominees Each board member may nominate an alternate to represent him/her at subsequent board
meetings. Replacement of alternates must be approved by the Chairman before they begin attending meetings.
Initial Board Responsibility. The first task ofthe Board is to adopt this agreed SPOP as its manual to direct the operations
of the scheme following IDA Credit Approval.
Management Contract. The whole scheme, including its three instruments, will be run under a term contract by a
management contractor, providing the services of a small team, consisting of an expatriate MGF Manager plus a team of
expatriate and locally-recruited staff. This team would form the MGF Management Unit, headed by the Manager. The
Ministry of Commerce was responsible for the process of selecting and appointing the contractor, by means of a process of
competitive tender acceptable to IDA.
Eligibilitv
Eligibility Criteriafor Grant Support
This section of the SPOP defines "eligible firm," "eligible export diversification/development plan," "eligible service/travel
usage," and "eligible expenditures"
T7he Eligible Firm
For service user grants, only private and NGO-sponsored commercial entities are eligible. In accordance with the
established principle of "national treatment," both locally-owned and foreign-owned firms will be equally eligible.
Parastatals, government entities and other firms where the government or its agencies have effective management control, by



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 41
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
means of being the largest shareholder or by means of having a board majority, are not eligible. Indirect ("deemed')
exporters must provide evidence that their products are inputs for exporters.
For service development grants, any legal entity not already receiving significant government funding towards its regular
operating costs is eligible. This is intended to include business and industry associations, developing export support senices
to sell to their members, as well as private and NGO-sponsored commercial entities offering such services.
For either grant type, firms engaging in employment, environmental or other practices that do not conform with Bangladesh
laws shall not be eligible, unless the activity proposed for assistance will promote such conformity.
The Eligible Export Diversiflcation/Development Plan
To be eligible for grant support, the essential criterion is that the applicant firm must have written down a realistic plan for
the diversification and/or development of its export business, taking it from its present situation to some planned future
situation. This future situation must represent a significant enhancement of its ability to compete. There must be
demonstrable additionality in what is planned Merely continuing current efforts in the hope of extending sales will not be
sufficient. The plan must be realistic in the sense that it must have a reasonable chance of being implemented successfully,
given the realities of the firm's current situation. There is no requirement that the detailed specifics ofthe plan are to be
"approved" or vetted. However, the plan must demonstrate that the firm has properly considered the following essential
planning issues:
  why one particular diversification and/or development direction was chosen instead of others; on what assumptions this
direction depends; and why this development direction can be considered realistic and achievable;
  what steps are required for that development;
  what resources are 1ikely to be needed within these steps, and where will they come from;
*  how long will the process take; and what benefits are to be expected.
The degree of detail required in a particular application will depend on the size and complexity of the application. A small
firm applying for a $ 1000 grant to send an employee on a short technical course would, for instance, only be expected to
submit a one-page plan, explaining how such an activity could reasonably be expected to benefit the planned diversification
and/or development of the firn's exports. In contrast, a large firm applying for a grant of $50,000 would be expected to
address all the above points in considerable detail
The Three Typical Stages of a Plan. Typically, a plan aimed, for instance, at expanding sales into a new market, or at
developing sales of a new product, might take a firm through these three stages:
* investigation of the target market, typically starting with desk research or limited phone research, followed then by field
interviewing, either carried out by the firm's staff or by an outside service supplier;
* supply package adaptation, on the basis of information collected from the market, in order to bring what is being
supplied presently into line with customer preferences, and to meet existing competition; for instance through changes
in product design, rationalising production to reduce costs, or through improved quality assurance, with the adaptation
completed;
*  active selling of the improved supply package.
Plans for Service Development Grants. In the particular case of grants for service development, the scheme will support
the development of new services, or the enhancement of existing services, aimed at assisting client firms in areas relevant to
export diversification and/or development. In this context, a plan should, in addition to the general requirements,
demonstrate that the services to be developed are likely to be saleable, and are likely to assist the target group of firms in
diversifying and/or developing their export business.
Pre-investment Studies. In the particular case of support for pre-investment studies, the requirement that the plan be
realistic will mean that, additionally, the applicant should demonstrate a capacity to raise the level of funding likely to be
required So, for instance, a promoter of a multi-million investment proposal, having equity capital resources available of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 42
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
only a few thousand would not be supported with a grant. In addition, pre-investment studies should incorporate a
section on environmental management, which would include review of national environmental requirements.
Plans supported Sequentially. Once support to a particular plan has been completed, and the plan is in the process of
being satisfactorily implemented by the firm concemed, then the firm would be free to submit a further follow-on plan for
support
7he Eligible Service/Travel Usage
Any usage of an extemal service which is charged for, or of travel, and which can reasonably be expected to contribute to
the achievement of an eligible export diversification/development plan, itself will constitute an eligible service/travel usage.
The following examples of service/travel usage that would normally be eligible under this definition are provided purely for
guidance. The list is not intended to be exhaustive. In-factory consultancy and short-term contract management services,
say up to six months in duration per introduced expert, would normally be eligible, but new pernanent staff appointments
would not.7 The length oftime for which temporary contract management could be supported would depend on a case being
made as to how long the required transfer of know-how, skills, etc. could reasonably be expected to take.
Consultancy or short-term contract management assistance directed specifically at improving labor productivity or yields on
raw materials, in order to enter new markets, would normally be eligible. Assistance in improving in-house capabilities in
design-related techniques such as pattern making, prototyping, grading, sizing, counter-sampling, etc. would normally be
eligible. Buying in a set of designs for one season only, with no longer-term enhancements aimed for, would normally not.
The expenses of exposure tours for factory personnel, to view alternative techniques and technologies in factories elsewhere
would normally be eligible, as would market exploration tours by marketing personnel, to explore new export market oppor-
tunities.
Defined Deliverables from an EligibleActivity
For each eligible service/travel usage for which grant support is being sought, the firm concerned will be expected to define
at least one "deliverable," the sight of which will verify that the activity had indeed taken place, as described. Depending on
the circumstance, a defined deliverable might consist, for instance, of a detailed engineering drawing; or a prototype,
incorporating quality improvements; a training certificate; a set of standard times developed for a production process,
against which productivity could be assessed; or an externally-comrnissioned market report. Normally, a deliverable would
consist of an output produced for good reasons anyhow, rather than an output produced solely for verification purposes.
The MGF Management Unit will have the right to view/study deliverables, but not to take them offthe client firm's
premises, nor to take copies or photographs.
Eligible Expenditures
Service/Travel Usage Costs. Expenditures on service fees, and expenditures on travel and incidental expenses charged at
cost, incurred wholly and exclusively on an eligible service/travel usage will be eligible for 50% grant support. Salaries for
staff employed by the supported firmn are not eligible, nor are recurrent costs such as royalty fees. No expenditures on
hardware can be supported, even in cases where equipment or instrumentation purchases constitute an significant
expenditure within a firm-level plan s
Limits per Recipient. No single recipient firm or group of firms may receive total service user grants in excess of a
cumulative limit of US$200,000. No single recipient firm or group of firms may receive total service development grants
in excess of a cumulative limit of US$50,000. In this context, firms are considered to be a group if their annual accounts
are reported together in one document, or if they are under the effective management control of a single board or entity. In
the case of associations the service development grant would have a cumulative level of $200,000.
7 Note that training for new staff appointments would be eligible
8 Note that subsidies on hardware purchases tend to be more sensitive to countervailing action by trading partners than is cost-sharing on
business development services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 43
Country: Bangladesh                                                          Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Exclusion. Expenditures on services provided by the firm undertaking the management contract to run the MGF, or by
associated firns, will not be eligible for support
Supplier Selection. The choice of service supplier will be made by the recipient firm, and will not be restricted to suppliers
on any central register. However, the MGF Manager will seek to satisfy himself/herself as to the supplier's competence for
the task intended, and that there is a genuine arms-length conmmercial relationship between supplier and user.
Over-charging and Collusion. The MGF Manager will also seek to satisfy himself/herself that fee rates being charged for
services are broadly in line with market realities, particularly in a case where the service supplier is not previously known to
him In exceptional cases, where he has real grounds for suspecting over-charging or collusion, grant support can be made
conditional on an acceptable process of competitive bidding between at least three technically qualified contenders.
The Recipient's Contribution
Applications for grant support are accepted on the explicit understanding that the recipient entity will match the 50% grant
contribution from the scheme with an equal contribution from its own resources. This is to ensure a strong sense of
ownership and a strong motivation to obtain value for money from the activity supported. remains with the recipient, in its
own terms.
Group Activities. Group service-using activities covering more than one firm, for instance those sponsored by trade
associations or suppliers of services, will be supported. But applications will be evaluated separately for each individual
firm. In particular, in order to ensure commitment by each supported firm, grant support will have to be matched by direct
50% contributions by each participatingfirm to the costs of providing group-based services to that particular firm. Thus,
service user grants could not be provided to match contributions from association funds or public funds. Note that this
restriction does not apply to service development grants, where contributions by association funds would be fully
acceptable.
Avoiding Double Subsidies. Similarly, usage of non-commercial service suppliers will be on the basis that double
subsidising of activities is to be avoided. In such cases, grants will be calculated so that the total subsidy element from all
sources external to the firm does not exceed 50% of the total direct costs to the firm of all eligible expenditures.
Avoiding Conflict of Interest. Any beneficiary of matching or non matching grant funding cannot be involved in
MGF supervision or otherwise associated with it. Firms associated with the management contractor may not be
beneficiaries, and Board members will declare and excuse themselves from cases involving industries in which they
have any interest.
Promotion Arran2ements
The MGF Management Unit will be expected to undertake specific initial activities aimed at promoting the scheme to the
widest possible audience of potential users. Initial promotion might take the form, for instance, of workshops or seminars to
be held in significant regional centres of business activity. In addition, successful experiences resulting from the scheme and
other lessons learned will be widely disseminated for the benefit of other potential exporters or grant recipients (taking care
to avoid release of proprietary or other confidential information).
Processing the Individual Grant
Letter ofAgreement
On receiving approval for grant support, each recipient will be required to sign a letter of agreement, specifying the details
of the actual support agreed. This letter will also bind the recipient to present defined deliverables for viewing by the
management unit. The letter of agreement will also specify the individual nominated by the recipient firm to be its
representative in dealings with the MGF.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 44
Country: Bangladesh                                                        Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Outputs and Confidentiality. The letter of agreem-enit will confirn that all outputs from supported activities wiUl remain the
exclusive property of the supported firm, with commercial confidentiality fully preserved. Contractor staff will be bound
under their contract to respect the commercial confidentiality of all deliverables, outputs, and infonnation supplied during
contact with the firm.
Supporting Documentation. The letter of agreement will bind the recipient to back up all claims for the reimbursement of
half of eligible expenditures with receipted invoices/vouchers for all fees and incidental expenses covered, so as to enable the
management unit to verify that the expenditures had indeed been made. This documentation, plus the agreed deliverables,
must be retained for possible inspection by auditors or WVorld Bank supervision missions for three years after each receipt of
a grant [or longer, if required by local law].
Impact Data. The letter of agreement will bind the recipient to provide continuing sales revenue data, sufficient to track the
direct impact of the grant support on the enhanced competitiveness of the firm, and thus to monitor the achievement by the
scheme of its impact target. The letter will also commit the recipient to co-operate fully with the annual audits and the
sample surveys to be conducted later to evaluate irnpact. Each recipient will also be obliged to complete, after each
supported activity, a brief one-page "feedback form," indicating the level of client satisfaction achieved by the service
supplier.
Formal Requirements. The letter of agreement will refer to the formal requirements stated in the IDA/GOB Development
Credit Agreement for the Project, which are notified to applicants in the application form, viz.
. . Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower, acting tlhrough the MGF Board, shall obtain, by Letter of
Agreement with the Beneficiary, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association, and the Borrower,
including to the extent that it shall be appropriate the right to: (a) require the Beneficiary to carry out the
proposal or program to be financed out of proceeds of the Service User / Service Development Matching Grant
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial employment and
environmental standards and to maintain adequate records; (b) require that: (i) any services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be obtained at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such services to be used
exclusively in the carrying ouit of the proposal or program; (c) obtain all stuch information as the Association or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the proposal or program; and (d)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower.
Approval ofApplications
Delegated Approval. Applications will be prepared jointly bv would-be recipient firms and the MGF Management Unit
staff The MGF Board has the discretion to subdelegate its grant approval powers to the MGF Manager, either in entirety,
or up to an approval limit that the Board itself specifies
Board Approval. For categories of grant approval not subdelegated to the MGF Manager, the Manager will recommend
applications for the Board's approval. However, if the Board refuses to approve an application so recommended, or fails to
approve such an application within four calendar weeks from the recommendation, the application will be automatically
referred by the Manager to the Project Steering Committee (adv'ised by the PCU) and reported immediately to IDA. The
Steering Commnittee would have the authority to refer the application back to the MGF Board, with its comments, for
reconsideration and review by the Board. If, after that, the Steering Committee and Board could not still agree about a
recommended application, the matter would need to be resolved by discussion between IDA, the Steering Committee, the
MGF Board and the MGF Manager In the event thnat the dispute could not be resolved, the application would be deemed
not approved.
Approval by Circulation. If no board meeting can be arranged sufficiently quickly, the MGF Manager will have the
altemative available of arranging a board approval "by circulation. " Copies of the application or applications pending will



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 45
Country: Bangladesh                                                      Project Title: Export Diversification Project
be circulated to board members, who would have the opportunity to object to an application within seven days. If no
objections by board members are received by the MGF Manager within seven days, the application would be deemed to
have been approved.
Potential Board Member Conflict of Interest. If an application is being considered for a firm which competes with a finn
in which a particular board member has an iilterest, then that board member is to exclude himselflherself from the
discussions covering that particular application.
Information provided to the MGF Board. Commercially confidential information provided by an applicant to the MGF
Management Unit would be removed from an application ahead of it being referred for board consideration. For instance,
names of foreign sales contacts would be removed, as would be specific characteristics of products under development but
not yet made public.
Rejections. Since virtually no technical evaluation is required in the approval process, and since all eligibility criteria are
designed to involve straightforward yes-or-no decisions, outright rejections are expected to be rare. However, any rejections
are to be delivered in person to the firm concemed by the MGF Manager, to give an opportunity for discussion of possible
next steps. The intention is that every applicant will be given the maximumn opportunity and assistance required so as to
enable it to benefit from the scheme.
Revoking an Approval. The board may only revoke an approval already granted by the manager in the event that false or
misleading information is determined to have been provided within an application. Any such case is to be reported in detail
to IDA within one week of the board decision.
Quarterly Review Meeting. Each calendar quarter, after receipt from the MGF Manager of the progress report, the Board
will review progress. It will also review approvals and rejections, and could then, if it wished, give guidance to the MGF
Manager on future approvals and application policies Any such guidance should be reported immediately to IDA.
Grant Payment
Basis of Payment. Payment of grants will be on a reimbursement basis, conditional on sight of defined deliverables, and of
receipted invoices/vouchers for eligible expenditures, certified by the appointed representative of the firn. Expenses for
travel outside the finn's country of residence will be calculated on the basis of published Economy/Coach class airfares, plus
per-diem allowances for accommodation and subsistence which are at a rate no more than 10% over the published UNDP
per-diem rates for the destinations concemed.
Authorization. Payments of grants out of the Special Account set up for the Export Diversification Project will require,
first, the written authorization of the MGF Manager on behalf of the Board, and second, the signing of cheques by the PD
for Coordination or his alternate and the Deputy PDC or his altemate.
Administration
Monitorng Scheme & Contractor Performance
Contractor Performance. As part of the contract, the management contractor will be committed to develop, and obtain
board approval of, an annual work plan for each twelve-month period of operation of the contract. This will specify in
detail the activities to be carried out in order to launch and promote the scheme, and to manage it under the terms of this
SPOP. The work plan will specify the man-day inputs for each activity. Progress made in achieving this plan, plus
modifications proposed to the plan, would be reported to the board for each operational calendar quarter, to be submitted
within 10 days of the end of the quarter The report should include data on. each application received, value plus one
paragraph describing the activity; each applications approved, value plus one paragraph on expected impact; each
applications rejected, one paragraph describing reasons, breakdown of approvals by subsector, size of firm, and type
of grant; number of site visits; number and value of disbursements and time elapsed after authorization; and project
implementation issues. The value of grants approved resulting from the contractor's promotional and appraisal work



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 46
Country: Bangladesh                                                      Project Title: Export Diversification Project
is expected to reach US$4 million each year The contractor is also expected to gather and compile information which
would assist impact evaluation.
Impact Evaluation. A comprehensive evaluation of the scheme's impact based in part on a sample survey of recipient
firms, will be conducted between the end of the third year and the Project closing date (June 2002), enabling the results to be
incorporated into the Implementation Completion Report for the Project. The survey and evaluation will be contracted out
by the Board to an independent specialist, whose selection is to be approved in advance by IDA. The survey will include
comprehensive site visits to a minimum of 10% of grant recipients and a control group of similar firms not assisted by
the facility, and will be supplemented by data on all recipients retained by the management contractor. The evaluation
will seek not only to evaluate direct incremental impact, but also to gather information on indirect impact. The detailed
performance indicators will be agreed beforehand with IDA but could include:
*  Increased Exports: (i) the achievement of an average annual export perfornance equivalent to a multiple of the
cost of the grants paid to the firms, and (ii) a larger increase in exports among firms in the program as compared
to the control group.
*  Competitiveness Improvements: the survey will compare competitiveness indicators of assisted firms with those
of the control group, including production costs, workforce skill levels, other productivity indicators, and market
share. Other indicators will include adoption of new management processes such as export programming, new
distribution channels, launch of new products, and use of consultants for problem solving.
*  Quality Improvements: the survey will compare indicators of quality improvement among assisted firms and the
control group such as quality certifications, value increases, and rejection rate decreases.
*  Behavioral Features: customer orientation, institutionalization of quality assurance and continuing product develop-
ment, employee motivation, company image. It will also specifically seek to evaluate the willingness of firms to
continue using specialist services but at full market prices.
Interim Impact Survey. Although the final impact survey will allow all stakeholders to evaluate properly the eventual
impact of the scheme, these stakeholders will also require an interim evaluation somewhat earlier. A project-wide mid-term
review is planned for about October 2000. To assist that mid-term review, a smaller representative interim sample survey
will be conducted, based on site visits accounting for about 10% of grant funds disbursed by that time. The indicators
proposed above will be used to the extent feasible at this stage, although the analysis will necessarily focus more on the
effectiveness of the management arrangements, to confirm that grant recipients have presented adequate business
plans, and that grant funds are being used for the purposes intended, and to receive feedback from the firms
concerning the operation of the scheme. This survey and analysis also will be conducted by an independent specialist
contracted by the Board with IDA approval, who will collaborate with the IDA team responsible for the review.
Accounts andAudit Procedures
Auditing. The scheme will require an annual financial audit by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with certified
copies of audited accounts to be subnitted to the Bank within six months of each fiscal year. The MGF Board will
therefore propose, ahead of scheme start-up, these audit details, and submit them to IDA for approval
Management Accounts and Records. Administration of the scheme by the MGF Manager will require detailed intemal
record keeping for management purposes. Formats will be set up in agreement with the Financial Management Specialist in
the Project Coordination Unit, and record keeping arrangements will need to be approved as acceptable to the appointed
auditors.
Amendments to this Manual
This manual may be modified as required, so as to achieve the objectives of the scheme, but only by recommendation of the
MGF Board and the Manager The Project Steering Committee would review such recommendations and resolve any
differences between the Board and the Manager before seeking fornal endorsement by IDA. The manual should seek to
preserve a balance between achieving the objectives of the scheme and minimizing leakage on the one hand, and preserving
simplicity, automaticity and transparency in the approvals and supervision process on the other



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 47
Country: Bangladesh                                                              Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 2B
Estimated Demand for the
Matching Grant Facility
Characteristics and evolution of the exp-ort sector
The industrial sector's ability to maximize export potential has been hampered by the dominance of public services with
inherent inefficiencies, lack of awareness by exporters of international market needs as to the type and quality of products,
dependency on large intermediaries, and the absence of skills Attempts by the government to promote exports have largely
been through centralized agencies, which are seen by exporters to be bureaucratic in nature and not responsive to individual
firms' specific needs in terms of identifying markets and market demand, or in locating and reaching buyers abroad. In spite
of these constraints there has been substantial growth in some sectors resulting from opportunities created by quotas and trade
preferences (RMG, knitwear, textiles), or by exploiting natural resources (frozen seafood).
Table 3(a) illustrates the evolution of export values from 1985 to 1998 with the main export subsectors being ready made
garments, knitwear, frozen shrimp, and leather These subsectors accounted for 80% of total exports in 1997/98 with a
significant contribution to foreign exchange generation. However, the GOB considers that active promotion is required for
the development of other emerging subsectors such as fresh vegetables, cut flowers, furniture as well as for increasing the
value added of the traditional exporters (see description under sample subsectors described below). Project background
materials and working papers contain more complete descriptions of the subsectors reviewed.
Cross-cutting needs identified by exporters and estimate of demand
A variety of complementary techniques were used to identify obstacles to expont diversification in order to estimate the likely
uptake of the MGF by individual firms These included an Exporters Need Survey, numerous meetings with subsector
associations, chambers, individual exporting firms, service providers, as well as a review of over 50 letters expressing interest
in the MGF. Subsectors reviewed included ready           fr     ceyieti                            has baen
made garments and knitwear, leather, frozen              hne to ai r- -     e   ny.
shrimp, fu.rniture, cut flowers, horticultural, tea, silk  '         ~a,m   upminteurdcnefdno
products, jewelry, and pharmaceuticals. In
subsectors where extensive orientation and        som  $60  iin. The r ess h              eM       he
consultation was provided through workshops, field          Gament Mes                                n
visits and discussions, the quality and number of  epesdadirl  Sloe oised~&fct hiieis~'.
expressions of interest in the MGF by individual         i4tr      t      n a '           r$l
firms was higher e g frozen shrimp. In addition to    tdetfa  t           s                  e .1r   f
interest in the MGF by individual firms, industry  C            a    c   a
subsector associations representing exporters also inJotntod      eicirthoadeplydbHI  sdhaoe
indicated interest in thle MGF.2.Idihimecq,ppsoErpwebned49egfihro
This annex provides a summary for illustrative    thbnii
purposes of some of the subsectors examined and an
estimate of the demand for a Matching Grant Fund   a        bhidit a -.-            n
of US$12 million. Grants have been capped at 10%  mrvmtanacistdyidiradgynnetJbsfy
per sector to balance out the possibility the few  should tke   t bsur                           '
established sectors, where demand is likely to be  shdtngthe,. .-   y nlftcatio;i........eq.d.'edk .
high (RMG, frozen shrimp) use up grants at the
expense of a large number of small emerging sectors (see Table at the end of the Annex for an Estimate of Matching Grant
demand). The following is a summary of export diversification assistance needs identified by subsectors:
*   assistance in assessing the potential of new product markets, and developing networks of potential buyers,
*   improved market intelligence on individual market requirements, market fashions, including value added products, and
the changing needs of buyers. Dependence on brokers or agents as the main source of information on buyer requirements
should be reduced, and improved information flows to enable producers to match customer requirements in a timely
fashion should be developed,
*   improved awareness of emerging technologies and technology transfer, and their impact on competitor products and the
global market for specific product groups,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 48
Country: Bangladesh                                                               Project Title: Export Diversification Project
*  the need for producing higher quality products and establishing quality systems in export firms,
*  training and management development to enhance productivity and company competitiveness
*  quality assurance and compliance with health and safety requirements of importing nations (which can embrace such
issues as child labor, hygiene and quarantine requirements in specific sectors, GSP and Certificates of Origin etc).
Local service provider needs
Efforts to promote exports in Bangladesh has been concentrated in providing support services through public organizations
such as the Export Promotion Bureau, Jute Mills Corporation, Handloom Board, Small Industries Corporation etc. Firms and
industry sectors express a lack of faith in these centralized public service
support organizations to meet existing individual firm and sector needs and  :How ca' a Serce         - s-
to understand their role towards industry as a client group It is now   expauidssei'ces for eport dY Vetsfa ti.i?--
becoming better understood that no single central source can expect to meet   oNsplig finn  plu intiw procthat f a
the various specialist needs of a diverse group of exporters. Thie range and    ser ...es .as   . .. ....needr.  t . ed ...of..ts
variety of expertise needed to build international competitiveness requires    experts abroad/or ISO 901-  taining T-h
access by exporters to an active market in export support services, both  woMid give theserviceprovier the cailiy t
foreign and local. There is a small but growing group of private sector  pro videlal consulg service to export
local export service providers emerging in Bangladesh. The MGF can      implementifg f ISQ 9q9000pro
assist local service providers encouraging them to speed up the
development of locally-based exporter support services. Examples of services under the project that can help local service
providers include trips to develop joint ventures with foreign specialist firms, bringing in short-term foreign specialist to help
build new services; and training of staff abroad.
Sample of Subsectors with Issues and Needs Assessment
Shrimp
Shrimp exports from have been growing rapidly in recent years and now represent over 5% of Bangladesh imports. Since
1995 Bangladesh is the seventh largest producer with 4.21% of the total world production. Bangladesh is primarily using
block freezing for shrimp although a few processing plants are developing the capacity to produce the higher quality
Individual Quick Frozen (IQF) shrimp, or other prepared shrimp products. However, their packaging quality, primarily wax
coated cardboard box, does not reflect the "luxury" nature of the product. The robust nature of demand for shrimp and
scarcity of shrimp in the international market enabled Bangladesh to continue to export to Canada, United States and Japan
despite the temporary export ban to the EU maintaining export values while production volume decreased. Key needs are:
* Needfor Continued Quality Control. The industry continues to be vulnerable to export bans and concerns over
microbiological hazards and has started to address this issue through implementation of a system called Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Point (HACCP) to control microbiological hazards. Firms recognize the crucial nature of monitoring
hazards and many have either just installed or are in the process of installing their own testing laboratory9. As of the end
of last year, out of a total of 122 firms, 45 to 50 have already been upgraded with government assistance in access to
loans. Firms are in the process of preparing their own operational manuals and preparing their plants to implement the
HACCP system.
Total Production and Export Volume of Shrimps per Year'0
Exor Valu         :':Production Volum           percenage increaseo
(USS million)                                      decrease.over las r
1-99l - -T992                 1 19,70927
9i-l993    i1--ISS 47                     -          --i  25042                     - 119 2
- 1l993  4  -    :-1 99-  :197673 -:287-0 --4
,--,,:--,,. .. - ,. ...   -::-. ....:
-i  1994- 1 995                   260701                      34-23.                        19,1
195-9                    :27051 1326
1 996 - 1 997 -- 2~~~~~~~~~~792117           -            -26,000 - ---2l
9 Approximate costs to a firm of installing their own laboratory is estimated at US$50,000
10 Source Bangladesh Frozen Foods Exporters Association and Export Promotion Bureau (EPB)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 49
Country: Bangladesh                                                                Project Title: Export Diversification Project
*  Need to Increase Production to Meet         fow can a'srinp produer use the MGFto increase v'    dded?
Demand. To meet the growing export           .n... e..ro sh''mpproduce. Ia p s to p    c a vu  a
demand shrimp production needs to be        produc but rates his   as deficient in l     training, make
increased Limitations to increasing shrimp    accessibiity ad knwle  of   tomer preferences in terms opd
production are the shortage of fry, an acute  andpackaging. Thsf   proposes t' developa      ed peeled
shortage of shrimps/prawns fish feed, the   individually quick frozen prdu  i t      s f       U       o
threat of viral disease from fry imports, lack    an  panese market. The firm  hasdtined  that they need tofind a.
of hatcheries, depletion of some species, and    constant in the taret market to advise on consumer
potential conflicts between land users e.g.  examine simi           produced b  omto  i  hl    o
fishermen and farmers.                      Masa. Their plan also"Includes the-need fanexpIert t help them
Demandfor MGF: With assistance from            set up a process'linefothis'new product, a  t     e firms plat
representatives of the Bangladesh Frozen Foods   labor on how t   . prepare, pro. ess,   d b handle the pd     Th
Exporters Association (BFEEA) individual firni    ....  esimte t .t.. deeopetcot. frtis.itaie.obeU$30-
and association a potential demand for Matching   .he .m   exec  this an other rel     e        deic
Grant Funding of US$5 million has been          ntavstreu'nanncesinxptsfo US0mllntof
identified11. These initiatives include        US$60 million overive years.
*  development of an industry-wide training
program for each critical checkpoint including workshops,
*   development of an integrated growing, feeding, harvesting, collection, financing, and processing system within a total
quality management approach,
*  increasing the size of production througlh hatcheries involving private sector initiatives supported with public sector
services with technical support and training, research and development on value added products, and
*  intensified marketing efforts such as data collection on buyer needs and preferences, information on competition,
consumer information programs, and marketing arrangements in buyer markets.
Readymade Garment (RMG) and Knihvear
These two subsectors provides 65% of total export earning and have been enjoying rapid growth over the past decade. Four
geographical markets represented by USA Germany, UK and France account for over 70% of RMG and knitwear exports.
The sector is still at a relatively early stage of development with buying agents supplying imported material and most of the
work done by contractors for a fee on a cut, make and trim ("CMT") basis. Industry projections are for continued growth of
20% per year over the next decade. This will be achieved in part by diversification into new markets, such as Japan, which
has grown by some 63% to $9.36 million from 1995/96 to 1996/97. Whilst these projections are encouraging for Bangladesh,
there is also some risk of a reversal if the industry cannot comply with quota/certification requirements relating to
Generalised Scheme of Preference (GSP) and Certificates of Origin. In addition, phasing out of the Multi-Fibre Agreement
(MFA) requires Bangladesh to prepare for the transition to a new competitive environment.
Key Export Statistics'2
Year              U~~~~~~S.$000      %-Chag                  U S$O                 % Chag
.8/6          1=1,476 -                                   .            n/
1986/87                  298,6                  127  . I..             nia
1987/88-                 43,9445                                       n/a
:::::    -1988/89-::i-  i      E   471,085:  :::                            n/::::::M::::-      :::7  --  :a::    :::
41990/91                  7315,61                                     131199                    84 21
1991/'92                  ,6:,0045               4                   118 569:
1992/93      ,240,481               1~        ~         ~~~~~~7 204,370
~1993/9411               1,291,64.6 !    ~~~~4                       264,13                    29-
1994/95           1,835,087              425                  393,261`:~......
:995/96                  1,948,81                                    598,319:. :52:::.
1996/97H:~:::::                                   .
Due to the constraint of 10% of total grant for each industry subsector, demand may exceed available grant funding
'2 Data source: EPB.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 50
Country: Bangladesh                                                               Project Title: Export Diversification Project
*  Need for Quality Improvement and Design Inprovemtent
High reject rates and the perception of overseas buyers of    A garment in  t.f rp      to  eaice truhhe
low Bangladesh quality is forcing the industry through its    M, t, 7ry.to shift Its marketing f     b g houses
Association, BGMEA to come to grips with quality issues    .xclusiiely t . e.xprtingdirec tly to whole sles,. a s part of
this tratgy te fi npln is palanning triPs t o ovrseas markt
and the need for more awareness by its members of the end   to:undertake' market resear, c to develop contactswith 
buyer's needs and preferences. The industry is also aware  wholeleses i'n--the. end buyeretauntry. in addition, the finn
of the need to compete with India, Philippines and more   ea      ..lizesthat'it will need .to introduce' techniques 'and methds to
recently, fofmer Eastern European countries. In response    inrpove,,qual4't'-a ,.prod  ctily in ode toacco plish the
and preparation for tougher competition, BGMEA is         til erthey phitire consultants to advise them on ways they
preparing a program to introduce a Fashion Institute with    cantdeceease their eject rate and inmprove the eieficn  of their
technical assistance from Fashion Institutes in the USA,  orkers and rnachiner''
India, and Britain.
*  Human Resource Issues. Skills training, particularly targeted at production supervision, sewing technology and sewing
machine maintenance and repairs has been identified by most firms visited. Firms have been reluctant to train in isolation
since they are subject to losing trained workers to other firms. Firms participating collectively in training, and access to
some funding assistance for training through the MGF will help to offset some of this reluctance
* Marketing, Market Development. Firms have identified direct exploration of markets as an important activity as a way
develop a direct relationship with end buyers in order to be able to start shifting away from their current dependency on
buying houses.
Demandfor MGF: The BGMEA has been involved in determining the likely MGF uptake by its 2,000 members of the MGF.
To support this effort they have retained a group of six persons to work with firms to explain the MGF program. Based on
members' expressions of interst, BGMEA estimates that approximately 10% of its members or 200 firms will request
assistance through the MGF. To date 17 letters of interest have been received from individual firms, each with an average
estimated grant requirement ranging between $40,000 -$ 60,000 This initial interest in the MGF by the RMG and Knitwear
subsectors suggests that demand is likely to be robust resulting in a potential total demand exceeding available allocated
funding to subsectors under the MGF.
Cut Flowers
This is a small emerging export sector in its infancy stage. The common flower for export is the tuberose with the main
international competition coming from Iran and Kenya. Opportunities exist for increasing exports of cut flowers, particularly
to Middle East Markets with direct air connections.
Subsector Needs. Apart for the need for adequate air cargo
shipment facilities, firms have identified, among others, the  A cflower grower plans to get-1110the apart market After
following needs: access to technology to improve the product   gconductinitial market research this`fr-  has, establised that
it would be easier 10 enhvter th e expot mret by shippin to
and its shelf life; training in improved production methods and   IAOman, atr,Bahra  ndp K ai  ethan  t
quality control; access to laboratory testing services; assistance  r .opean.mk .The f as p red an
with marketing, and assistance in funding of sample shipments  d.velbpmentprakram to enter dIe Middle East market involvin 
to prospective buyers.                                      visits.to.bem ad.e.to.flwer growing and expoting conrls..
Demandfor MGF  Due to the small size of this subsector it is   such. as. ,nya, Holland to exami'e: (a)what time and method '-:
estimated there will be a modest initial demand. However, a  exporters abroad adop'tto hanest,freh flowers? (,)whatis'-'
breakthrough by one firms provide a good demonstration      theirflowerstr,Vigg system 4iert hfaresting? .()c wutis  :
project. The following is an example from a letter of interest    involved todevelop tikjie cedture laboratoryfirpr-pagation? '''
received from a cut flower export firm
Furniture
There are 3,952 producers of furniture in Bangladesh ranging from cottage industry to full scale production employing
approximately 400,000 persons Demand in the export market is for higlh quality products and the main international
competition is from India The Association of Furniture Producers feels that they have a competitive edge over India due to
the higher quality of Bangladesh production. In order to improve export performance in the international market more-
research must be done on new technology and production teclniques as well as improving technical expertise and providing
training in all phases of current furniture technology.. The Association estimates that the current capacity for exports is
approximately $350,000 per month through the 7 to 8 firms that they have identified as being export ready. It expects to
improve on this



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                        Page 51
Country: Bangladesh                                                                                                                      Project Title: Export Diversification Project
export performance making its industry members aware of the    r   af                                                     iile   eiebilo
provided by international experts.                                                                  :xporh.;t,ng.- ona'  o,:de''' ''s',,   t 'I' "'     ,   ',, ha' gi,e:    on ,, xp,, or' '''
Subsector Needs. The Furniture Association has identified the    rdyfinnme -'fdec to 'xn 'es 'xor ee's ThI -                                                      *'
following needs among its members to be relevant to export                                           ha id-ife threeaes   sjpr buhngai
diversification:                                                                                    i% MarketPromotion tl,h.rou,glip,,ar                  i     in fairs suh as -the --
*   research on upgrading systems of manufacturing (wood                                           AM~a4k ',,,Safr T~vr                 inNew Y@ 0.PTr&nI......... e,  -0'   ' "'  0 Use
processing, preparation, seasoning, cutting, joining,    - ~     hiri ng 0~tsfrEom.abroad ahin wd  ....e'aso ~ .n.i. de~4'n
sanding,  finishing, etc.);                                                                 fiani:t,u, ogte hntiqes a i n. .. d . a..  ag... '.. .  .                              '
*   access to laminate technology (which involves particle                                         D iv'plonrnent by sending desgners and polish workerx to
*    bonding techniques,
S   information on glues and other products); and
Subse  : Number of.  .. Value                          ...sn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uvernmunu  EstimatedUse3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
folwn neelpeds aoftanng itmmbrs tohe  idsrelean tomua exotrann Acffort.                                                                                                              .....
researironEugradinsysfosrofamark u                                                                          ofo Man i a   (
.  W:   ;  f  f :tlL    ; tt ::                                                                           Gr:nis :                     fims               *vala
2.  Knt1--.it.---w--.t-.- .... S: b tor                                                          891,000              -                     000.                   . 1s                   0
4.:rr: Le:::ther-- 150  :-:-:: l 3..:::- . .:.       .                     15.......
5 t  - Tetile                                                              142X         E .     --- .                -:                                                                  300'i '''''''i'' ':''i'ir's:':'  -998' :     
6.  Sp. Textile,:Houschold Lii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ejtdA#                                      n
g   ~~~~~~~~~~~rnIture'                                                                                     98~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'6   p.b Oh. 2i  to0
Subseetor ao4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oei6qn!:t:
boa, ,iS,. r d s,                                                                                                                                                     .........  ..........................  .#    E ,   ,. E i R.E.       iiCi i  
N  otes.            tehnqus
Proecinonsmareiase on   10esan monthefigurescfrom   and
2 Eimes a  biae oftrani etters of e inerest ryeeive  from indi idu  -inn    es-ti e p i     by   bect-r A
Basd o cnstait o 1%frachsusetiaeor,ti Mamutcshould Grnot exceedzUSioinio  perSsector
i                                              ,   ig   i  E   .7 ..... E Es, .... .. ii iigi g i pi igi ...... 5 i i. i ... i g ... . .   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  ,. . . . . . . . . .
':::iEEE  gEr S  '   'Sn'':.    '::.i.iE ..:.:':''..' E...:.'...,: ,,,# :''':::................':  .........  ............: .:... -..:,'  :..  .........  ... ......:.::...   .... :: 
BothE-: Knitwear and RG  li addition to these exporters, there are about 600 -MGs that are subcontractors
Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters A..ssociation(BGM                                    ) esti,,mates demand-  at 200   rms at .''...$60,000.per..e'porter
33:-:   Wf-F   o   Fo  d!hH X - - -: -yj W; X g: 9ff -:- i . ....   ....                ...               .........  ..
Out of. 3,952 furiture producers in the count, onl  8 are ready fore. .....  .s at t.hs t.ime
iE, #E    iL    Ti.E  .,.   E    i   ,   i i L . E . iE! iS E F . E iE Ti i F. i y iCE E ., f.. .........    .. ..     ...   .....  
ThiiHsn amount coul becrviewd bT                   e oen  uptake  over Ith  prjc ter  and- reloae  to othe acivt e g sevc provider
cludi ng footwear, baipen, date proc-essing,i- ceramic tableware, ie                           aii   tableware  tea, non traditional jute products, silk.atr
:::f:i:-. n   --  - --7r  raul   E ~~~~~~: :::L: ...... Li-:::: :.L :-L :::                           ........:i:E::E :. F.nE                i i- a- . -                     AM:: O-   O-.
pritin, hortf.----   ---icultue , softwa,,,reZ
Sow ce:y,l l. -i:::Export::-iii'''' Pr-.':omot,---ion Bure ... Sui: bsj':j.E iector  jjj a-soc :ation., a.- in u a l. -    f irmaj.: '-' j:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  . ..  ..   .... jE  .                        jj                                    j..   j  jijjjj.......j....    I.............j   .. E ... . .
I" R p 4,   j.:    jEE 4 j  ......................  jElEj j  jjE0j   f  j    j   j         L~~~~~~~9.  R  ad0:   I.................
JL           .... ... ........ ...                                                                      ..........:                      :.....::.........................  -  --  R-    ii  ,!  !,fE  ......................... 
4-~ ~~~~~~~~~EE Athj &EE::::i:.'':-::i:~:'i:;:~:::L.'':':"':- ::                                                            . ...... i.i -i
..........    .                                                                                                            ...........~~~~~E      Ei::         '''  :i:        ij.-      :         2 i..............  , ,
:::::''i':':':.:.-.:ER:::::iE-...::  ::'i'..:..:::E:.:.':.':-  :ESiEEES': ' .:::::-  '.''''''' .E i::"' '''' '.  '"   '!E'':' i: ''#.   ''''' iEE. - ''::'''l  ': '"i'''"  iNi 'i'.........."......i:."."......."........'..
' i''  i'   :i''':''''':.  ':    ''''  ',:-:    : . ....'  .' . ...    ..5    ......  ......    .... '.':.... ..- .''::'':  ...E:':  ....j':'''': ...'.': S   ..::    ::j'''  ''..  .............  ....   ....  ........
C                                                ,  f  ,,l. ,,40   ,.  ,40 Bj., ,!S, i .0:.,.! jji,jER, ,,.........................- gj.2 , . j,. j. j,, ' -. ..........  ...........--  ...'-:''...
%v  e                   IlE    iii      -i:  .1 : i        :  1    ii   ..i:                           9                                                             . ..... ...  ......
:                             :.i ::  - -:: :i. .   . ::: i.i-i:-::-- ::. EL -iEEER i: - :. i  :E--i.....2 : i --F :: : E...:::::..::.-.--- ....     ..-:. i
thr-                                                                                       41_816                                                              0::          :-:4
Notes:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......
I Projections are based on 10 month figures from  EPB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                                                                0
2 Estimates are based on :L::: letter                                                                                                                                      .. interest reevd.rmidiiul.in.ndetmae.rvie.y.uscorAscitos
3 Based on constraint of 10% for each subsector, this amount should not exceed US lmillioniper secto
4 Both Knitwear and RMG  b addition to these exporters, there are about 600 RMGs that are subcontractors~
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... Banlaes Gamn .aufcuesan......Ascaio.BMA   stuae  enada  00f sa U    6,0  prepre
over~~~~~~~........                    ... ......ears.           ...              .....
6 There are 33 firms but only four to five are active.
7 Out of 3,952 furniture producers in the country, only 8 are ready for exports at this time~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
8 This amount could be rviewed based on uptake oer the project term and eallocated to other actiity e g service provide
9 kcui-0       fotwar  balpn                                                                                                                                        ...... .rcsig    ea i   alw r,m lm etbe ae   e,nntaiinljt    rdcs   ikm tra    n
printing, horticulture, software~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......     .. . ..
Sout ce: Export Promotion Bureau, Subsector associatiotls and individual firms~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... ......



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 52
Country: Bangladesh                                                                    Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 2C
Experience with Matching Grants and Other
Technical and Marketing Support Systems
1. Matching Grants
The Matching Grant Facility for Bangladesh forms part of a series of such initiatives both under Bank projects and sponsored
by other donors or governments. Matching grants are used in industrialized market economies to replace previous public
support services for trade and industry, e.g the UK's Department of Trade and Industry, Austrade in Australia, and the State
of Maryland. Matching Grant schemes have been or are being successfully implemented through Bank projects in:
~~~~~~~~~...  ............                                   ........- . ... ......... ....... . ..- . ... .... ...  ..=. ........ .. . . ....  ..... - . . . . .    -.-.--. _
--:  . i.,. --- .. .......
Cuntry::: Type of  roject                           .                 ank Contrhulion   -    - : Date Aproved
... . .... .. ... .... .. . .....~~~~~~~~~...  ........  ..    ......  .....  ....  ..  ... ..    .... .     .... .  ...  ..  ....... ......... ..
JA                        Ind  strialEpO: :r S$20 millio                                 :
India:                               - -txr velonent                 US$2   miidn                                  . !  89.
::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        ...  .. ..         ...... .  ..r..   .   .    .   ...   -..    ..---. Y . .......
-  -Indonesia               port Development                        US$79 millia ..86
-enya                     EXporDelopmen-                             US$3 *6 llo
.    :.   -::   -:  .   ::::  - -: -- - -~~~~~~~~~~~I .  . .    . ::::: ..-:::-.-.- :::!.:::
::CoIombia   :::         Epor Deelopment    ::-US$36,6 lilltit    :.
..... .... .. . ... .... .... ...                                       . . . .   :: .....  .::-- ... .. -::
-Jam-ai-ca :    :        :: Private Investment                       U:   --wS$4.4- illito                 94
--::::----::!--:. : :! : : : ::::-:. -   . : : : !:::::!.: : ---: .   :...  ...   ....: ::. --:::: :::..!:!  .  ......
.Mauritijis                TA cxptitivn~                               US-7-ilin
.argentina  E: -              por D     Iel   ent                     U :::: -S$2  miio::n.
. -Ugan da               Privat~Sectbr                               US$3 nul                           1999
South Africa.      Ind rusraCopetitiven'ess                    $4,5nln9
': : ::: ~~~~~..... ''''   .... . . :  :'....                                       .   '::-.-' '. ': ! : .-.    -    .........    ..-. ..:!!:.. ! :. :!:
Completed Projects. Only the projects for India (2), Indonesia and Kenya have been evaluated since the remaining projects
are under implementation.
i India's Industrial and EXpOrt Project contained two consultancy funds - the Export Marketing Fund and the
Productivity Fund totaling US$20 million. The project was completed in 1992 having financed 359 grants totaling
US$ 16 million. The project was considered successful: the recipients of the export marketing fund and the productivity
fund reported on average an annual export growth of 68 percent and 48 percent respectively, far exceeding the national
average.
UgIndia's Export Development Project (1989) included four consultancy contracts totaling US$20 million. The project
was completed in 1995 benefiting 450 firms. The project was also considered successful: between 1992-95 the ratio of
exports to sales of the assisted companies increased from 8 8% to 11 4%. For the same period the growth of exports for
these comnpanies was 26% per annum compared to a 15% annual growth for all Indian exports.
C pThe Export Development Project for Indonesia provided US$5.1 million for an export support fund. At project
completion in 1991, the fund had assisted 397 export companies and 20 export support organizations. One major
problem was the complicated approval process resulting in a disbursement of only 68 percent of the comuitted funds by
project completion. However from the point of view of its impact the project was successful: A sample of recipient
companies reported that the value of their exports had increased 17 times the total cost of the assistance.
The Knya Export Development Project (1992 provided US$1.4 million in matching grants as a pilot project, which
were fully disbursed. Although disbursements, which were administered by the government were slow at the beginning
these became satisfactory as implementation proceeded. The achievements were highly satisfactory with 175 grant-aided
projects approved compared to a target of 105. The ratio of additional export revenues to grants was 15:1 substantially
over the target ratio specified during design of 2:1
Ongoing Projects. An ongoing evaluation of projects under implementation in Africa shows the following preliminary
results:
prSouth of the Sahara (Senegal, Uganda, Madagascar) Main problems with these projects are: (i) the matching grants
are open not only to exporters and non-exporters but also to a wide variety of groups such as farmers and women, which



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 53
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
without eligibility criteria results in a large number of non-performing projects; and (ii) supervisory groups of the
matching grant administration consist mainly of the users who use their influence to determine who are the beneficiaries.
Mauritius. Preliminary results are good. The project focussed mainly on transfer of technology to exporters. One of the
inain success areas has been in moving exporters from basic cotton knitwear to synthetics.
Lessons from the ongoing evaluation are:
(i) the need to have focussed project objectives. A main objective suggested is the transfer of technology due to its
characteristic as a public good (demonstration effect, movement of workers from leading technology companies to
followers, cost reductions which benefit consuming industries, absence of learning meclhanisms in particularly in Africa
which receives the visit of few buyers /suppliers),
(ii) the beneficiary firm must have the planning, technical and financial capability to use the grant,
(iii) firms that do not meet these conditions could receive help under a different grant scheme focusing on how to prepare
business plans and make financial projections,
(iv) the matching grant manager should be proactive in providing support and advice to those subsectors which are crucial for
the development/strengthening of other subsectors (e.g. textile industry as a provider of inputs to RMG industry), and
(v) the projects should make allowance for evaluations on the impact of the matching grants independent from the grant
managers.
2. Alternative Systems
A World Bank study of Technical and Marketing Support Systems for Successful Small and Medium-Size Enterprises in Four
Countries (Indonesia, Japan, Korea and Colombia) reached the following conclusions:
"First, the leading source of support comes from private channels - - from buyers and traders, from similar firms,
suppliers and subcontracting principals, andfrom the determined efforts of SMEs themselves. It follows that the first
order of business for SME support policy is to ensure that the private marketplace can work, that the liberal rules
govern the internationalflow of technical and marketing resources.
"Second, the benefits of private support mechanisms are not available equally to all, but vary with an SME's
,endowments': whether SMEs are embedded in pre-existing private inter-firm or community-based networks; whether
firms are pioneers in a new activity or one of many participants in an already mature subsector,; whether the country
in which they are active has a high profile in the export marketplace. Collective marketing and technological
supports turn out to be used and valued disproportionately by less well-endowed - - though subsequently successful -
- firms
"Third, the record of delivery of collective technical and miarketing support is a chequered one, but some promising new
approaches appear to be coming to the fore. The most promising interventions are those with a "light touch":
their delivery mechanisms generally are decentralized; and their goals are to support, rather than supplant, the
private marketplace - - to co-finance SME efforts to tap the marketplace for neiv marketing and technical
resources, to make available additional sources of technical information, and to facilitate communication between
firms, including between SMEs and international buyers.
"In all, the empirical results suggests that, consistent with the emphasis of the previous decade, the overall business and
incentive environment is the most important determinant of the effectiveness of marketing and technological support
systems for SMEs. However, the results also caution against complacenc, against the presuimption that a liberalized
private marketplace will be sufficient to secure industrial development
-- Brian Levy et al , World Bank Policy Research Working Paper # 1400, December 1994



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 54
Country: Bangladesh                                                          Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 2D
Reforming, Modemizing and Institutionalizing New Procedures
and Organizational AlTangements for Customs Administration
Government capacity and commitment to reform
Desirable indicators              Recent orplanned actions by GOB consistent with the indicators
Formal GOB Cabinet endorsement of a  Jan. 1999 letter to IDA on behalf of the Finance Minister explicitly affirming the
comprehensive program to modernize   logical links among growth and poverty reduction, exports and the removal of
all wings of revenue administration  constraints thereon, efficiency improvement and reduction of rent-seeking, and
speedy tax system modernization to achieve those goals;
Minister 's and NBR Chairman 's intention to obtain Cabinet endorsement of the
reform process, based on a Cabinet paper prepared by Jan. 1999.
Design and organization of such a   Ministerial approval of a concept document for a nine-year, all-wing reform
program                             program - the Revenue Administration Modernization Programme (RAMP) -
prepared by NBR staff and ETAC automation advisor, April-September 1998;
Approval by GOB in July 1998 of a TAPP for a first phase RAMP
implementation project for the Customs wing (yielding the US$10 million CMI
subproject to be supported by IDA Credit for BDXDP);
Request to UK DFID for, and agreement on the design of, a $1.4 million TA
project to modernize VAT administration, to be implemented during 1999-2002;
Identification of a first phase implementation project for other wings, especially
Direct tax and NBR Center by a joint NBR/HIID team in a 10-week IDA/PHRD-
funded mission during July-September 1998;
Formal request in November 1998 for follow-up TA (now scheduled to be
provided in February 1999) to help prepare a specific project to help implement
the RAMP including organizational, administrative, policy and jurisdictional
reform, infrastructural and logistical institutional development, .
Clear understanding of the need to  Two recent NBR initiatives to support export industries: (i) withdrawal of VAT
remove anti-export bias in tax      from the use of two telephone sets and one fax machine used by each export firm;
administration as well as in tax policy   (ii) allowing banks to make refunds for all items (previously limited to 35 items)
covered by "flat rate" under the duty drawback framework.
Clear understanding that automation    Agreement on this key principle between NBR and IDA staff during project
must assist but certainly cannot ensure   preparation, endorsed by NBR Chairman and IDA Country Director, December
RAMP objectives w/out complemuentary  1998.
process, organization & culture change
Government leadership of campaign to  Informal consensus among business and political leaders of the necessity for I
build and sustain broad public      inevitably of radical tax system reform in the interests of both public revenue and
consensus to support difficult future    the business environment;
decisions in the reform process     More specific aspects of consensus-building to be developed and implemented
through the CM] subproject and other RAMP support activities.
Commitment and capability of senior    Appointment of an experienced and respected manager from outside the revenue
NBR management to direct the reform   service as NBR Chairman in July 1998;
Appointment of a senior change manager with deep internal experience as
Member for Administration and Reform in August 1998.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 55
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Appointment of internationally      Issue in October 1998 of an invitation for internationally competitive bids,
experienced experts/advisors to assist   evaluation of the bids, and contracting of consulting team in February 1999 to
implementation of reform            help implement the CM1 subproject during 1999-2002,
Agreement in 1998 with the World Customs Organization for reform in
Bangladesh to be supported under a standard WCO modernization program
during 1999-2002 (as part of BDXDP/CM1)
Sufficient internal staff support to form   Recruitmnent during the past decade of new cadre of professional graduates now
at least a core of human resource   serving as Assistant Commissioners with potential to respond to professional
capacity to accept and implement    incentives rather than illicit prebends;
reform                              WCO/IDA workshop in July 1998 to initiate sensitization process for middle-
level staff helped convince WCO that Bangladesh is ready for reform; a larger
more formal workshop is planned by NBR/WCO for April 1999 (it would have
been held in November 1998 if BDXDP/CM1 had been funded by then).
Transparency and simplification of  Establislhment and annual publication since 1993 of an Operative Tariff Schedule
tariff schedules to reduce opportunity   to ensure transparency;
for discretion in assessment        Reduction of high customs duty rates and merging of some of the multiple rate
codes during the tariff reforms of 1992-96.
More recent merging of multiple rates initiated by the new NBR Chairman (e.g.
razor blades and MS plate) and his and the Minister of Finance 's intent to make
more comprehensive progress in this area.
Preparatory steps and basic familiarity  Installation in 1992 of computerized processing of Customs data and
with computerized approaches to     development of Customs Information System to enable collection analysis and
Customs data management             other MIS (under ETAC, 1992-98);
Upgrading of computerized processing of Customs data to ASYCUDA (with TA
from UNDP/UNCTAD 1994-96);
Consultancy TA support during 1998 to prepare for upgrading to ASYCUDA++.
Establishment of a unique taxpayer  Establishment of income tax TIN database and processing system, contracting of
identification number (TIN) system to   a firm to issue plastic TIN cards, and requirement for citing income tax TIN in a
underpin enforcement of tax laws by  wide range of non-tax transactions (during 1996-98);
properly interfacing between Customs,   Conversion of VAT BIN into VIS for compatibility with TIN in 1997/98;
VAT, and Income Tax wings
NBR 's intent to have: (i) the ledger card system (a prerequisite for unique TIN)
piloted operationally in one circle under each VAT commissioner by June 1999,
and (ii) the unique TlNfully operational by the end of FY2000, with compliance
facilitated by the installation ofA SYCUDA + +.
Streamlining and/or tightening of   Operation of a "voluntary" preshipment inspection (PSI) scheme since 1993, with
Customs procedures at ports to reduce   green channel treatmnent for certificated import shipments. In the absence of
disputed or dishonest inspection,   formal contracts between GOB and the PSI Firms issuing certificates, the scheme
valuation and duty assessments,     was bedevilled by an allegedly large number of under-valuations, leading to the
without the present recourse to "tariff   narrowing of its scope to exclude all consumption goods and some inputs.
values" - with the twin goals of    Assurances from the NBR Chairman to the Country Director in December 1998
facilitating trade and stemnming    that he is initiating several measures to reduce direct contact between tax officials
revenue loss or diversion thTough rent-  and payers and the rent-seeking it permits
seeking
Measures to be introduced by FY2000 include: (i) random post-event audits of a
proportion of returns; (ii) manidatory PSI with proper accountability, facilitated
by improved automation and computer networking; (ii) reduced abuse of the
SBW scheme by leakage into the domestic market, also through better
inform ationflows; (ih) public awareness-building to help address the issue of
lack of integrity among many importers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 56
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Establishment of a large taxpayer unit  Inclusion of an LTU in the policy matrix under discussion in preparation for an
(LTU) to focus resources on accounts    ESAF, and NBR management's agreement with IMF to receive TA to help it
with most revenue potental           address organizational, legal and other obstacles to its establishiment (IMFFiscal
Affairs mission now scheduledfor February 1999).
Improved relations between tax       Measures already introduced include: (i) the payment of interest on refunds; (ii)
officials and taxpayers, and improved    speedy processing and 24-hour service for export clearances.
service delivery                     Assurances from the NBR Chairman to the Country Director in December 1998
that the following measures will be introduced shortly, in addition to those noted
above: (i) rapid processing and payment of refunds due to taxpayers; (ii)
prohibition on back-dating of demand notices, to be facilitated by automation;
(iii) self-assessment by taxpayers, to be facilitated by the use ofpost-event audit;
(iv) sharp reduction in the number of signatures required to clear shipments
through Customs; (v) arrangements for private yard stacking of export
containers, facilitatingfurther speed in processing.
Plan to convert NBR into a Revenue   Endorsement of the RA approach by senior NBR management.. This is not yet
Authority (RA) outside the Civil     accepted formally by GOB, but the notion is included in the policy matrix under
Service, or other means to overcome  discussion in preparation for an ESAF.
the fundamental issue of incentives for   Meanwhile the new Chairman has reactivated the existing provision for reward
honest behavior by tax and Customs   money up to 30% of additional revenue generated by vigilance (one official
staff                               recently received a US$4000 payment).
Comments on the Institutional Context pre-Proect
(1) Extracts from preparation mission Customs administration expert's "general observations on the current situation
in Bangladesh" 13:
Port Congestion  Current customs cargo clearance and examination procedures in Bangladeshi limit the scope for
trade facilitation initiatives and sustained export growth. Customs business practices, attitudes, and corporate objectives
remain firmly fixed on the use of historical transaction-based policies and procedures which revolve around detailed
completion and extensive re-verification of customs related documentation prior to the release of cargoes.
11     A review of port congestion and port operations at Chittagong port noted that approximately 65% of cargo on hand
was export related. The port was very congested and vessels were waiting in the stream for available berths. There was little
container stacking in the terminal due to the need to provide ease of access for physical examination of consignment contents
by customs. As a consequence the container terminal was overflowing and additional containers were being examined and
stored in other areas of the port usually allocated for break bulk cargoes The current customs physical cargo examination
policy requires that 5% - 10% of each and every consignment be examined for classification, valuation, quantity / anti
smuggling purposes. In effect this single policy results in every consignment, whether imports or exports, being stopped for
somne form of physical examination. It has become the prime reason for current port congestion problems, adds significant
delays in getting goods to market, and accounts for at least one additional day's storage for all export related consignments
11     Such an intensive random  examination policy is not only a significant impediment to international trade
development in Bangladesh but has also created an environment of complacency in the implementation of customs
examination procedures. It is counter productive as an anti-smuggling device, and encourages the spread of corrupt practices
as traders and clearing agents negotiate faster access to individual assignments. This random examination policy has firmly
established existing customs procedures as an effective non-tariff trade barrier in Bangladesh and should be discontinued
forthwith in relation to all export consignments and import consignments destined for Special Bonded Warehouses. A more
targeted, risk management approach also needs to be adopted for other imported cargoes once staff are better equipped to
undertake more effective cargo examinations for concealed items
13 Anthony Mort, Special Bonded Warehouses and Customs Process Reform, Working Paper # 1, Novel.bcr )5, 1997.



Project Appraisal Documont                                                                             Page 57
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
".....I It was noticed that there was a significant lack of modern investigative and examination tools available to staff
involved in physical cargo examinations. As a consequence many examinations are cursory or documentary in nature, and
achieve no useful purpose at this stage. If customs are to adopt a more effective approach to the physical examination of
consignments, as suggested elsewhere in this report, it is essential that they be better equipped to do the job. This means
effective retraining of examination teams, operation of a better equipped customs laboratory capable of producing speedy and
accurate classification of referred products, and access to the necessary tools of trade.
"...... Greater emphasis needs to be placed on developing an effective and efficient customs risk management regime to
target specific consignments, facilitate legitimate trade, and strengthen fonral revenue collection. Such risk management
regimes rely on the development and effective operation of a comprehensive national customs intelligence analysis capability
that can detect and investigate organized fraud and serious smuggling threats. While it is understood that a custom
intelligence operation does exist in Bangladesh lack of time during this mission prevented a closer examination of the status
of this side of the Bangladesh customs operation.
11     While the majority of the port congestion problems at Chittagong port are as a result of inappropriate customs
examination procedures, it must not be assumed that customs are the only agency in need of improvement. Considerable time
was spent with staff of the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA), and it was clearly evident that current attitudes, policies, and
procedures within this organization also played a major role in maintaining existing port inefficiencies. For example it is
understood that there is currently a cargo handling restriction applied per consignment of 3 tons despite the fact that the
lifting capacity within the port is far in excess of this. Consequently many split consignments exist and the benefits of
containerization are under utilized Furthermore it is also understood that CPA do not undertake Bay Plan examination prior
to the arrival of the vessel. As a consequence unloading planning takes place on the dock with resultant inevitable delays
Existing administrative and operational procedures within CPA are antiquated and in need of drastic simplification,
inodernization and automation. In many respects there appears to be a lack of commercial aggressiveness to manage and
operate the port as a key strategic asset of thle country, and to introduce productivity improvement initiatives aimed at
improving service delivery and attracting customers. This issue should be addressed as a matter of priority by Government.
"1     Simplification and harmonisation of documentation and procedures  An examination of existing customs goods
declaration processing procedures in Dhaka and Chittagong clearly showed that a successful implementation of the
ASYCUDA system had been achieved within the confines of the current operation. However a number of issues were
identified which currently contribute to slowing down the document processing line, adds confusion or unnecessary cost to the
operation, and negatively impacts on the security and integrity of the current customs declaration processing system. The
biggest revenue risk at the moment is the practice of Clearing & Forwarding Agents intermingling with customs staff while
trying to get appraisements and then acting as couriers for their own goods declarations (and associated supporting
documentation) as they move the declarations through the various stages of the examination process. This practice is open to
corruption, collusion, and theft. As a consequence it should be replaced as soon as possible with an environment whereby
Clearing & Forwarding Agents surrender their documents at the point of lodgment into the customs clearance system, and
they do not get access to them again until the end of the process when clearance is given to remove the goods from customs
control.
"1     It was noticed that a variety of different documentation formats exist for different goods declarations, and in some
cases even for the same declaration. Multiple formats of varying shapes and sizes add to production and storage costs and also
indirectly slow down the processing line as staff adjust to information being in different locations on different forms. This
area should be rationalized through the use of the common UN/ECE Layout Key format international trade documentation
(i.e. the same format as is used for ASYCUIDA input). This same documentation format should be applied for ALL import,
export, warehousing, and transit operations. By all means retain the existing color coded concept for such documentation, but
simplify and standardize the process by using the same forn design. There is an urgent need to significantly reduce the
number of signatures required to process goods declarations, with a target of no more than two signatures per document. This
should be achieved as part of the process of introducing a single common declaration format.
11     During discussions with shippers it was noticed that Bangladesh has its own unique design of forms that are used for
reporting the arrival of ships. These forms are not aligned with the International Maritime Organization's published list of
standardized facilitation forms (IMO FAL Forms I - 6) As a consequence shippers must re-format this international
information for specific use in Bangladeslh at significant cost and time wastage. The IMO FAL Forms I - 6 have been in
existence for quite a number of years now and their use by Customs Administrations hias been fully endorsed by the World
Customs Organization. Consequently at this point there appears to be no logical reason why such internationally accepted
formats should not also be used in Bangladesh Consequently it is suggested that NBR simplify and standardize the design of
all shipping documentation by authorizing the use of the IMO FAL I - 6 forms for the general declaration, cargo manifest,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 58
Country: Bangladesh                                                             Project Title: Export Diversification Project
crew list, crews effects list, ships stores etc. Similar internationally accepted format also exist for air transportation and NBR
should be encouraged to prescribe the use of such formats as accepted by the IMO, IATA & ICAO.
11     Transparency and integrity  Initial observations highlighted a general lack of transparency, integrity and confidence
in the equitable administration of customs legislation, policies, and procedures in Bangladesh. There is no short term quick
solution to rectify this perception, however it is felt tlat adoption of a system based approach to targeted risk management as
outlined in this paper will go some way towards rebuilding confidence in the tax administration capability and capacity in the
country. To assist in this process there is also a need to introduce transparency into the interpretation of Bangladesh Customs
legislation, both domestically and internationally, through publishing all related legal and operational material in both
Bengal and English languages.
"1     It is also thought prudent to develop, publish, maintain, and make available a single publication containing all non-
sensitive operational procedures, instructions, and guidelines associated with the clearance of international consignments.
This should include both the customs role and expectation and obligations falling on the traders. This will clearly spell out to
staff and the trade exactly what each others obligations are, and will also be able to act as good reference material for staff
and the public who are undergoing training in customs related procedures.
"1     It was noticed that multiple reference documents are used by customs officers in determining an effective rate of
tariff to apply to any given shipment. This results in a significant waste of time, and makes it difficult for others to easily
determine effective tariff information. It is recommended therefore that a single Customs Tariff be produced, maintained, and
published containing all applicable tariff items, tariff rates, concessionary rates, and guidelines for use
"1     Customs integrity  The current focus on detailed individual transaction based processes and procedures in all areas
of tax administration in Bangladesh has created an environment that is supportive of widespread institutionalized corruption
throughi out most levels of affected organizations including regulatory agencies and the banking sector. Corruption and
unauthorized interference in the smooth administration of regular business practices appears to have grown to such an extent
that its continued existence appears to have been accepted by many as a necessary fact of life. As a consequence cargo
clearance and tax administration processes retain significant needs for extensive human intervention with resultant greater
opportunities for corruption throughout the entire international trade cycle. Advice was received that the level of corruption in
the current system equates to approximately 5% of Letter of Credit values
The only way to address corruption on such a large scale is to simplify the processes as much as possible, reduce
areas where human intervention is required, move away from a transaction based focus in policy and procedural development,
develop appropriate self compliance incentives, and strengthen enabling legislation to balance the facilitation initiatives that
are introduced. A major priority for NBR should now be to re-establish confidence of the government and the trade
community in its tax administration capabilities This can only be achieved througlh enforcing high standards of integrity,
accountability, and responsibility throughout all NBR departments while protecting operational areas from interference in the
equitable administration of legal obligations.
Special Bonded Warehouse scheme  During the course of this mission the team visited a number of organization
which operated special bonded warehouse, and witnessed manufacturing operations ranging from sophisticated high quality
establishments to those that were less than desirable The team spent many hours with industry associations and government
agencies as we sought to understand the operational constraints on the current manufacturing sector. As a result of this
analysis it was concluded that the current historical, transaction based co-efficient focus towards bonded manufacturing
warehouse operations is impeding export diversification and development. It is therefore obvious that an alternative approach
needed to be adopted. Consequently it was suggested that a system based, risk management approach to auditing taxpayer
records at periodic intervals would be more appropriate for Bangladesh. This suggested approach was discussed at length
with industry, trade associations, and NBR personnel and their respective input was taken into account in the design of a
more stream lined approach to the operation of special bonded warehouse activities, that aims to reduce tax leakage, make
taxpayers mnore accountable, reduce the cost to trade, support export diversification and growth, while strengthening the duty
suspense system and introducing confidence into the tax administration system.............
11     Duty Drawback scheme  The historical focussing on transaction based procedural issues and multi-verification of
information is also prevalent throughout the entire duty suspense, duty drawback, and special bonded warehouse schemes
operated by Bangladesh Customs As a consequence significant delays and costs are being experienced in the processing of
duty drawbacks with a resultant negative impact on taxpayers' cash flow.
"1     Bangladesh allows drawback of customs duties on imported inputs that are used in the manufacture of goods for
export. This is achieved through a complex mechanism to establish exact duty input and output coefficients on manufactured
quantity produced. As a result of the delays experienced in calculating new drawback coefficients, coupled with the in built



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                                            Page 59
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
delays in the drawback process itself, a fiscally neutral environment does not exist for exporters. This is because while the
exporter has to pay duties and taxes on inputs at the time of import the drawback refunds are made only after the export
proceeds have been realized and evidence of export tallies have been produced using the cargo out turn report on the Shipping
Bill. As such the exporter incurs financial costs on monies borrowed to sustain a workable cash flow.
11     As a result of this complex and disjointed approach to drawback policy it is easily open to abuse, is not transparent or
equitable to the taxpayer and remains inefficient. A key element for reform in this area is the need to change the point of
payment for drawback of duties away from the time that export earnings are repatriated, to the time that the goods are
"deemed" to have been exported by the acceptance of a Bill of Export by customs. Consequently the current constraints
imnposed on the drawback process by the exchange control regulations should be lifted. The requirement for the cargo out
turn to be sighted on the Shipping Bill as part of the refund process should be dispensed with as soon as possible as it removes
yet a further perceived justification for the current physical examination policy relating to export related cargoes.
(2)    Extract fromn World Customs Organization report on participation in the July 1998 appraisal miSSion:14
11     It was quite evident from speaking to the officers that the Bangladeshi Customs Administration was in need of
comiiprehensive reforms. The procedures and systems are complicated - a good example being the manual Customs entry form
which requires anything up to 40 signatures before goods can be released The competency and integrity of many officers,
particularly Inspectors (field officers), was very low One of the reasons given for this state of affairs was that recruitment at
Inspector levels had not been undertaken for a very long time and vacancies at those levels were being filled by promoting
staff ivho were formally helpers and general hands. This appears to have resulted in the lowering of efficiency levels as well
as aggravating integrity problems.
On the other hand, the senior officers interviewed were found to be acutely aware of the problems being faced by
their administration and how the problems impact the economy and image of the countiy. All the officers had had the
opportunity of visiting other Customs administrations and were concerned about the state of their own Customs systems. Most
lainented that, so far, there has not been any significant breakthrough in finding solutions to their'problems.
11     The conditions of service of Customs officers are not commensurate with their responsibilities. Officers interviewed
feel that as long as officers are not paid a living wage it would be difficult to curb corruption. It was interesting to note that
the majority of officers interviewed spoke openly and passionately against corniption. All of them had no doubt that, given
the right conditions of service and remuneration, most officers had enough self respect to refrain from corrupt activities. All
the officers who talked freely about the integrity issues warned that the issue must be viewed not only as a Customs problem
but also as one that is a feature of the business environment in Bangladesh This widespread tendency to evade payment of
taxes and providing false particulars is a major reason for inefficient practices such as the many checks and balances needed
before goods are cleared and released.
The problems faced by Bangladeshi Customs are numerous and complex. The situation is worsened by the fact that
soi-mie officers, particularly (it appears) those at Inspector levels, Clearing and Forwarding Agents and possibly other
unscrupulous importers are likely to sabotage any attempts to change the status quo from which they are openly benefiting.
On the other hand it was pleasing to note that senior officers such as Member (Customs), Mr. K. G. Sarwar, and Member
(Reform and Audit). Mr. S.I. Khan, were of the opinion that Customs reform was long overdue. Both officers believed that
the proposed Diagnostic Workshop under the CRM would provide a golden opportunity for officers to air their long held
views on how Bangladeshi Customs can develop in order to meet the clhallenges of the next century. They were also both of
the opinion that the CRM programme should be commenced sooner rather than later, a view that was strongly echoed by the
twfo consultants working on the computerization project underway (Messrs. A. R. Khan and Faiz Khan). The clear consensus
was that the diagnostic process should precede all further actions on existing projects so that any new actions plans can be
developed on the basis of the findings of the study.
At this stage it is possible to conclude that, at the Customs management level, the commitment to proceed with the
reform process has been adequately demonstrated. It has not, however, been easy in the time available, to determine with the
same degree of certainty whether, in view of the adverse cultural, economic, and possibly political environment, the Customs
administration is able to effectively carry through the substantial reforms necessary. It is not clear, for instance, what the
severity and effect of the anticipated anti-reform reactions will be. Despite these possible setbacks, however, it is considered
that the CRM program should be comimenced immediately. All action plans and recommendations for reforms should take
14 I. V. Mazarodze, Report on the World Customs Organization fWCO) Participation in the Wforld Bank AMission to
Bangladesh (1-14 July, 1998, Dhaka and Chittagong).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 60
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
into account the peculiarities of the situation in Bangladesh and should include specific measures to counter these setbacks.
The Diagnostic Study Workshop will be an excellent opportunity to devise strategies to achieve this."
Impact and Process Indicators Proposed for the CMI Subproiect
(1) Impact evaluations
The most important part of the evaluation of the Customs Modernization Phase I subproject's effectiveness will be
assessments against indicators of the impact of subproject activities and accompanying reforms on service deliverv. Specific
benchmarks and expectations for FY2001 and 2002 in this regard will be developed by the Consultants and agreed with
NBRIIDA at Project mid-term review. They are expected to measure changes, compared with FY1999, in such variables as:
* Cost of complying with Customs procedures in terms of facilitation payments, sales lost or costs increased by clearance
delays, etc.;
* Cost-effectiveness of services provided, elapsed time for various key procedures, and number of disputes;
* Ratio of legal to illegal imports (methodology to be assisted by the PATC and PCU advisory teams);
* Client satisfaction, especially on the part of exporters.
These impacts are anticipated to result from both Component (1) on streamlining procedures under present structural
arrangements and Component (5) on piloting mofe fundamental departures from transactions-based assessment such as the
use of post-event audit and risk management techniques. It is recognized, of course, that much greater progress is likely to
occur beyond the Project's three-year horizon, when the piloted process changes may be implemented more extensively to
apply to all imports.
More specific performance indicators are set, as already stated in Annex 1, for the more narrowly defined
Components (2) on ASYCUDA and other MIS, (3) on Special Bonded Warehousing, and (4) on Duty Drawback, viz.:
* Y2k problems averted and ASYCUDA++ operational by December 2000;
* Satisfactory performance of other management information systems;
* New SBW monitoring system operational by June 2000;
* No SBW applicant too hard to monitor by June 2001;
* DD flat rates for 50% of major domestic inputs by June 2000;
* Cash Compensation scheme abolished (as all indirect export being well served by DEDO) by June 2001.
(2) Progress expectations for Component (5)
Component (5) activities will include the identification and diagnosis of organizational structures, work processes,
simplification, re-engineering work flow, and the design of other reforms that will be piloted within the project, so there is
time also to implement some of them more fully within the project horizon. The objectives will be accomplished through
cooperation among the Consultants, NBR management and staff, WCO and other advisors Subject to refinement by NBR
and the Consultants on the latters' appointment, specific activities and perfornance indicators could include:
Output/Activity                                 Key Performance Indicators
1. Develop a written four year     a. Develop an approach for creating the plan
strategic plan for the modernization,   b. Coordinate the drafting
institutional development and re-  c. Begin the development of the four year strategic plan
engineering of work processes and  d. Produce the plan, get agreement and disseminate the strategic plan document
structure This will include the    to all parties by June, 1999
development of a vision for the 21st    e Communicate the plan to all managers, supervisors and employees tlhrough
century and a new mission statement.  workshops and complete by December, 1999
2. Establish a high level group made   a Select the individuals, provide a letter of appointment and establish time
up of individuals from Minister of  frame for meetings by April 1999
Finance Office, NBR and field      b. Select memnbers of a working group form each of the major operational areas
operations to oversee and manage the
modernization effort



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 61
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diverslfication Project
Output/Activity                                  Key Perfonnance Indicators
3. Establish a schedule to review   a. Begin the process of requesting data and material from various countries and
other countries' experiences and    other organizations by August, 1999
lessons learned when reforming and    b. Identify and schedule any necessary visitations to other countries or
modernizing the tax system through    organizations during the second quarter of fiscal 2000
written information and visits
4. Begin during the first quarter of    a. Begin to identify the work processes in need of re-engineering
fiscal 2000 the process of          b. Begin the documentation of the new the work flows
documenting current work processes   c. Begin to identify activities and task that will be included in the pilot projects
and the identification of work flows
that are to be re-engineered.
5. Ensure that all organizational   a. This is an on going task and is the responsibility of the high level group that
changes and/or proposals are fully  is overseeing the modernization program
coordinated in order to maximize
efficiency and effectiveness.
6. Begin a comprehensive review of   a The review will begin in July of 1999 and include such things as:
the NBR and Customs organization    i. a review of the authority and responsibilities of each member of the NBR
structure, including the relationship    ii detenrine the impact of PSI on staffing and organizational structure
between the different units of the  iii. the combining of organizational units (such as circles) to maximize efficiency
organization. This review will also  and consistency and provide service to the taxpayers
include exploring the possibility of    iv. detennining the best organizational location for domestic VAT operations
establishing a semi-autonomous      v. organizing around functions rather than by type of tax
Revenue Authority.                  vi. eliminating duplications in headquarters by combining like activities/tasks
vii. review of any laws that relate to the organizational structure and their impact
on any clhanges
7. Build a consensus for the reform    a. Beginning immediately top government officials should begin discussion
and modernization program           within the government and in the public, outlining thie reasons why changes
must be made and the vision of the tax system in Bangladesh for the 2lt century.
b The officials should continue to make public the specific plans to change and
when the changes are to take place while continuing to get feedback from
interested person in public sector
c Develop a quarterly newsletter format to explain the reviews, changes, new
procedures, etc. to all employees. The first newsletter should be sent June 1999
8. Complete the documentation of all  a. This should be completed no later than December, 1999
the work processes.
9. Review all forms that are required   a. Determine the necessity for having more than one or two signatures required
to be completed for the import and  to move goods through the port
export of goods, including the      b. Deternine the necessity of have each paper form now and then the
necessity of signatures by custolns  requirements for forms once ASYCUTDA or similar system is in full operation
officials.                         c. Consider which forms and what type will be required on imports under PSI
d. Complete the review and revise all forms by December, 1999
10. Agree on the new organizational   a. Determine any legislative clhanges required to implement the new structure
structure for the NBR at headquarters  and begin the process to get the law changed
and the all field operations.       b. Establish a date for implementation of the new structure
c. These actions slhould be accomplished by January 2000
11. Determine the feasibility of   a This decision should be made by April, 2000
establishing a semi-autonomous      b. Develop an action plan to implement the Revenue Authority
Revenue Authority.                  c. The implementation date of the Revenue Authority should be by June, 2001



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 62
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Output/Activity                                 Key Performance Indicators
12. Develop and write new          a. Complete by February, 2000
functional statements and position
descriptions for all major
organizational units and positions.
13. Make decisions on the processes   a. Identify the approved processes
to be re-engineered, including which   b. Write the new procedures for the revised work flow
ones will be included in a pilot   c. Begin developing the pilot plans by January, 2000
operation.
14. Identify changes, if any, that are   a. Complete this by January, 2000 so that they can be incorporated in the budget
required in the law in order to     speech
implement the new procedures
15. Begin the process of determining   a. Establish a manual selection process to be used initially with the intent of
the criteria and process for the    computerizing the process as quickly as possible
selection of a percent of returns,  b. Once the system is in place, publicize the process, not the details of how the
documents or transactions to be post   selection is made, to the public and taxpayers
audited.                            c. The process should be developed and implemented by December, 1999
16. Design and develop the pilot   a. Ensure that all procedures have been written
programs. Select the sites where the    b. Appoint one person in the field office to be responsible for the
programs will be tested and         implementation of the pilot
implemented.                        c. Determine the staffing requirements
d. Train all employees that will be involved in the pilot program
e. Determine the management information that must be maintained and
establish quality and quantity measurements to evaluate the programs
f. Periodic evaluation reports along with the management data should be made
through channels to the top level Modernization Board
g. As necessary, make modifications to the pilot programs
h. All pilot programs should be designed, developed and implemented by April,
2000
17. Identify any space that needs to    a. This should be on going throughout the entire process as decisions are made.
be renovated or modified because of    b. Design and layout space requirements
the new organizational structure, re-   c. Budget and contract for the constructions of any new or renovated space.
engineering or work flow changes.
18. Train all retained and recruited    a. Training will include the complete range such as: formal classroom to on-the-
employees                          job and include workshops, and study tours; the course content will include such
things as processing of documents, computer know-how, audit and collection
techniques, accounting, warehouse bonding, risk management, drawback
systems, integrity, managing programs, and managing people.
b. Perforn a needs assessment of all categories of employees and managers
c. Detennine what training can be done in country by local or contract persons.
d. Where necessary develop training programs and train the trainers; objective
will always be to train enough of the professional staff so they can train others
e. Establish a training plan with priorities on types of skills most needed
f. The training program will be on going, beginning in 1999 and continuing into
fiscal year 2002
19. Recruitment and retention of   a. Perfonn a study and a review of the recruitment and retention of professional
employees.                          and clerical employees
b. Determine what the pay level of employees should be as compared to the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 63
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Output/Activity                                 Key Performance Indicators
private sector and/or semi-autonomous government organizations
e. If the decision has been made to establish a Revenue Authority began the
process of developing a pay scheme
f. If the decision has been made not to establish a Revenue Authority, study
different alternatives to increase wages
g. Build a consensus with government and business community re the need to
increase remuneration for employees
20. Evaluate all pilot programs at the  a. Determine which programs should be implemented on a nationwide basis
end of a six months or no later than    b. Write, print and distribute operating procedures for the new programs to all
October, 2000                      employees who will be involved
c. Determine management infonnation and reporting requirements
d. Train all employees
e. These actions should be completed by January, 2001
21. Identify someone in the        a This person should be responsible for developing public information
headquarters office to be in charge of   programs to inform the public re the modernization and reform
public information                 b. Meetings should be held with interest parties from the private sector
c Inform the public of the changes that have been made and how they affect the
public, including public benefits
22. Perform a complete review of the   a Gather data on such timings as, number of returns filed by type of tax and
staffing requirements for the new  number of taxpayers served by each office; number of taxpayers who have
NBR and field offices.             stopped filling, number of shipments and type at the ports and airport, etc.
b. Determine workload requirements for employees
c. Establish staffing patterns for all offices/organizational units by Oct, 2000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 64
Country: Bangladesh                                                         Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ 'million)
Project Components and Subprojects                       Local          Foreign            Total
1. Product and market development support (PMDS)                  25.50             4.22           29.73
(a) Fundingfor Matching Grant Facility                           24.000                -          24.000
IDA and matching contributions (50+50%19)
(b) MGF Management Subproject                                      2.19             2.27            4.46
Consultancy fees, travel and subsistence                           0.45             3.05            3.49
Training                                                              -             0.11            0.11
Equipment, support staff, sundry expenditures                      0.20                -            0.20
GOB other and taxes                                                0.65                             0.65
Chairman's honorarium (not incl. in Consulting contract)           0.02                -            0.02
(c) New subprojects to be developed *                              0.40             0.87            1.27
2. Trade management capacity building (TMCB)                       6.30            10.19           16.49
(a) CAM-I Subproject                                               3.42             6.19            9.61
Consultancy fees, travel, subsistence; Impl. Staff                 1.32             2.83            4.15
Training                                                           0.10             0.75            0.86
Equipment, support staff, sundry expenditures                      0.68             2.57            3.25
GOB taxes, office rent                                             1.36                -            1.36
(b) PA TC Subproject**                                             1.87             2.17            4.03
Consultancy fees, travel, subsistence                              0.44             2.44            2.88
Training                                                           0.02             0.14            0.16
Equipment and sundry expenditures                                  0.25             0.01            0.26
GOB taxes                                                          0.74                -            0.74
(c) Project Coordination and Development Unit***                   1.06             1.78            2.84
Consultancy fees, travel, subsistence                              0.49             1.57            2.06
Training                                                              -             0.11            0.11
Equipment, support staff, sundry expenditures                      0.06             0.13            0.19
GOB staff, taxes                                                   0.49                -            0.49
3. Unallocated                                                     0.57             1.22            1.78
Total Project Cost                                                33.46            14.54           48.00
Notes  These costings reflect the Government 's Technical Assistance Project Proformas (TAPPs) with adjustments to reflect
the four contracts negotiated with consultants.
*  For new PMD subprojects: Local includes $0.5 million estimatefor GOB taxes not yet reflected in the TAPP; Foreign
will be adjusted to maintain IDA and Project totals when other subproject costings are finalized.
** PA TC and overall totals do not include consultancy and training under DFID 's parallel Trade Policy Capacity Building
Project, totaling $852,584: see Allocation of Credit proceeds (Annex 6.3).
*   PCUand overall totals include provisions of $20,000 local + $67,919 foreign for external audits and impact assessments.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 65
Country: Bangladesh                                                          Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 4
Financial Summary
(US$'million)
Implementation Period
1998/99    1999/00    2000/01       2001/02       Total
(lmnth)                            (1lmnths)
Product and market development support    1.11             11.61       7.71         9.29       29.73
(a) Funding for Matching Grant Facility for
exporting firms, groups of such firms,                 8.00         8.00        8.00        24.00
and service providers
(b) MGF Subproject: administration and
advisory services for operation of (a)     0.17        1.74         1.18        1.39        4.46
(c) Strengthening selected public and
public/private support service providers   0.05        0.50        0.33         0.40        1.27
(new subprojects to be developed)
Trade management capacity building             0.65        6.77        4.50         5.42        17.34
(a) CAM-I Subproject: phase 1 of Customs
administration modernization including     0.36        3.75        2.49         3.00        9.61
ASYCUDA++ or similar, better SBW
and drawback, rapid clearance, and
piloting post-audit and risk-management
(b) PA TCSubproject: strengtheningBTC
capacity for trade data and protection     0.18        1.91         1.27        1.52        4.88
policy analysis and in both the BTC and
MOC for international and regional trade
cooperation (BDXDP+UKTPCB)
(c) PCU.: project coordination and devel-
opment, incl. analysis of constraints and  0.11        1.11         0.74        0.89        2.84
institutions, new subproject formulation,
and facilitating/monitoring subprojects
Unallocated                                                            1.00         0.78        1.78
Total Project Costs (incl. DFID)               1.76        18.39       13.21       15.49        48.85
Financing sources:
IDA                                         1.20        12.50        8.30       10.00        32.00
Private sector matching                                  4.00        4.00        4.00        12.00
GOB (mainly provision for taxes)            0.46         1.54        0.56        0.18         4.00
Total Project Costs (excl. DFID)               1.66        18.04       12.86       15.46        48.00
DFID's parallel TPCB Project                0,10        0.35        0.35         0.03        0.85
Total costs including DFID                     1.76        18.39       13.21       15.49        48.85



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 66
Country: Bangladesh                                                    Project Titte: Export Diversification Project
Annex 6
Procurement, Financial Management
and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
Major procurement under the project will be consultants' services, including training, and procurement of computer
hardware and software. There are several consultants' service contracts under the project of which processing of
four [has been] completed before Board presentation. The remaining consultants' services will be identified and
processed during implementation phase of the project. While indicative requirement of computers have been made,
the details will be worked out after the consultants, recruited under different contracts, make detailed
recommendations on the specifications and the number of units to be procured. The Procurement Plan, identifyilng
major contract packages including schedule, has been agreed and is annexed to the PIP.
Table 6.1 summarizes the project items, their related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement. Table 6.2
summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and prior review Project-related procurement of goods and
works will follow procedures outlined in the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995 (Revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and International or National Shopping
Procedures. Project-financed consultants have been/will be recruited according to the Bank's Guiidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, Janucary 1977, revised September 1997 and January
1999. Procurement of civil works will be through NCB procedures. Bidding for goods will be packaged to the
extent possible and will be procured as follows: (a) individual contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more will
be procured using ICB; (b) individual contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be procured using NCB.
The aggregate value of such contracts should not exceed US$800,000; and (c) individual purchases of off-the-shelf
items may be procured, through prudent shopping procedures, in packages with an estimated value less than
US$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate limit ofUS$500,000. Books, journals and other reading materials will
be procured directly Off-the-Shelf or through Subscriptions, up to an aggregate limit of US$50,000. Except for
individuals, all consultants' services have been/will be selected through QCBS procedure method, while auditors will
be appointed through Least-Cost Selection method
Civil Works (US$ 0.38 million): Civil works will comprise site renovation, upgrading of existing facilities in
existing buildings at seven locations of four districts: Dhaka, Chittagong, Benapole, and Mongla, where computer
networking system for the modernization of customs administration will be installed. At Dhaka, computer
networking will be undertaken at four sites - National Board of Revenue (NBR), Dhaka Customs House, Duty
Exemption Drawback Office (DEDO) and the Inland Container Depot (ICD) Terminal under a single contract. The
remaining three sites, Chittagong Customs House, the Benapole Customs House, and the Mongla Custom House are
dispersed in the Districts of Chittagong, Jessore, and Khulna, and as such will be undertaken under three separate
contracts. The amount of each such contract will be small, are unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders and,
therefore, will be procured through NCB procedure, acceptable to IDA.
Computer and Computer Networking (USS.63 million): Procurement of Computer Networking System
establishing ASYCUDA++, including their supply and installation to be undertaken under a single contract for
modernization of custom's administration. The networking system will include computers, servers, printers and
network connectivity, and will be procured through ICB procedures. Other personal computers and accessories,
estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract may be procured through National Shopping.
Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture (US$1.92 million): Equipment includes modern detection equipment, generators,
vehicles, office equipment (photocopiers, facsimile machines, etc.), training equipment, furniture and air conditioners.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 67
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Except for the modem detection equipment, the individual contracts for other equipment are expected to be small,
costing less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, and will therefore not be suitable for procurement through ICB
procedure. Contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more (e.g., modem detection equipment estimated
to cost US$1.05 million) will be procured following ICB procedure. Other equipment, vehicles and furniture costing
less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through NCB, and those less than US$20,000
equivalenit may be procured following National Shopping procedure (i.e., by soliciting price quotations from at least
three qualified bidders).
Books and Journals (US$0.05 million): Procurement of books and periodicals comprise the bulk of this category,
and will be purchased throughout the life of the project in accordance with the requirements of the executing
agencies. Most of these books and periodicals will be related to protection analysis and trade cooperation in small
quantities and therefore may be procured directly off-the-shelf or through subscriptions.
Consultants' Services and Training (US$17.70 million): Major consultants' services include four contracts, i.e.,
Project Coordinating and Development Unit (PCU), Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation (PATC), Matching
Grant Facilities Management (MGF), and Customs Administration Modernization (CAM). These were estimated to
cost US$1.50million, US$2.00 million, US$1.95 million and US$4.30 million respectively. Proposals from short-
listed consultants for the services were received and evaluated, and contracts [have been] signed with reputable firms.
Besides, provision of US$ 1.0 million has been kept for new sub-projects that will be identified by the PCU during
early stage of project implementation, and a further US$2.0 million is available for additional subprojects or other
contingencies All the above consultants have been/will be selected using Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
method. Individual consultants required during the implementation of the project will be selected on the basis of
Consultants' qualifications and references. Selection of auditors will be undertaken through Least-Cost Selection
method
Procurement Responsibilities: Procurement responsibilities for works, goods and services will be carried out as
follows:
*  The National Board of Revenue (NBR) will carry out the civil works for the CAM component.
*  Goods for PCU and MGF components will be procured by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) with the help of
consultants and/or specialists, while the Bangladesh Tariff Commission (BTC) will carry out procurement of
goods for the PATC component NBR will carry out procurement of goods for CAM component.
*  Consultants for PCU, PATC and MGF components [have been] appointed by MOC, while NBR [has] appointed
the consultants for the CAM component.
Acceptability of NCB: The NCB procedures followed by GOB have been reviewed and found to be generally
consistent with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. hi order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines, during negotiations, agreement would be reached with
GOB confirming that the following procedures, irrespective of the value of the contracts, will be adhered to:
(a) invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
(b) bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(c) foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to national
bidders in the bidding process;
(d) qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and,
if a registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 68
Country: Bangladesh                                                    Project Title: Export Diversification Project
(e) bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
(0 bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the prior
concurrence of IDA;
(g) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(h) post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(i) re-bidding shall not be carried out without IDA's prior concurrence;
(j) all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the bidding/
contract documents;
(k) evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format
and specified period agreed by IDA;
(1) a bidder's Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor's performance security shall apply
only to the specific contract under which it was furnished;
(m) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(n) extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by exceptional circumstances; and
(o) there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
Use of Standard Documents: For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) is mandatory. For NCB procurement, the implementing agencies (MOC, BTC and NBR) will use the SBDs
for Goods (trial edition August 1997) and Works (trial edition January 1998, Revised February 1999), prepared by
IDA's Dhaka Office (BDO). The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods and Works (April 1996,
modified by BDO) will be followed for submission of evaluation reports to IDA. For inviting proposals for the four
major consultants' services, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) forms have been used. Similar form
will be used for inviting proposals for the remaining consultants' services.
Procurement Capacity Review: Procurement capacity of the three implementing agencies (MOC, BTC and NBR)
are varied. NBR has been executing Bank and other donor funded projects and as such there are a core group of
officials who have some expertise on procurement and IDA's Guidelines. However, this capacity is much less in
MOC and BTC. So further training will be required for key procurement staff of MOC, BTC and, to a lesser extent,
the NBR officials.
IDA Prior Review: IDA will carry out the prior review of the first two contracts for the procurement of goods and
the first two contracts for the procurement of works under NCB irrespective of value, and of all goods and works
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more All other contracts will be subject to selective
post-review by IDA. Such selective post-review of contracts below the thresholds will be carried out for
approximately up to five percent of the contracts awarded. The procurement, disbursement and audit team (PDAT)
of IDA's Dhaka Office in Bangladesh or finns hired for the purpose will undertake such reviews of sample contracts.
PDAT will review procedures and discuss its findings with the implementing agencies in order to rectify the
shortcomings identified during the review IDA's prior review will be required for all Services contracts estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for firrns and US$50,000 for individuals. For all other consultants'
services, IDA will review the terms of reference



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 69
Country: Bangladesh                                                     Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Review of Procurement Process: The progress of procurement will be reviewed as part of the mid-term review of
the project. The compliance with the requirements of different procurement methods and performance standards will
be closely assessed. Based on the review, IDA may revise the prior review threshold including the procurement
methods.
B. Financial ManaLerent Arrangerents and Disbursements
An assessment of the financial management (FM) system of the project was carried out during the preparation stage
of the project, to ensure that the arrangement meet IDA's requirement under OP/BP 10.02 and Guidelines under the
new Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). The PCU being outside the ambit of existing Ministry set up,
the FM review and analysis was less complex to undertake. The PCU will coordinate with different agencies and
stakeholders participating in the implementation of the project for reliable and timely preparation of FM reports. A
Finance Cell has been created in the PCU to prepare the consolidated financial statement for the project. It will
maintain consolidated accounts for all project expenditures and receipts on which annual audits will be conducted.
Initially the accounting records will be maintained manually till full migration to the computerized system. A
computerized FM system will be established witlin six months of credit effectiveness. Key aspects of the FM
system are as follows:
Staffing: To make the project LACI-compliant, IDA and GOB agreed to provide a strong FM cell within the project
set-up. Since it would be difficult to mobilize professionally qualified FM personnel from the existing set-up of the
Ministry of Commerce or National Board of Re.venue or from any other implementing agencies, GOB agreed to
provide one long term FM Specialist (FMS) and an Accounts Officer (AO) in the set-up of the project. The FMS
and the AO will be responsible for assisting the project for managing the accounting, FM and disbursement
finctions. The FMS and the AO will act as the nucleus of disbursing all funds and maintaining and preserving all
FM records. An organogram showing the requirements of the staff in the Finance Cell together with their
qualifications and Job descriptions were discussed and agreed with the Ministry of Commerce and included in the
PIP. The provision for FMS and the AO has been included in the PCU consultancy component. The signing of the
consultancy contracts being a condition for Board presentation, both FMS and the AO [have been] appointed through
the PCU consultancy.
Accounting: The financial records of the project will be kept in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and practices. While accounts will be kept on a cash basis (following GOB practice), outstanding
expenditures will be accounted for review at least annually and reflected in the Project Balance Sheet. BDXDP shall
establish procedures and records adequate to monitor progress of the project in accordance with sound accounting
practices. The accounting structure reflect the relevant chart of accounts broken down into the types of expenditure
by project component and reflected in the PIP. Initially, the accounts will be manually prepared until the
computerized accounting system is made fully operational and concerned persoinel are trained to run the system.
The project will maintain activity-based subsidiary record for monitoring of detail accounts/key indicators. Both in
manual system and computerized system, the project books of accounts be kept up to date on a daily basis.
Internal Controls: Internal control system covering staffing plan, proper segregation of duties and defined
responsibilities, methods adopted to safeguard project resources and sound policies, procedures and guidelines to
achieve project goals and objectives will be installed in the PCU and also in the sub-projects. PCU's organization
plan showing the functional/reporting relationship among units including Finance Cell is given in the PIP and is
satisfactory to IDA.
Budgeting: There will be proper arrangements and procedures for financial planning, the mechanism for
formulating project budgets and consistency of budgets with FM reporting requirements, and the remedial action it
will take after monitoring reports. The PCU will submit a yearly budget of the project in line with GOB Annual
Development Program to IDA by February for the following financial year taking into consideration of the physical



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 70
Country: Bangladesh                                                   Project Title: Export Diversification Project
work implementation plan of the project for the coming year Such budget will be divided into four quarters as much
as practicable.
Reporting System: The project will prepare quarterly Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) as per specific formats
discussed and agreed by GOB and included in the PIP. PMR will show:
*  financial statements that include: Sources and Uses of Funds for each quarter, year to-date; and cumulative costs
of project to-date; Usage of funds by Project Activities, Project Balance Sheet; Cash Withdrawal; Cash Forecast;
and a Special Account Statement,
*  Project Progress : Output Monitoring Reports; and
*  Procurement Monitoring Reports
If the PMRs are not submitted within 45 days from the end of the quarter, the disbursement for the next quarter will
be delayed.
Audit Requirements and Arrangements: IDA requires audited financial statement in accordance with intemational
standards on auditing within six months after the end of each fiscal year A private firm of Chartered Accountants
acceptable to the IDA will be used to conduct the audit of the Project Accounts, Special Accounts, and procurement
documentation The audit will undertake a thorough inventory and physical verification of assets procured under the
project. The firm to be selected to conduct the audit will engage a multi-disciplinary team of experts in addition to
audit experts to conduct such audit. Necessary budget provision is made to finance the cost of the audit. The audit
will cover the quality of the work completed besides the above points. The auditor(s) so appointed must be the
Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh holding a practice certificate and having affiliation
with an internationally reputed audit firm. The detailed TOR of the auditor have been agreed with GOB and included
in the PIP. The auditor will be appointed within three months from the date of the credit effectiveness. Besides the
above, it is agreed that the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General will conduct the audit of the accounts of
the project to see that the GOB rules and regulations are complied with where applicable
Project Audit Committee (PAC): GOB agreed to establish a seven-member Project Audit Committee (PAC). The
members of the PAC comprise the president pro tem of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, nominees of the 1999
presidents of the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry and Metropolitan and Chittagong
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, a representative of the Finance Division at or above the level of deputy
secretary, and the chief accounting officers of the MOC and NBR. The FMS of the Project will act as the Secretary
of the PAC.. The Project Steering Committee may co-opt up to three other persons as members of the PAC. Neither
the PDs nor other Project staff should be members of the PAC. The terms of reference of the PAC has been
discussed, agreed with GOB and included in the PIP
Disbursements: With the above arrangement in place, PMR-based disbursements can begin at the project start up
and the requirements of FM System for the project will be consistent with IDA's operational policy in OP/BP 10.02.
Normally all disbursement will be channeled through the Special Account (SA) under PMR based disbursement. To
facilitate timely payment to the beneficiaries, the Government may open and maintain US Dollar SA in Bangladesh
Bank to make payments of IDA's share of expenditures. The advance will be limited to a maximum of 20% of the
credit amount or US 6.00 million whichever is less. Subject to the above condition, the initial deposit to the SA will
be determined on the basis of cash flow requirement to be submitted and agreed on a quarterly basis. Under PMR-
based disbursements the only supporting documentation submitted to IDA will be the quarterly PMRs. However,
PCU will maintain and preserve all supporting documentation authenticating the expenditures reported in the PMR
and made available for review by the auditors and IDA missions



-V(ll dq paounuif aq ol siunowo aill aiv s.isotguawd ult saan,& : a) oAr
L:;;:;ii: 1 .; ii ;; wo ; ... ........ .... -:::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::: ;;!;::: b p:4...... ... - . .. .. ... ..... :4w: :: ::::::::::: ::::::: ::: :  : : ::  : ; ::: ;:  : ; ;   : ;;::; :  :: :::  ::::::  ;: :  ::;:,: ::  : :   : 1-11 -... . :
..:.:--:..:::.- .... :::::,.;::;:!: ::: :!:--- . ...... ... . -. ......... I I . - - ...  1-1- ...... I.- ...... - ---  1. . I    . . .1 ...  - -1 ... .. -11 .. .. ... ".. 11 ... - I I .1. ... . I -11- :: ::::::::::::::::::.: :1 I I.. I - 11
::::: :'::::  , , .. ... .1 ...... -. ..: ".-.... I I -.1 I 11.1'.. - - -
:L::wq:;:; .....  :;::::;:::: :::: ... v - -.. ....... .. .. .; . :::::::; :::::::: ::;::;  ::;: ; -.1.11V
::4:::::L:::ii::::: ..... : ;: -... : -,::;;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;::: :::::: :.:
,'-%..-:;::p : ::;: "I'll.- ... 1.11'... .. -  .. :::i!:!  i!!:;::: :: :::: ::::   -: U O"Ll : ; 
.;
.. !p::
.... 11 ... -:-, ......-J'OIW U: 6.61f. -(-10`60; glf : ; (ts 6)0:663- 1- - - (0.110. O.S.Z
. o--:::::;:::: ::::: .... .. .. x" :; - :i:4444:11 :I
:=%;:N .- :7:it:f:::;::::t7:.:. ;: ::::::::: : :11; 0.I.- ..... ..:::!
-".-...-:::... .......- -..... . ..... : -- ... --::::::- ::::; ::::: :; :II
:;:: ::::::;:::::::::::::::::::: :: -:-:::: i:: :;:::::::;::::::::::ppp::::: :::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::: ::: :::::::: :' ::::: :::::::: ]: : ::::: ::::::::::: : .
:::: :::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::: ;::::::;:::;":::::::::::::::!:: ::!: :-::::: :::;:; :: ;::w:: ::::::!!:: ;:::::: ::::::::;q:::::!::: :;: :::i:::: :::::.::::::::..::: :::::::::: ::::i:f;::;::: ::::   : :  :  ;;:: ::;::::-:;w:::q:q::::::::::
 II I I
::;::::-;:: ::::;:::::::7:::::::7::;7:77:::::: - ;;;:::;: :Z::6:6:::::  : :... ' . , ::.. b . .  I ;I:: : ;  :: : Z: :: :: :%:; :::  I... 1. .-....... -..... .. I ..... .. :::::: ::::::;::;:: I Z::::::: z . .... 11 I -... 11 I......-I I.. -
::::::i;::;:::i:7:::;:,::;:z;;;: :::::::::::  :: :::;:: ::::  !  :::::::::   : 4 444 11.b l;  i: : :: :. ............ --:::: :: 1;::% ::::I:::::: :::::   1 :: : ::::: ::: -, ; :; : :::: i ::::::: :::: : : :;;:;;: i:;ww I : ;::::;  i::::: i ::::::::: :i -- .. ...... ....1..... . ... ..
....   . I--  .;: :::.. I  I I I I . I...... :. ;.4 I. z- ..... . .... ::: :: ::  : :::::::::  : ;....  . . .. .....-. I .. 11 . 1. I . .II . -I 1 I I : :::: ::: :: I.. I . . .. -.- ..-..... I I ::::  :: z::: :: .....,:....... ,.  - , , -  I I . I... I,. I I...
....  :.: .....-.... - I . .-- - -. ....-......... -- ......... I  - ..",' :
.... 11 ....co 1. I I- - II. ......I.... 11. .-. . .1. ;: ::::I........
:: -:4 : --- - -.......(. 1: :::: : ::::::: : ::: : :::"I'll,
;: :;:: :: ::::: ::: ::.:...
...  ....Z...,I-.8L. -.. .......:. -SCI :: : I -:::::::::::::: I11.1.
,  :=::::::::::::::-:::: 'If  : ::::  I... ;:-::::::::.-If':::;
............... Z7, -- ... :-.1-1-111- Et ) W- ; :::::: -.11-1 1. I- -:::::::'p4jrj'ojj?3"
.- :::.- ....... ::F:::1::::.:::: :ii:::l ..;: ...... bdd ........:... w dll ::: ....w.... :.l ......... ;:..... ................. ....-. ... ........ :: ::::::::!; :: ;;::::m: i;;:: =!! -:::; --::::: ..... I 1.1-F i .- - ".... - 11 ... -1.1'....-
....-..........I........-...... - :: :::::::-::::::;::]::::::::::: i::w!.F ,-4:!::: :::: :::!::::= ::::  :: :;::;:::-,' ::F: : -.1. .1 ... - I -.11 - - I11 I -- 1.11, ... - I".. .1  I.- I 1,
.......-I..... .1 ... ...  I.I.::::,:::::::::::::::::::
;:::: ::::;:::; ;7:;;::;; ::;:m:::p:::: :q::;:::::;: : ::::::::;::::::::::;::: :::::; :z: :: ;:; Z : Z Z Z :::   !::::::::::::: :: -... ..:... ::,....---..11--I
-...... . .." .......  1-1-1-:: ::I:p::: : ::::: : ::
::::::: .. .................-..... ........ .. -:::::;;:;::::::::: :;; ::!:Ib FbF :::- i: : : ::::: ::: : Z:: ::: ;: .. I - I... I . . .. ... ".   .I- II '. .I 11
;::;: :;::::::::::::::;:::::;;;::;:::::::;;:;:;:::;::::4:::: :::::::::::;::: ;::b:::: dd:b:q::4:w:: ;:::::q::;:::; ::::::: .....,- ................... ......::;;:; :: :;;;:: :1  :::!; :: :::::::  :: :;::::: :   n:p: .: 1   ::: ::    7:: ::-: , , ...
:::;: :::---..- .................... .............. .. ......... .. ...........  . .... ...... .. . .... I. --- ... 1. . .:.::: ... :-! ." ::: :: ;:--: :o :!! :::.............. ............ .......... . .......i :: :::::::::::;;:::;; :;:;;::;:: : :  !:  ::  :::::::::::::: ::
: !ll: - T.. I.i.. .)....:.i. . .... .. ....... . ....... .. ... ..-.. ...-- - -............ ; .01 -..
:::!::::I: ::- :: ...I w;II.. ; :::::: : z::;: : :::::: I II-.. I..11 ... -.1-1 -....:::: 1.11 ...I.11 ..
.
-)91 zz : 7 : : ::-I
-::::::::il :i::::: ::::: -::: ( :. W.0,  6. 0. 0.l:::i::;.   i:: t iiq": ii": i -i  iwiw'..
::w :::::: : ::; ::::i:::::: I......I.... 1-1-1-1 : :-:: -::::-::: .: -.1--.......-I ....., Qa.. mlwao
-... ........ .1 .... I".. -: O.. VO-..'
:;:::: :::: ::::::;; i:-:; 0.0' .6 .. :11
:i:;:: - ........I....... .. I'll I-::;!- ...7 .... :!:F : p:::!!! ::: 1. :   -:.. I ::: -..,... ... .... . ... .... ... :: :; :::I ::: :: : ::: :;%:: :'I z::   :--- I  .I  -...II.. ...II.
. ...... ...... ppq:::: :q:::::::::: ::::::w ::::;  w; :: :::::w:: ::: ::::.I.... .; - I..... 11 .. .......I-  -: :: : :::::: :::::: :I: ... ....... I... ... . I...  -1- ... ..... I I.,  ::::::::
;::: ::; ".W., ... :::l;::::::::::::::::::: - ::::- :- ... -- ---- ... I I...., ... - : :: . I;:;  - ::::::JPqwl ?'" 
11-1- .... ...I...-.... ..... 11 ... -.- ...... --l": z;=::::::::::::::::::: =:::::;: : I",  . 11 - '::.::-:-::: :: :: ::::; :::::;:: ::::::!: ::::::; ;: :::::: ;;::: ;
........ L : ::: : ::::::: ::: :: :q ::: : - ::::::::: ::::::% ::;::  ::: q :;:7 :; : :: ;:: ::::: :: ;:;:: q ::!: : ::: ::: i ::  ::: :::: i":; ::: :: ::` ;':4 ...... .. . .--- .-.... I .1 ...-... ... ...I.. .. ... :::.
. I.....I.......... - .. . . .. ll.;.:::  :: ::::::    q:::::::::w: :::::: 7::   : :::: ;::::: :::: :!:: :::::: -4 ,!:,:.:. ., . --- : ::::::::::" : i:::!: !: :: :!;: ::- .- .. II .: ....  FF  ::i:::::::::i:::L::-... .. .... - -  , ". - .  .. - . ..
 I......I..... 11 .. ... - -- ...... .. : : : :: ::::ii:; . '.. .. ... .. :L ::: :: ::::: :; :: :::  :;  : ;. ..;;-;:::: ::: ::: :: : L :::  7 :::: ; ;: : : w:::::  ::::::::::
::::;7 : '; 66 ::::::::: :::::::;::w: ::: ::! 7  ::m: :;:;:::;::ii:::::w i: : :;; ::;: :: : : : : ;: i ,-....... . ..:: 7::: :: - :: :I :::-
: ::::: p: :;:::; ::::::: :::::::::::::: ;:;: ;::::::: ;::::::::: :: i::%%::: :; :::%q:::;::: ;::w;:7.-.,. ,.: ::; :: :: ::::: ::  ::: 11I-I.I ::::::::::: :::::::::::  : :: :,
:: !:! :... "'''I-.1- :::::: :::::; ::.: ::: :7 :: p : :: I .1 .1 . 1..I
.I-... ''.-.:::: :: q ;;; ... ..... - =: :!!::::!:: .. ...... . .. .,: ... ......-... -- ... - ...... ..... - ;..:..:-- RI.4vlq. I'll
  .11 ....                                       -     ....          :::::p:p::                                                     ::::                                     ::::           q         - 1-                                            :-::::::.; ::::::::::;::;::;;;;                                                                                                                    ;;:    :::::          ;:i;:::::::::::::::ii::::;:;::::;;:iN
:::: L-:-.- -:::: :::I... ::: "''17 0. q;::-I I..
-..- d t;': :7::: Wo.t.-TY, 0* .... t. O- zT.-Y.I.O.Ottz. ., a!q
-11 :: I.-::: :: :::::. 1. . . ....I" :::::L :L q::T::; :: i:: ::: ::; i:::: Z: ;;;;;;; :::::::: ::
1. I .. ...II. ...: ::: : :::::: : ;:: :: : -: : ; :-::%;; ::::- : :-i::L::-i::: ;  ::: -: :::  ::: :::.  ::%::: ;;:::::: : . 1. I.. 1. 1. .... - 11 1.111,I
-...:.......... ,.: .... ::: :::: :-: :Z::::::::: ::: Z::: :::::::::;: : ;;:::::: :: ::::::: ::::..... ...........i ;.: : :;- : ; :: ;l:
::::::::::  : : : : ::::;:::;; ........  :,- ::: :: :::: ;.:::: -: ::::::::::::::; :::: 7: : ::: :::: . W::; ;mwi : :%::! m :::::: :: i:::;::  : q:n:::: :: ::i:::::::: ::::::: :: ::::  ::::::: !::;,:::::-: ...b
I..... .. I - I... ... I.. ..... ... . II... :. I -:!.: I :;::  :: :;  :; wp p : ::::;:: : ::  : : w!.::;:::FWIF :44 : ;: : ::: :: :' . !: .F :::.:: .. .. : :: :...... ... .. - - . I........ ... .11 -  :: : :11-...  111.1 .. ...-I...11-11. .. I
::::;::::  . .:::;;7::;;;:; :q:wwmw :qqpF:q7::::::::: 7:::: :::  : : ::::  :: I I;: ;....... ............ :p:  ; ; ;:ww d4:: WI do :;:l 1. -q.:-.. .11. I I.......:.  .... .   - ---- -- I ::: -I
.. :;::::pi;;::::; ::::::!%::  :::! !:i ::   :::: : : :  ::::1.-....II .:::;  :::;  ;::Fb : 44;:;: ;; :::: ::   ::: P:: ::::::: :: :7  I.. .-1-1:W:",I1. - 1. ... I - ". ... .. ... -1- ... ...
:::q::;::: :: ::: %: i;:: ::::::: :::i  i : :: :::: ::!:::::: :  :::: ::::: ::::Z; ::: I ..I.II  I 11 .1-.::::::: :: :: : ::w;p : :::i::::L: ii;;:;;:::::::::: %i: :;:::: : . ::O: - :; :(Sm I--
;:::::::::::4::q::: :::i::::::: ::i: ::::::: :::i :::: m wi: ;;::i: : :: ::: I :: : L:::::..I  i Z : ;:: :::::: ::  :. .. 1..-... .1 - .1.11 - -I. ... ... ". .." I:;:-..1-
... ....:... ::-  -:-!:: ..... :, ... ............... :::::::::::::::::;:: : :::::;T::::":i: :: ;::;:::;:;:  :-::::::::%::::::: :;:::;:;;;;;::;;:::;:;;::;;;;::::;::];;:::: :;::;      : :: ::::: . H-VMaNSY
::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:::::..:.::,::: :: . .. 1. .- I -... ::: i: :::::  i... ..".,.:;,,,.;;:,.,.,.:;::, ::::::-.l. ."...' ...I... . 1-1-111 .... I'll
1::.
.... .." .... -:.,, .... !;.: ...I... !:.- : ::::::7::::::::::: ::::::::::.:::::;:: ::::b:::d::db :;im:;:Tp:-I I. -.... ::::: -::::::::: :::::;: : I I'll ...... 2 t p '.111''.....I.,
".  a ;; ::: : : :::i : :;:;::: ::::::: :".-:... ...,.'.. . .. . .. ...."--... q: i::: :::;::i:: ::: :  : :: ::: : :;dl: L :::: ::: : ::::::::  i : 7::: ::: ' - ,::
I-- ...:......... .. -... : --::  ::.: :::::::: :::: ::::::: ::: :::: : :::::::.: ::;: :: :w :: z;  .:: :: :: ::: :: :: : ::: ::: ;: ;;;w: ;::iiq;;:::: o: ;47:! : i:: :::: : :: II : :7....;. tfj) gululwj:
..1 -I. .11 ... :: !::: : i:i::: %i ::: ... I. I I I . .... ......... -  o: -..  .I=::::: ':: u .0,.
... ...I.........I....I11 .. .I:: -!  . . ::: .... ....... .. ... - - . - - .1 ...",-
,::.;:..::;.  % :77:::: pp i:;: qqq ::::::::: :' ::::]:;:::.:::. I - - - ... -............-:::::::: 11I11I.1  . -...-
:::4:::p:::p::;:::: ::::::::::::::: t:::::::: :;::;:::::: :::;::;:::: :; ;!;:::: :::: :! :: ; :;. ;..::::::: ::.....:Z
:: :;::::::;::::;::::::::::F .......... .::i::;:i:::::i:::::!:;:::-. Fd I....:.... ... ., -.1-1-1-11-1-1 ...-.....IPUL, is 0 sgwjjnmoli:ii
- I: ::: :;: ---- ....-...... - ......-..... .I 1- ....;
I..  .I I-- I x ::::::; . :::!:::::: ..... , _.... -.1.11 ... 11-11-1
---' ....... :11, -. .... - :  ; -::; : ::;:qA:Fll :F:L :;;:!::::: :bp :;;;:bp :LL::;: ;: q;;:F wwb4:::I;;qmp oo q; ::; :::;;:;  ::::I... paw S.-
- .. :. ..... I.... I... ... .... .11 I...-....... 11 .................. :,:::,:;; :::: - :-......I-:: ::4- --  I ---- - ...... .. I :: :::: :11 1. I.:::.
::   :::; :::;;;:::::::::::;: ::; :" :(.. -: : :), ;:;-::-::-:..... I : : :I1: : : :: :: : :: .: .I -... "..- I ; ;-
-  . : :,:., . -.11 .. .. .1. .1 ".. I- I'll 11 - -.-l:::w..F:; ! :: :::; %; i  ;  ...
I I .1 11 - ll: m  wo..::: :;; II..:' Ill: .... ,
1.18:.:rlg',!i!i! 6VS.T -;::X.f.".81:w..': ::::i.(6t .1 ..... .. ... I.I.-... -;i::...- .... .. ...... .I .. .::::: : ::Z:;;; . I11
.9 d.. ;8l::;;"::::::::::!::::;::::::::: ,. :!:: :i! ::!= ;: ::::: ::--7 ,'
, ... ;. ........... - -.....I- -- ....:-..,
I I.I.- ... II-- ......". .......... I. ......... -::--::4 ..... .::=;;::-
-.... -.b..  I. .:::: -:: -- I  - - ,....'..''....:;::;::;:,; :::;p; :::ww 11 I... . 1. - ---.,: 0:-;: --
11:   ! ::: !... . - 11 -.... "...
I =:::;:::;::=;:  ... I.. 1. . ... .. -1111-1 -.1 ... ..-...I; -- 1. "..' .
:-- ....... ::-:W:: :::::;;:w::::;;;:''-dd4441:11:::pii::!:; ; :::::::: ::::::::  :: :
;; ,:..:::.:-.':::m:.'l. -... ....:...:!:::::::::::::::::i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : ::;:;!: p ;. -......  .- - I .. I...
-..... - ::q:::::::::::::"::::: .:Ll J:::d:F!d:=:::::::::::!:;::q ::::: :,, 4.. ... ...- .... --'.: - -b.: 11- I I.....
:::14:: :L :q:p :! ::;:::L ::4::::I. !:  40-1: "...... ... .. ........ ... .. ::::: :i ;: :::::: :: :: ::::::::: i .............
. ..' . ..... .1 ......... 11 .1.I ::::: :   :: 6: :::::: I .- 111-111 1. I -- --'
T:i !;;:::: ;: F 1:: ; :: :: :: ::: :::::: :::::;::]:::;:::;:;:;;:::::;;z::::F 4. 4-1.1:00 :4, qw:: :; ...-::...;
. .. .... :.. .: : ::.:: :: ::: :t::::::;j: : m: ::i..... .I.......-.... ........... ,: :::: :::: : -:: .. 1. :-. I:::: :" i:  ;i
....:.... .,..... :..:., .::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:b b. -.1 . ... ... I.. : t::::: 7:: :ii:::::--....."...... ..-.... .-11 11 -- 1 I .1-::.-I :: ::7 :::::::;; .. . I I.... I I I.... 11 -1-I
.  ;:6.bb:6"M66::.::  : : -: ::.::' :: :::: ::::::::;: :111 11 -I
::- -::: ,...!...... :---:: ::::.:::::::::::::::::::;:::: ::::::::: ::;W;:;::;:;:;::;::;.;: ; ::::: :: ::: ::: : :::::: iii:::: :i q:::  ;; :: :;  : ;ii:!  ii:::: ' : Z :i :: :: i% i; ! ::I
:::!- -::bbb .: .-'b-7, ........  .:.: ::-:::::: :: 7:-':'. . :; ::::::::: : :::: ::q:::::; "::::: b bF F.':! !::11 ....-11 .....I. I -I..
... I.: . ... .......... .........I... i: qqi: ;: I  I :::;::pp: :]::;;; m ::. :--:.  : ;: :,... ... ..l 44::::: :: :-i::: !;::bb ,:.- : : i!::;: L F. 40., 7.1 :::-". . ., -....--.....-:::::::::;: :::::::: :
.. .. .. ... : :4: :: :::::::: :::: :::;Ia: - ;::::: ::: ::: :;::::zo: ;-: :; :  ;  :
,: :;;;;%m: pp%;::im: :::i:::::w!: ::: ::i: :::Fb:d:; 441:411::: ::i11:1:::;,::::, ,::iq::::::::::;;: :  ., .... . .:. : :: ;: ::: :: ::.-.- ... ....-.1-1-1-I .
 :::::.:,: :b .. : : - :,z:::::: ::::: : : : : ::
.,  4: :..: F... " -,   : - 1, : - :: ;:  : : ;;:: :; p :z::; ; ;::: ;; -: : i:: qo: :;   :;;             i   :     sl lou.mo r:
::i::w::-- .........  - :: : :::: : :  :::: :: .....,d ;:::::: ::::   ::::: ..: :-q:'.: ;  :;:::: : :: : :: ,. ..:..: . .. ....... .......... ..........-:I.......-I,: ... : :.I
I.- ::: 1 11: 4.: b: d.: :  ::: :  :: : L i  % : w::::: .. ...
;::::;;;:;,: :::: :::::::: ::::i: ::: q:::w:::: :: ;: : ;:1.: 
I-- ....... .4 ... ::-:  p: :;::::ww:i: : : :;Wbb ::: ;:;:ql:l::!:: i:: F ,p
-.1- 11 ...-... 1.  --  - z:::::- 1: :: : ::: ::;:" :::::::::; ::::;::; ::::w  I :::::,!,:::::::::::.:,.:.Uv..$3,1 QEII I....
11.1 ...... I ;....:::::::t:::;::::;:::::::::!::;:: .....1--.1:1- ... 1.1- ........ ........ ....... . .....
-:::w;::: :: ::::::: q::;:: : Lo::::::: :: :::: -:::: : .- .....-.... I'll ...I... - ::::  ::  : :::: ::  ::::: L....  -...-.....  -11-1-
... -11 -:-.1 ........ - .::.I1; .- --iizq - ..... 11.1--.1-I.. .....I.....-.1 ... .. ....I...-.-i iii - i i... ....11 . ..II.... .-. I .11.
:-: . .... - , , ... - . , ....I.......- . . ...... -.1 I.. I11: .... :.:. :: :::::
::; ;- ..--- -:::: ::::::::::7 :::;:::
.::...:-.- .- .1 ..... ...I ;:::: :::  .. ::: ::::  ::I1.
--.--
---- - I...... .: .... .. :...Ii;- .....  0.10 i;: : ;!!:]!!!!!
... ;.'-:  : :: : ; :: :::::Xo.'  i Iiii!! ;::: :: Z::.
.1::: : : : !:m. .  ;. 1: .:' .. ! 1. 1: - i : ,: ::: - O, -,
:., i.. V." :- :,:: No
loo"', - - . - -S-
:: :  : :: ... ; -:Fww7::::::::::::;:::::::::::::: :::w::;;::::::: : ::44::::' :: ::q;;::FF 4::;:Mqz7q. 1 1 - I..: :,:::::::::: :!::::: :::: :::::::--"';-:,- .. ll::t!,: :::  :; ;; ;:::::  ;;:
... :::: ':::::, : : ; ::: ,. : - :::: : :: ;: :::::; : :  :w:::Pbo .: 4-d' ": ::: o:::::: : :::;::. t::Zm :;:; :;:p:: : :::::::::: : : ::: :  I-:  I .. I I-11.1 ..
 : mq:ww::: :!:!::b.... 441; ::z::O: O.... - ;: :: ::: :. : :: :. .. . I  ::::: :: -::::: :: L:: :: : ::: :%:::  i::i:::  i::: ::: ..... .......... . .. ........ ::t ll;;:Zp : ;: ::: ;:: ; ::: 11I 1-1 -
... 11, .... :::!:::::::::::::i:::::;,7:;;::;::::: :::;;::::i":::q7::::: ;:4d:d:;Fb:l i:;: :;:::: ; : :;  .. .1 .. ... I-- 11 .1- - I I -- I . : :: :: :  ;:;:;;:: : ::: ::: . ;:::;:: ::::: :: 41::b ::;ql:::: ::::;::::  ::ii:: ii :;: i I :.
., ... ;:;:..,:!;::::::;;i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::i::::::::-.......I-.... :: ::::::::::::: :::: :::;:::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::;:;:: ;: !wn -  11
: :iH::: ::::Wb !:: ll:::::i:::::::::w::: . .... dob.: ::::;:::::: ::::: t: ,::. :: -: ::: : : '. - - :::::::: :::;:: ;;  :::; : ::::::;; :::]:::p;::: ;;:qp ;:: ::::: ::r:::: :: :  ;::: ::: rri::::qmm :;: ;::::;; ;;:: ::: : ::: qp::: ;::: 11 11 1; ,11
::;:::::;:::::::::;:::::;:::::;::;::: ::::;! i;:::::::FF:!::4d,:!! !! !::!:'b:  ! :!i -! i -!:I .. -:.. -I .. : Z :  :-; ; :::::::::::::;::::::::::   ::: :::!::::::::;:;7:::;
:::::::::::::::.:wF :",, - ,, .- ::  ::::; ::::::::::: "'- .... ..-.... .. .-... ... -'.: ...I.... I :  :::1 --. I . .. .1.1 . I... . .. - I .-...  11-1-A. .
::::::i:' . .. ....... ... 4 :::.::: ::: :: ::' :::::::;:;::::::::::::,:;:::::; :::;::::::::;:;;;:::: ::::;  ::::::::::::;:::: :::::::: :::;::::;::::::: :::!:::::: ::::::.::; :::: :::::;::::::::::: : 1:;::::; ::: ::::: :;:,:;:: : :::;:;: ... .-- 11- 11
....... ... .....:,,. '.",-
.... ... ..I..... ... -11. ... 1. !! :: :::%:7::F :::: :::: . --.;*1 . ....,; T in, :"::
: :::-.-I.....:::::;: 
- 1; ...I-;::::.:.. :::;:), -- -- - ,'. '- ., : : ........ ..910"Y' O " ' "  (69" 0- "' ";;:-: I N-MPA1- :
,,,, .
::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::;::w:;A'";w; m ::!;;;qpos: : q:;::: Z'I... ..
-- ....... --- --: ... ::p:'.-.-..'-. : ... I.:. :;:::i::: :i:::b.. ,".- ... : :!. : ., ":.I . ...."11--l ....... .--!::: ... .. -:::
-, 3..OI:..... ;::::5'0.'T :: ::, ::.:-:::::::::::::::::::::: ......  -- ....I.I.,
 :: :::: :::::::.
--- ..... ... -- I
: ::: ;;::-- - WT.1.6 ( .- 0) .( . :'d b
.. .:::::::::;::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::i:; .. ...... .......... ........ -::;: ::::::::;::Zrww:::::::: :: ::::: ': ...... 4:' - 4:: :;:::::
::::: ::: : : ; ; ::;;;:I;::t!;::::;  77::I::::::: :::: tt:::: ::;In::: ::;;:;:::  .. . ...: : : ........... ... ::. I..... -1 ::::::: :::::: ;: q ;::! :- : "::::  -::.: - =
--... .I - 1.11, ..........-....-...... I -...... :::  :::: :::: ::: ::::::: :; ::::::;L :ii7::;::::: ::: : : :z;::::::I...... - I-- -  :: : : : :; : :-: .. .... -'. -1-1111-:..-... I I..
 : :: :: - :: :: ; :: ::: ::: : :: : :;;:: ;::::::;;z :::::::::::;::;::: :; : : ::::::::::p ::: ;:::: -:: :- : 4:11d::: i:::::: ::::::: : 7:::::: :i: :::::: : : :::::: : ::::: I. - I - I
...I..... ::i::L:::::::::;::::::::::: :::::::7::: :: ::  - ::' ::::: :: :::: :!:::Ip ...... I .. I.::: Z::::  :::: ::::::::::,. . .:: : : : :: : : '::::::::::- ......... ......... .. .1 .. .I.-
:;"q ::ww:iwwm:::::w: i::i::::::;i :::::: : w:::::::::;:::::: : ::: ::::: ;: :: :::  :::: : ::: F ::4:d:p ::: : :: ; ::::: ::%:::- ::7:: 4:71bp 44 ::::::::: ::: :::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 1: ::::: ..I . 11 .
.... ....... I.. I....b.... ,:::::::::::::;:::;;::;;:::::::::::::::;7:;:::::::: ::::!:::::::7:;;::::::7 !:::::;: :: % - .... : ::;::::::,:::::;::;::::::::::ii::;::::::::::::: !:::!: !::::i::: .. ......... .. -:!::: ,;!::::::::: ::::::::: ,::::::::::: ;:;:::: ::::: ::::
:1 I : :::: :: :::!::::::: : :::: : !. .... .. ::,::::;;:: :::::::;: p ::::i :::m::::;;; :::;: : ::: ::: ".... .1, .... .- ... .. . I
. 11 I I  I 111. .--- ...... --..- .... :::::;:qz::::  :iqz: mzp: :;:::::: :: :::: :;7=; :: ,.b: ...:.... : :: ::::::T:::::: : :::. ... - :::::: 1. ... .;. :1 :; :.. ' . I......I... ".
: : ;:::; :; :::::::: :: :: :::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::; ::;%:; -7::; :o ::::: :  :i .,  d-,;-:::::::::: ::;: ::::::;ww:
1.11 .... .:: :;::; ::: :: : - :: !: T::::::;;:::; ;: ::: :;;:; ;w::;:; :::   :::::: i:::::::: 4i.':..::::::::T 11 -  I 11 ... .
....... ........ -- . -.I. . ".. ::::::: ::: q::::;w::i: :;:;;;i:: :;,zw:aul
:7:::::::::;::::":;!:::::: ::::;::::;; ::::::::::::::::: ::::::-- - Z:w4.::::::: ii::::;;w:::p. ;:;:  I -:0 :: :1. : ;::::b:::4:dd::::: ::::::: ;: : '.."..' ... PI M'4001.::'
...........I....... --::::w:ii:i ::;t::;!i:;:::::::ll:::::::::-i:z:z::::::::;7:::::::71:::::: :....-   :::::    ::: : :::::: ; -; I  I... ;-1- I... .. . I :: , 11 . .... l  :: 
.11-1 ..... I  .. ..... -.. .111--' ... 11 ...-.111, .....  I 11.11, ........ 11.1 ....... - 11 ...... .. 1. . . . I. .1: :::::;::: qq:;;::;::;::;::::; ;::::r::7 ::;::%: ::;:::;:::;::::::i q:: :: ::::  : z:- :: ::::::::.".I". I. .I . - 1-111. I I . .1-
..........:.............. :: -m::z7:'.. .., ., .::;. . -...,... .
...I.- ::;:;;z:::::;:::;;::::;:;;::::::: .. :I:::: : -..:;;:, :;:; :;: . . .... ..... .":;t' ::;::::: ,! z;:::: % :: ::::::I. In Eummur-]s 3.... .
-.......-.....-......... -... ..... .. ll;- . .. ...... .-::.:;-'.
.., ..-.-
.
.... ......F--- : ::' -:::.Wwl::::: :: - ;:' (OCUUNStIl ::::::::M;:;;;:: 91: I...........,
.a- .§ . :::::: :: .-STdd:......

... -....' .................. :::F .... qqoo::tl , .c
.- . ............. :: I ". 0. ::.j . .'I ..::: :::: ;:::II 11. IP, 
:::: ::.!(0. I  O. O.......-......... :Z ;:: ,:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ... ,.b :; ,:.
....I.... - -1- .....  :: ....... ::-::::46 ...
I... - I. ....... - .. -::::!::: ::zz:: -;;::;;;: : =::::::::::: . ...... -' ...- ......-
-::::- : z Z;4::::::T7:::]qpm ::: 7:::: : :::::: : : :::: : 7i:::::: ....... .... .................. ....... - .-.--Iqq-olw ... 11.11 ... ''I"..- .I.- 1:: : :: :::: :::T ::
; : ::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::!::::i:: -;:::::: :z::::::::::::: :,:;::::' :.::::ww::: -:w::::%::: ; I l :::: :i::t:t : :: :  :: :::-  :::::- - . , , .. .1. I  -... .. I - I I: ..  ::::: :z ::::::::: ::::;: : :: i: ::;  :: %;::::
:::T::::;::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::"::;;;:;:::::77:;:::;::::  7:::::::::: ::::::: ::: ;::::::::: :::: :!:! : - -: ::::::::::.::;:;:::;.::::::;:;:: qp:;;:w qqq;;;::: qq::r;::w:: qqqr:p::: :p: ;:;:::q::; :! :  ::::; : :oq:::::::: i::: ;::::::::::::::::::: :: ... .......... .. - ".- I.." I
-- ..... ::::l:::::::::::::::::::::i::;:::::::: ; --::::::::::!::::::::::::::':: .... :...:.::..:.:::::::::::;:::;: ::;:;::; 4:7- .. ......  : i! ::i:: ,:: f!:::: !::: . ..........  ....... .. .... - -...  .11 I I . . - ::::::L : :: ::: :: .. ........ ::  ::: ::::F ::::: :: :::: :
:::::;::::::::!:::;;::::::;;;;::;; w::::::;::::::q::::.:. T:i :::: :::: :::Z: : ::: : :  . .. .-- ..... 1;  :::;:::: :::::::; :;:::::;:::;::: ::;::-q:prrp;;: :!wmw :i :;; w:: ::: :::::::::::: :::::;:::: :::::::; - I-.. I I...I
...:..,!::::::;:::::::::::::::::.::;:::::::::  - :-- :;::::!::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::w.F:::;::::: ::::;:;:::::;;:: , -..: ... ;.. :;::: : ! !::::: ::::::::::: :......... .- , , ::::::::::::;:::: ::::;;;:::::;:::::71:: ; ;::': : :::-:: ,.b:::: ::': ::: ::: :: : !
:::::::::::l:::::::::;:::::: :::!T;: :;;;::::::::::::;:i::::::: w ::::::::;:;z::::;;r:; ': .... 1. ::: :: :::::::i::::::::-:: :::::7 :: :: :i::: :::: :: : : :::: ::: :::: ::  : :::::: !::;::':;:;::: ; :t: :::  :: ! i::: ::: :; :
..", ... :::::::::::::::::;:::::!::::::;::::::::::-::::::::: : ::;::::::::::..;.,::";::::: ::::::::;::i!::::.:::,::: ::: .::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::w qq:::;7:i:qqq :;:' ::::::::; -: :-. . .. ... . .....
11 ........-.......... -- --. . .....-. ....... --. ...-....I........... -.1111 ......  I'll ... --l I -. - 1. . -  .  ..  . -  I .1 .. .I I . I -......I........ .11 .... -1 :::: :':::::  :: :::::: 
.... , --  ,.... .... - I...-.. -........ .g oo.f..)
,. ::- I11 :::::::: i :: :i: ::; ;;:::: :::::;;! ... -'
-:(- 7 Z::: : i:- : fl 1: :.::..:... ::::::::::::;;::: ::::: ::: ::
: ;:::::: :, ::::: .. ;;:;:::: : ::::.:: .1.
.:,:,:: ...  .i.  .- ... - I..: -:-- -(;;;::t o : wo rv; ;; ::;::;0
;;:!i: ... I-- ::::::: :::::1w:::.;:::1I.... . .... l.l`::w ....... :.. I ::::::;:: ' ). to,
r.9 Two I VC.' ' ':I :' '' . )06.10: .....;. liz).Nog.x. ::=i :::: ...p
:::::::;: .. : :: ,. " ''.
!!!;::%: , .. "........ .t. ....... i.l.: ... :-:. 1( I .11-...
-...... -1 -.--- : -.... .. -.. ..: ,......-......... :: ..... ... ... ::;::: ........... .. ..... :::....:::: .............. .::::::::;:::::::: :::::::I.... ....1-1- :=::;:
:::::::;z:::i:::::::::::::-:::--;:::::-:-- ''Ill ......... :,::::::::;::;:::;;:;:;:;;;;;:;;;::::::i::::;:::;:i:i:::::i::!!:.!::!!!:::::: :--... .................... ...... ... :::::::%:i:::::::;:: ::!:::::::!::;p;::!::::i' ".....
:::;:::: ::::::::::i::::-::;:z :::::::::":: - :::::::::::::::i:: :::--  :::::: :iii:::!!:: :::i :: ; : :: :::::: :: :::::::::T:::::::: ::::i :"" : :::!:: : :::!;:;:::: ::::::::;: : ::: ::: : .... . ... .-  . -  I11-1
;q: mm::w: :::::::::: -;::: ::: :; - : - :::  : ::::::  wz:p : p i:: : -::::: :: :: ::II... :  ::- : : :: ::: ::::::: :::::::::::dF:::l ,; :% -, ..... .. ... -  I . I . ..
----i--. .1.1- ........ .I--  :::wwwi:: q::;;.:::;::,::: ; :: . -..... - :..........  ...... ... ... .. - - .... . ". .-I ....  :::  ;::Il ::!;:;; ; : ;I;: ;:: ::,I:: ::: :;:::::::: :: : ::::  :- ; ;; 111.1 . .....I
:::::::!::!:::::::::::::::i;::!::::;;;:;:::;:i : ;::: am7 :  ii-  .. .. . ... ............... -.1'... ..... ,,L:;::;;Ll;l:;:;:;.::;!; ::;;;z; 0:Wd;:F Fll :a;ii -.  - :i  i::"Li7LwiL !!!F!!;!
:::::ii::;:::::::!:::::::::;::::::::;7:::::::::::;  - ;;:i::;:::;:;:::::::::;:::::: -:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;: :;::;:::;: q:;:m7:: :::::::::;::::::::::;:::: qm:::: : mmmm::::: mm:::: :o :::::::: :: ::;:::-:- : -:-:-::: ;;:: ..... ...-....... . ......... ...... 4: ;:::q;:::; :; :.; ::;: ;::: :
:......I......I.. ... ;:.::::::: ::::: :::;::;:::;;::;;; ::!!::::::: ::::::::I:l::: !:: :: ::!:::: . 11 ........... ; ::; :::;:::::-:::::;::;;.z;:;:!:;;::::;:::;:::::::::;:::::;;:::: ::w:;::!: ... 11 ...-.. ... ........ I ..
.1 1-1-1- I -..:::::: :::;:::::: ::::: . -.. ... .. ..... I -..
:; ;; ;;;; ;; ww : ::: :..... ,:::w:::q: ::-;::qq;;W;;' , -: :;i ::::: :: :: ::i:  ::.... ... ........... .......... , .. ... , .. ... -... ...
-I . I I.... .... 11 -.1- ::::i::7:qq::::: !: :q::w:i: :::::::
:::; ;::pw!::::;::::!::::: :::::;:;;:;z;;:;:::: ::: ::::::: :::: :::  - : ::: ::::::7 :ii:i::;:: i;:;:::: :- :::; Z::: :::; Z::: ;:;;: : ... :. .1 :-'. 1: .. -.. ...  1. o;  :: :::  :::: ::::!: ; :I.. I  - -I
:::::: : :::w::::: ::%:-:: ;::: zww:;7:- : :! = : : ::::: : ::::::::p:: ::::::w::; wq::;:::: , :, ..... , !:.., :i::: %:::: : :7::: ::: ::i: : ::: ::::-.- - -.1- .. . .1 ... I I - .... - I ....-...
....I. ...... .. I ::: -: q:- q:::: t:  :: :;: ;;: :::::::: :::::::::::::.. ...... .... ......... .....-II... -11 I 1. ...I.- I...........
.... dw:FF::;:;::;;: :::; ;; ::;;; q ': :: ::;::::::: : i::   ;i ;: $4 WEa'
:::  :;::::: :';:;:;: zz::; : ;Z'." ,. ... .... '-.-  11 -::: :::::::  :::::: ]::::
:::w:::mq::wwqmp :;::::;:: :::::::T::::: : ; ::::::: ;:;::::::::;:: ::::::;::::::::::::::;;:: : ; w W;;; ...... .......-. ....-. .
:;::: :::-: ...:. ........... .... ... ..  -- . . . .... ............... ............ .. .. ::.::: :::::::7 :1n::  : ::::: - ;:: - - I......  I. ...... ............ ....... - 1. . I. ;': : i :: :: : : ::: ;::;;:!::i;:: ::. ... ........ .. ... I.- .....-
  :-::: : : aa- : .:
::::;i::i:;;::/.' wi:;: :: ::: :7: : H pf --srAo w:; oorm  .1 om :::...I....... ::;:::: -:::: --,
::- W.- ---:;::--- -.11 ....... -:- - - -- St... ..;
.o:::::::;::::::::;:::;::i::;;:::::::;;:::-;;:::::::::::::: --:: : : ]:: PI-41
1.... :.- . ...... 11.1 I.- I I . . I .11.1. -::   I .11 - -- .1 1-11. -.p;
,...-::::::::: .:::R
,........ ,:::::w:::;:w:::: :;:: ::: :;:: ... --l- ;w;;:: :;::;:w:;; :ww:i::::::::;:::::::::: ::::;::q:=::wp::::w:,::: :
..... 111. .(-;::: :: ::: ; -: ... am :.  - I - - ,( VW- - :.
q:w::;I: :i: ::::: :: :.- .. .... -.. -.......I... .....I.... ::: :i :: :: :: q::::::: ::: :q::!: : : :: :::: :: :: :: :'  :  ' : i q O . d
lw!'!.-i=ii:=::ii;ii: ::::! i :!:::: :i: :: ::: -:!;:;::::: 7%:;..-I :11 ... -- -... -.1 11- .1 . -... 1. .11- .11 ..... :::: :::: ::: ::p :;:w% !! ! i:: . . . 11 I
 -  : 1: :; :::: 1 :7:::: ::::;:::;;F .::::;:::;::: i:;w::p::;:7::4: 7:ldlrw:FZ;:: ;::!;::::- :;;:; ;;;; :: : 
-:!'FF=::--:!;. ....... ... ...... , I.. ..... I .  - . I....... ...
..l..-:::q::::::: :::::::::::: :::!:: ::;;i::;:::;: 444:::' ::::::::: :i ,::::: . .. .. .........  I.......  .. ..... .. I..:::::: : : --.... ...... ,:.. ............  :-!:.,! ': :::::!::: :: ;7: . .....;... .. .......,-..... ......,
.... nbF::::' ::::::::::::::: ..... :::  :::: : :: :: i :;::::::::qw::: :::w:7:::::.::,  ::::z - -.. .11 I... I .11  I I .11;.. - - :::::::::: p :  : :::: ::I.1 I. : : .11
. .....I... .......I.. ..... .. 1. ..... 1. ; . -.... .... -111 ... 11 .... I.- .......:... : :; : .... .. ::Z : ::::  : ::   ;::" : ,:Li :L ot: ;::;: :::::  :;:::::::::7:: :: :: : :I. .  II -  I-
I -... . ...... .........  -..........I........ .1. I...-.... .... ........ . ...... ... ........... ........ .... ..............-.... .1 ... I'll.- -.. .." -1. 1.
 a m. ... ......... ........ -- ....... -.. ...:.::: :::: ::::::::w:::::: ::: w 7:II.". -.1 1. -1 ... I.- . ' .:-Illl .. ... 11 :qLoo :i:q : :iw i: ;;:;ww : q:: ::: ::: : : :: :: I-- .... I -.
.. .... .: p:::::W:::Oll : ::: ::;;: :b;::: ....... .. . ......... ..' ......... 11 .. .... .... -1-1.1 . -....-. .I I -.1- I.- .... 111.1 .................... .. ........ .... ....... ...I. . ... ... .. 1.1 ... :1 ::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::
:::::;::::::::::::::::: :z:;j : a ; . ,::-;1-1-1. . I,: ::::: ::: : :; :  - I I 11 .1 . 1.
... d. ::::;:;::::::::::;:::: : -::: :::' '; ': ` ' " '"931 1. ;: :ww:q::: ; q ::::;
.;;;::::::: :::::l::: : :: :: :: :::::::::  ::;  : ::: :;:::::
-....7.' .. ... .: ::  
::::;:..                        U                                   --::::-:-::... ... -:::::::=                                                        :::              - ......    -- U                                           H         H           1        .0        1:             : i;                        :f:::::;.ff                           J         K           :z-: .-.1 ......I.: : :::::::  ::  ::-:;i  ,: :::L                                                              :
......... ::t:::::::::::::t:::;:::::;:::::: ::::-:::;:: ::; :  : : : ;... .... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::!::::::::: .. ... : :::: ;:; : i :; .
::::;::;;;:: :: :: ::: ::w:::::7::::::: i::::::::! :: ::::::::: ::: : :::::::::: ::::: ..................... ............. ... ............ ... .... ,:- :: ::: :' :: . ... .......... .. ... ... .. ...... .-,.: ",:::7.: ........... "
i:worm:- -:;:m;:;:;;-:::::::::i:: :::: :: .....:...... - ::::::::: : :;:::::: :::::-1. - I II ..I4;ii p; :;%:;;  i :: ;;:; :;;:;::;; ;::; : :; ..:  :
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i:::;:::; !::- .. . ... .. .............. ...... :::::::::::::::::::!:::::!!:: :!!., ", ...... ! : ::I: :::::: ::: :::::%:  : .........d....:-. ... ............. - -,q
........ ivio-- ...I11, .... -1. "I.- -.11 -11 ... - 11 ....I... I.. - 11.II  I.- I .l..  ,:::i;:::::::;!: :: ;:!" .. . ..... -:::::::::::::!: :::: :q:  :!:i !! -! -:!! i-
:-=%::m..a- ... ;:: ..... ......, :;:::;::::";: :":;;":: ::g  ::::
:::::: ..  I 1. ..  -:::: :::::::7::--,:-'. .:::.q-1-:: .:..I... . . I i - : :  zi: ::  : ::. ... ..-... . ...... . ......
:::v
.I:.... - ::":: : ::::::::: :rq:: i::: :r:;; po ; i - ,  ; ;::::F:;;i ::::i::: . .I- .  -
... :.-.:.:.- ...... 45-1- -..... ,:i:::::::::::;::;::::: i:;:::I.1 luamax"IQ4&;
 ::;:I::::::. ... ::::i::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : :: poq.l
:::::::::::::::::::: !!: :::: : ::;:: 7: ::-........;.....I........... : :dd a ; : aa :' , :- - - ,. :::: : -.. .... ...... ::::::::::p::-!q::::::;:t:; : ::,= :::: ;; :: ;: :.... -.I.l ... ::::  : : ::::::::-.. - ... 1 I...-
.. ....... 11 ..... -- ". -.1 ... ..... - ... ::;;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::: :!: ::% :  :::: -!;: : :.::::;:: : :: :.  1 :::::::7:::::::::;::7: !::w: : :: :::i i: ;:;- :::: ::;: :::::::  : :- -:1111 - 11I..
Fuo-l-i7l!i& u6Tlip 95 iii) 1. ... 1. -- I I.... .. I I....
sluowaguturV juawainooj,i Xq sisoj loofol,l : I -9 olqt,l
.
100[DJd UOIJVOM!SJGA!Cj ;jodxa :01ILL ;OsfOJd 4sopelBueg A4unoo
U 06ed.juawnooCl les!ejddV pefoici



..a...: :4:. :4. .. - ..:..::.III::.:-.. .z.I.. . .:II..........-:.!:: iI:::...I. . .:;I:...I.A:... ..::.7:.
.:......::. . ._.1.... :.- I ...:I.I..II:..;..:.::.-::.,.:I......:I..::::::-I :I ;:i::-;:: : ---::-II,.:.I-:..II : II..II,..-:..III,:. . . . .:. . . . . . . . .......
aa. . ... . ...::aw..I.::I..: :.::...-IIP. . ......:w.i.I. . .bI.:I.......:I.. . .:IIq:m;:.I..I...Iz....::::..:qw;.:b.:.:::.:::.t:. . .-.:t:
:::::::::---::::....I.::...I:::... ::iI::.I.I....7..I:wI..:,.:. . .a-I:a.:.:I.::..I.I..4I.II.I..II I II ,.I.....,....:::.::::.:--I:wwII..:::....iaa. . ..:.:a
I.II.:..;....::z--.-Ipw:w:::::::::.::-..L.. . ......I..I....:i.II::-: i ::..w-::.:. ...:.pI:qIII..I::.::;::::::::.:. . . .:!..:.:::.
...... :. -..  IOT ISO& I . .:.. ........ I'..:.:., . ... .....I;Iprl . ::: -::::: :: :::-:-... ....I.1 -..I..  -,. :. --.q.i:l.:.,l.;...., 11"..:.. -am . 1. --
            .       .                              :....                                      .         I  ..          .    .       I         :::.        .    :::_               . - .            .        ..               -          : :         I             11   -....   ... I....I             ... .:-:: .    ::':                   "'. -         I         :   ".-                                                     :::,:::..: :,: :.: . .  .... 1.   :_I..(O  :.::    I::   -%..  -wzi  -
....I...-......I.I -I I.... ...... .1, I 1. .. .::: ::::: 1: ;:%:.. i,:.,.,_ '!- .. ... :::_... a.....
...-.:_ , ",. ....., .... -.. .-.
.:........ :::, ..:... :':::i.: .:::.:::::: - 'a-. ;:.. .. ;:... 11p: .i.,
. . .II..I.:.,I.4.::.. . .. .,:... : : . .: :,. ;. ;. . .:....,::::w..I. .:I...I.wwP. . .I.:!..:::.:4s,$oIIi-::I. ::-: ..-:::II::::::::-::,::;::.II-::i::-
. . ::000 ag$sa uRtAl _,
.. ...... qj,.q, : ;;;: , ': :: ::-:: :''.... i ,:
::.. :i .....1 :. .:,.!-..... :.-. : . -.. :.:::. I:.:., .,-:: .
.. ... ;...1-1 -... .... .. ... ...--: ::. .. :. :: ,::: ::% ':. ...: I I---. . .:.: ...... :.. i :: -I  : _-;;: I.: llw;q .. %_;::
.... I. I..... .I.. ..... ..."..... .... ..... .- Odlo:, :: Ili' 00" ""' , " "" n, : '..
::::8 'O u                                                                                                                                                                                               "    ''              ,-                         :::::        ... ::,          : , :            -        ,"                                            , , ,
.;.. . I:i:- -DI, P.. - I.....-... .::. I :wi-. :::::.:-:::::!: :::::%:l.::.:; . ....  I..... ...
-:...:.. OAPX.Ofjd. ::::: :::.--Aaap il'Wqm uit T, 1I
..I... . .(0 w u:iii;:,:iitibhlu 4::;.:
I.b .. (Mo bg I ..
... ...I1:1 ... :.::. .1911 Oil? PIAIPUI : :
. I :..I::::. ",:::":'::. : :::::- ::::::-.: -.: .." ::.-: w-:::::wI...FI ,.,.. ... l:::--t.:,:::::::--. - -l:::-:::
... -........ ..-ww: ... ll-:::'-: ..-.. .. ma_., .-:, ::.:::.-:i :-. 111..-: - . ..: -." -- ..
. .. ..- :;::,..--::t. .:: :-: : . I ;- .:: .... ....... ... I-_ .... I.: - I. :::: ::::i::w::;;:..:.::::: -
I- 1-0 ... -...:::!: ...- -. - ... I -., : .:.: i. -, --,,.Ili I.: ... 11 ... :F . .... ...... : . pp.  .. .: ... ::::.,:T-::::-:.2:m.:.. . ....  ::..
I. ...-.,I,-  :::. . .: : .: . _. - . -  ....:... .  - 1. ..'..''.. . .... .-:... 1-4:..., ::: :.
': ..". . -:.. ...:::: : -. .. :::: 1: -- I ..; 1. 1.-..l'l-.. -::::::::::::.:-::%.:- :!::.:. !- --.: -. I1: ..... I I'::::-.q.::; .... .. m ..  - _-:: --:. ,::,::: ::::
I ;,. I. : - . I
O... 1- .:I-NM ...s_ .. .. 13 - IqP...", I. %. I ... ... . .. .. , ,.,.... ,I.. .... .. -- ':m
1.  .... -.1. ,..-. ;.::: !P !--
....... ..... I.. .... ..   -. :.I_ ::q p. : :: z;: :T. 0 IsWi4sla T: ::` ::, ii::::: :::::`: :: -:::i:: ... ...  ":'':::! ::, ,jP... "'t
.- :-,b. :1 . -1 .- .. .: . lw::. : : : :: _S1
.11.11-.", - -.. ...-I.. .: i:.::.: :- i'.:, '::- ,:.:::: ... .. I - I :: .; I... ... ...
.:::.. :::-: ;4z;,"', ,.-;..:: .:11 I. .::..:. ::: . :: ::.:::::.;: :'w:I
.. .::;:i '-: ,::..,.:" I I  . .:. . :. :::::::: 1.1l.:::i.::::.:::::::--::::-::::::::: .. .... :: %
:::..., .;::;: '' . .. ;:;.:, .,:., .. I-... .. I 1..-I-- -.-- . I.-_ I
.a..., .: . I... I... - I ..: . .-; .. -:::: 11 :....i
:4. ::pd:i:: ...-..  I... . ... ::::::::- i:%':Ill .:::::: : z ;:: :l: : .::::::, ::-::::: ::::::::::::i:%::::
:::7 ...c... ... .. ::: -_ - ,:::.., .. : _... :. .;I-...... I 1:
::: ::: :: 60.11 P IWOIJ .. . I
... ..00
:;: .Api2q........ , v. 0_,:_ ....... 4:qp: ..:
:-:.. l.m: . .. :::  .-.. I.. .....-;.; :: _ .:-.-.
:,ww:::i:-rr_ 1d-'::. .. ;::- -::-I -. w::_ -:..:. . !:.. -:: :;-II!.: . I i::: : ,::::i:::.i:::..: .. ::- : ..: : :; ..._' 11 --., . ..... . .I
:: _.- :,.. .::: : ::--:::. ::: 11 .:::. . .1;..-.. : ..... ... .1.1 ..... 1. ..."... ..... ...II I I ....
1. .. .: . . ... .- .. ....-.... '' --.. I..... :: ... ::.. I I:;.. -:, .:-..: ...... I... :::: .. %:m .:.
-1 -I.... I. -.. :. ::: _:.. ...., ....II..... 11 ,, ,. :: :: .I:::: .. ... ... ........ ......... ...
.... __w::.::::-.,:::pr:..I... -.. . 11 q:_% .,.-::. :...::;.q:: . :::.w:.-m%,:,:,l_:.. .I
.... -. I I---! , ::: -::::: . ::...,- .... -. ....._ ....-:::- ::.., . .: , I lo: .... ll.:-: ... : :::
I:: :ii::: w: ". .:::::,l.W,..-.
.:::: -;.4d 4'_. 1.  -. ... . i... ..- ::..
_. .. .... .. .... '' to. .. :.- ::,,:: :::: .: . I -II"....-.::::-: - I.... ::...:--
- I - .' '':  ;::I ::;;" ;;; , :: ,;: : :::-:-,""
.oou ji ::. 00 .q):,. .I.:.:..a . .::: :. : .I:; ::::. I... '.::::,:::i;;: I-.. :-:
: "I , QAOJ JQ..Ul al.A ... : .:. ::. ... .: :.'. :: ,.:,:..
x - .., _., ... : ,:-:: - ., im.... :': ..:.:; -:,.n..-, .... ... I., ::I... :: 1. ill,:-.:71 ,:::..:::,:. ,-... . ,.: .-... -...  ...
I...- - ... -:. :: I :j:I:: : I - I. ... ....I-1.  . I--- ... - I ..  I ll-: .I ..m..
.1111- ........ -.: ...I. 1: ::::::: :: i::i.::. li :_
:  d..- . . ..., ... . I., . ..:::: . :::: . ...., . ..-",--: ".-.. :.:i: 7..: z :: :::: ....I.I...
I...". . 1:: 10.,JT '':::::: '-:::::ii,.::::w::._:..::.
-4 : .I : . 1:.--
... .. .:.:::: : :,::
, " ",, :-::.:::,-: ; , :,
... 1:1-1 -::::-::-::--...iFi;ill -- II .. ....q .... , -....
I .I.-- .. %, .,W::::
 i:::; .. 1:1 :.....  ;: -.... : .09 011911, u
-.....- .... ".I-:. I -: .: :;:;. I I- ... :::;:.-:m:..-jm-. . a .. - - -..-I. . ::::--;: :,:,.:: 1. I"::;:. -q- ... .., I ... ..
- .-.. ..... -... .. 14.1-1 - :.. i.... . - . I - .... I I .::. -:..:::- ,-:::::: , !;:::: ....I.......I......... :..:::.::;;:;;..:.'..:::".
:- -:::.: .::.;;:. 1: 111: ,::-.. --:: . .. .- . -.... .... ..::: - : .;:: - I-. ..- I
. . .I.. - .iI:: .. -: ::: ........ . .:::::. .:.-. -::,.:. :::::q:.Il ....... w. I ..-. .  
:.. :: ':::.. .: :. . i::. :: : ::t.- :....-. II--- ... ,:::: : vc1: :', --:!- -;.;--ww, ...---.-.:..-:: :!-:..- , _,.
.... ".. . I-...: -::., :':.::: I  -rw 1.111:::. -: ::..... I. . - I. ... .. ..... ........ -.,-- -.. :: :::::: ::::::%:::::,:` :::-
(Y..::: ::.: .... ::::A... 11 .. .. ... 2 ... .. .. .. ..
.... - .I.. I I..."; :;,:: , , "::;: -:::: . .... .. "' , ,,:
..                                                                                                                                        I,:-4:                                                      i    ri                     -):ii
0.444.:1 . I.-io,;;::;: I ::- Wl .
 -41".il"....1w... -:1w
..-;'I lff.;41. .)Ioo.Woalssft 
404WOTI(FOY::::::: Ippsu& 0J.0'... W. .,:i:;i:Xamf I 0 il MD,
.I... .- .. -wz 11; .:::;;::: . ....... .... -11- -- .. ... - - .. ::. : F.......... 11 .. 7;:.-.::..
'. : .-:- -04-:,,: -::::: :::: :-%:.. .4.4.;... I qq ", .; .1 .4:41- -:;_  .... .::..:..::..:::.:.."::::..::..:.::,:.:.:.; :: .....  ,:.. ..- .-- .. ... .. .. .....
... ..... :::..:'- i:;: --.:: ::: :::: :: .::: .... :.: i::: :!:::--- i-:.: -  :. .- ..::. ::: - :% - '-:..I.. .... ...: .: :::"...I.-- --.::::-: ,; :::.;: , . -z i ......-..... .....I--: . w; .:. - .
1-1 , I .-:::::-:-. :,. .. .. ....I.- :: .--: ,:::: :-: _,; ,-m.:.-.:,4: ... P-4.
...:7..  ---.::: . ... .... I'll.,.. I.. - .... .. w: ... ::-:::. .  ,::::.,.:. _.1.:... .-. .: .. .. .......I... --
.. ::p::::..l:::w::': . .... -..-..  :- I -.:.. . %.l. :- . lli ::!: I
I... .%-. .. .-. -:1 I ...... .. ....--- -i,..: . .I
:::q.. :- .. .. ...... :. I:::-.,._ I ::.- -:: ,:: I. ::.. -.:.::::.::! :.:::::!.,.o: -.
1, .:,.:: :!:!! ....:- 4.4 ... ,,:i.7:,:. :..!.:,"... .. .....-...  - I:zz -..-z. .:, ,:::4:.:. '::-:':m:-_:::" ';:::r
wb. - : . -.I-. . 1. --... I .:::::  -: :a
''. .'' __-:: :::. -::::::: -.... - :-,"I... .. -- ,% ...
Iqni -:;.:. -:_]. . ;:. ::: :.-.1-, -I---11". ..... 0-11 ... 44.... I -:. ::: ::: Ra IAJWzi:L..
... ...... :-.. ': " - ..,. I . .....-;.:. - i 1: - I ;:... -::::::: ::::::w::4 ... q:;:,.;-::- ::- : 
.. :':" - . I.::. .. .- .- I I-41'.. I...,.... I"
.....06-. ... :::::-...,:. .. . ..11i..... .....jj: ... .. .; ......::::: :: .. I :'ii--:: :::::;:' : -_ . _ :!:! -: _: .: .... .-.
......- .... I -- :-........._%_ -: .-... .--.... . ................ .am.z .. ..... ::
. :.. ::: ... I',.:: ... I'll--.. . ... ...---... . j::.::: -  . - :- ::www: 11 _;wr;..,. _F ..._
.. -. .. b; ..... i ... I- ::::. : :: :1 ',:iqq:.: :i-;.. : li::::''.'':_,.
I .:::: :::;;:: - ::::: .-1 .::.:::: .:. i::: ::.... . i.:.::I111: . .. -. I-.. -. -- i':;:-. 1.11:m ... .. .ma ;..;:;: _  
...I-_ -::._-.. ... .,__1 -14-..- 1.d ... !..:V'l, ...  I. .. : .: ... -: . . .... ::::, :::::,:: ::!i:, . ...... : '' ... . .... . -.........a. a . .
.-- I I.... .. ". .. . . ..... .. --'j. .1 .-. -.I -... . .. ... - .1.1 ... .. . .......... ll...- . ....... .. ...-
.I.... ...". ... ... .. -..,-.,_ ---. "-! i- .. ...
. ;:::: .::::; ll-.-.Ilpm . .... :::: ....%:- .... I:id ..... :.%, ...... ::::.:: -.. . I -.: -:-- :::; ".1-11.1. 1.1 ... .:. ... ::: ...I...;.......... ... ..
:. ::;::. ::::: -.:rw- .. ... 11 ...... .. 1. .... :::: ... I:- ... I ::!: --. . - ... :..--.... - , ..... I. 11.1 ... ..- .::. -::,': . .... .... .... :%. ::-,.. - a...... ,.- ..... .... . .. --.,.
. . -. - ::::: :w::::_ ...:: '::: -... .................. :, ... ...w.... I.. .  II:..I:::., .:::: I . ... " - ... I ...... ... - ..... ...... :;,..-M.-  .
.. ..: -.A..-I.-. 1. -. I.. ........ . ... .... .o ::-. _-!::w .: - :::. :...::::: ...
..-::.. ..:::::m.:-%::.. -- .,..,..., .l.. -1 I-::::....:...:;....... :,:;,: ,;.:-,:., ::. qo.:,.
-.... -:. :.-... .i..::.. ;:%:. Ii. .. : :.
, !:! :::::- - .::: . ::: - : ....-. ... ... r:.-l..:.-..l :.... .-.; :,: -I .:: ::: - ---:;: .... ,:%:-: . .
:::. _,_ :::- --, .... ..-.. -I  .. - -.
  -.. . .ia .  - .. -1 ;:::. :::.:. -' ...-: ..
b... -.:::.::..::!-::::.,: : -; -;:: .. .. W604f46., ': -:-::i::::::::::: ::::, --:: :- ,
:::. -::;;:: .:::::: .. ir' .... .::.. .. ::L'.........'. ..qns:: :11:;::;::,
.. -::. :::: _.. :, ....... .- .14 ..... ..%:::::::!:::;::::: ::::::: - ' -. -.... . ,:: -:-: pw_.;wrww ... :.Ilorr ,:. .wwr, 1: :p;... 1:1.:-:,,
;w z %:;-::;;: ::-: --:-p..ll-w- :::.. -.. ...l.:-.. _:__,_:: ... aa.z :.:: ..
.....I. ;: .... ..i:; .... _,::: I ::: .. ::!!:- -::::::-- .. :- - ..... :
.-:.w. ux . -:% .:::::. .-.".. "'
-'. .... ... I. I... ...
:::::: - : ,:::::: .-:::..:: 'i jp -11 :::11.- :_ ii14;%:i tiwr: ....:.
::.0i-p,qi!-jj.0 Tipma _,-:_--  - :: ::-: :: ::: I 11 : - :: :- :::, ; ::-
.. :: .: ::q; .. ;, "z:ix:.. ... .. :m; .:. V. :. :. .:-:;:::. %:- .: ,w .: .1; :w.I- :w..::.;
.::::.,. :lq;:_z ... ... ... .:,
-.. .1 ..", . ... .. I. ..
::::-::: %::,:  .: :: :: .. -;...7 .4 ,;m:.::-.  -_IS ...--:::: ::: c .;:-. %.
I.... ... .... .IIii:::_:: --:::: .::::-...-.. .... .. .:::: ,::i ::;:. 1% ........_. .... .. ::.::...:::: :... q: p
..::.. ... - I.:..::':::.:::.::;:::.... !-:t ..::::::: ..:.,. 1. --1 ....-- - ok. .1- I.... .. ....:.. ... .::::: .:::::::: 1: ::: : I .!:. : '.'::- .,mma.,::::"::::.,:-..:;,::::::.::... - ::: 1.11:1:
i..... ,  11- . -.- -- I:::::: ::: I ::. .--.:.:::;:: :::::... .:i. . ':  .: .: : --- ...... : -: I. :-I. :-- : -:-Iz::: - .. - i .q. .. . :..'.
".: --. :-.. .. I..%-. .:; . . ....-I-: -.p.: ::: :: .'._-:, I - - -... .. ..- _,I.
... .:.::. -: . -..,-- -... ll:-.. .--.. -'.::.-:"::: " -::::: - :: ...
..::. -:-:::,:: .::,:..:, :,': :.:. ::.:.: ::. :. :-:- --:, . . ........ .. .. ...- 1:1..; .... .. -.
_::p I -i -:4-- ... :::.:. ,::.:::i ...  : :.: ': :.. :: - z :' ... . :::. I...' .::..,.. ow I::.::::. I :_::::. .:::::. :: .:::;.,.:::::: :::,: : !!! -!.:: :::,
... :::.. . -11,:i: :--: :- - -:_ .- . . .II:- . .... ...; -: ..-.. --:.-:.' I.::-::. - -, .,.- .. ...I
. :.... ..,:; .- I :--... ::%:::::N: ...:.............. :n .. ... .. .. m...W...
ll.o. _ :.: :::... :::. :: .I.--. - .' . .:... 1 i]Wlv"Pf. kl DY "..,
-::.  -.: -0 . -- - -.. .. -..  .. .. -v -. I... . -.l. .. -
.: -;:::: - :w::::: ::.:::.:. :..:: -_ -....::: :.:. ::., ;: I- - ::..:::. ..Ipl: :I.w... -.. .SVP
... ... I.: . ": II.- I:::: I. :::4:-: - :::: ::: 1. ..-.- - -1--,:.-...:-.:. . .... " -"
 . ::::. .. - - -. -: -. I ::- i:..%. i: ::w.p::::"m::.: ,:..; :7 .. .. . ... !:; - .... " .. ... ...
..::. ::: :: - :::, : plauiginow, _,TTV, -:::-::: . .. ....... - ...
.... .-::::.17::.,:. .,:::..:::..i ::. -:::: : ..::: .::!:::- ': _:. '. .%:::. -,, ..... :.:, ..... ;.:: : :%::: : "', " " ": , ,'
.. :.,:.::: : _d.... :::: ;i:'. ::_:::.::.-::::::,: i::.. _ ... ::..-
-:.  i;:... I_. ... - I :: I. . I --  I::::: :::::- .::::::- i:-:m.::' -': . -.::T:
.:.:..: .-- . 14:4_.4. I.-I'l .... ... ..... -.. . .m.: .. ::% , ::. ::...., ... -_:... :,::% -: . - -: ,:::: . _
_1. .... .I------ ,- .... I ..... .... ..... . .. .w. . .. - .. ...I... I :: - --- . -;!-:.:--:::. :::::::;::!.::::
-'. .-:. -:-: ..... ::: ......... ... :. 4-.
,. :::: -_ ... :.:1-:: 1:2tyfddd -Iuuq":(b . ::: `: ;:, ", :., ": ` : --; :: ;;,. !
- .:.T, dwtw (O.),jii;!. :.:::::.  ..I  . :.l...--.l-.!,
:;.:;.: -.:::,. ... ...m....I-m....., ..I.... I--- :: ... 1: ;. .- - I :.:q :;. .:.. : ::..,-::::".:i;:::.. - :.
.. 1. . :- : :: ::: .... I .1 ':.I ::::... . ,., '. I....... :..::) -r .... ,::::::L::. :::.::-::. :.z..:!.:: ::,  . I---. : _:_.
,:: :.    I .:::::1 I I   -                     I _ ..    .           I    -           I        :::::.               - :                      ,            1    ::.",,. -1 ...                  1-1 .... 11.1 .... ....              ...:.    ..          ........ .. ....... I.    ....-                ... ::-             -.-    -I.:
... :. .-..I:.,- - ::pp - :.::: !,::;:.! ::: I:::..: " ....44  :. .::: " . ::z-.: ::-:: 1: i. -: ::..
..                                                                           -I    -                        ...         -       ...              .. ... I    -           1:-    .        -        .1        , m.          :....                    ::                                                                                                               ...-        -.        . .- _               ... ::!:::    :   i:-.: :                        i    :::-:    :::
.11..-::-:-:. ,::: : ;: -:: ::' . - :- ::
.:: :. -:%.1: ....I... ::; I ..  I! :.  .::: o s.a:"qtlsq.ptrq , ..
._. " . ;:::II -1.-- : ,::;:.:  :::: ::. i_: - 000. z:.I::;;. I I I ::: :w". I II. _. : j.
.. .1.,.- I ::.. -:-_ :%_ i. :  .. w I....  -- I --I--:::. : ,.I:F::..... :IF-:l ... :::::::- ..
.,::;:m::.:l:::';I1: ......:: ::::. . ,::: ,::::-:: :1 ::-- ::... i...  I....
.1--: :::: .. :-- :: .. ..... .....:
.. ... ..-.. .. ...-..... :::: .,:;: I.I.-.o.... :z I I-. I I ..::,.:;
.::. I . I. osiml ... ..-
,,: -:: :, :::::::::
.::-_-::  - . .-.  .- I-I.. "-.:... :::::: ,::, :'...: !:..(o).
 ia:::;:'. ..wwp. .l.w:wp -... I ;;_ I... ::::.-. ....... .:. ::::;::::-P!. P.'21F.... ... ...... i "_ .... :_-.. .. ..I-
::i' -.. ... : :... ::. ... - ,-1, ....I.--...: I.-. -:1. r.. ... .-l. ...
 -- :;:. ..:;: .,:: :- -lz; - -.,: ..;.... ': .....!.. .. .. ..... I__ :::: .... -p: -.-b !.... . .. . .. ...
-- ..I::: ... I.. ..: - .I :... -: ...:: .. :: -: t! -. --:..::::
... :::.-:. :,, go,f,Apljwd-.... .. ........ ....1-11: ......
. ...-. . ..... - ... ......J-: I ::_: ,.-- _:..:: I I-'I-
-:: :::::._::a .: :::.--.-I....,-:. -: .,.::. I _A a.......  -.. - .. :::- :. I -. I..-
.... . ..... ..  -.......-...... ......, :.:_,:,:::: --::--  ': ". -. -...
:...: .:.:.:.:.-o  "- ::: . . .. ..... ..- ...... -1 :. I1. .. I I.. ... ::; I  :.z,: :::::::: :.::.. -:0 ... _ -. - .._.. .I-.
.... .. .... ... ....::.. ... ... I -_". :-.... ... .... ..  :.. 1.11.:kr. --
. .- . . .. .-  .- ": : .::,-.: :-
:.... CIT. SIOU419pp 431 : :: -: ::: ...-:.,;..:: ... :.: - :I : -. --.. :....-. ...I.. ab __: ..:-:..:: %%: ._:: ::: ;::::.:, ::.
.. .......   . -:; . a :.: I :;:.:; ;;;:.. . I:::_ %: I : :r, ...... . . ....I-
.TO, -. . :r. i :1:::-:: -::-::: ::::m:::-.,:mm
.-... - -- I --- ... ..,I --.---.. . .. -.l.. .11'.. I.... 11 .. ........  ", ::::: ...
..... I--- .... I I -- ......-... .. .......... :1 ;:.:::::::..:---...... .;:-:: :.::.. I. I _:;.. -::- - ----,----
....--... ... :::.. . --.1. . ... .. I-: :::
-         .     I-           ....          .     ..,.                   o... :::.    '-                                                                     :-      ,                                                                                                                     ....: ..   "::.2 . .- ,4::: ...   _:_   -    - :  :: ::::  ::-::::  . -  -. , W-  i: --:- :l-::::w:    : .: -
:,:O!NVA..,j9:.Solpt2.ai:tj.iajw: : -:::,!-..:;%. I.:,: ...b.. .. ..."'' '.::..,..'.-.. :;::;:.:. _1 ... .:.:- .. : :.... . .,p --.. ,,.::;.%: ... : :.  _ .1. . --
..... :::.: :.:w:,..
I               .- , ... ..I,                                                                                                  " ,::.:.::::::.:.U             tp      p    lq         .." :.:.. ......   .   .:::    ::!    - -:::..::   :t::     -                                                                          :      :       - -        ,    -    :%.:::         ::;:-              ::,:         .    .:        1.    ::
...-:::: .: :: I .:wI.:;: q:w "w: .:;:; ...I-
....  .,Ili::;.::: .... m:m:::_ .::::: ...... i::::. ::::: ::...: :; .-ma
.-.P..... I.::::: -..::, : ` :::,:: 7,:::::"-: ;;:;: :::;:::; ::;:::::,::::::`::,::::`: ::ii::
::.,:.,; om %.. -:: -::-:::: . . ....... .. .... .. .. ... ,,t
I' )"; =: :' ,,U' 0, ",Ir 1, ga, '.(q - :::: : _.
::,Oml 4IAOJ :. -- ;:7. :: WWU,ODP . I . . . .),:: i` "' , , " , , , , , : :::":! : ': : i ::
 $Au kmo ::!oUAX;q, :" :::':':b .... .d" 4..--- .....'.... ... 1-1 1: - .I W...
11111::., . . .... ...... -. - :: ... -::::: . ; :.::: ,TION(q). :ooo.,O,O.Z.$8a:..."..,..:::::.I; .: ... --::. --;;wwll :::;;;,:: ,::.::: -; ... I.;.;:.
.... ..:..: ..... ................-...... . I---. - .::. ::
;:.. -;: .. .... I ... ... I....... I... .. ...... Pi .......... .. ...... 1. 1.4..... ..... .1, ......... ''....... .... ... _::.
.... -:-_: :;:: _qq-:;: '. :::_ I -  I..... . -Ll:::- -11:11.... 1:FW.". I -:.,
:.:.,II ::. I ::- - ;:.:: ..::::::::. :::::::::.::.::::::::::.:::::::::::: .:' .:.. .: - .. ....... .  _.-:::.:: i::::::::::. -;;,.''_ . . .....:
.-..-... ... .... F.. I.... .... .::::: -- I .-.l.. .:.I-!. II mz: I .I : .. I---. ..-I....-.. ... - .:; ,- ;, , :. :-.:..:. 1: ::: : .::i:::: ::::::.:: ,::!! - -. - :!:
. . . I o::_  .. ;;::; ::. ... ::::;:::. ...:mm::::: -:,:::::N . ;::t: - ::!::i :;;,:.: ,.: ..... .... .. .::. -w -:.. ..: .. . .. -:.. z. - .- .::: :::: : I. :;z; . ..... ,q:z-.-.qzp, .. ... :::.:. ...mmm ... .... ::;
I. .-1 I... ....... : : I ;%:- ". ::::.', :..: .... ... ... ... . .......... . ......-... -.1 .- :. - : -, .1 -..... ..: I. :'::::::44:::. :; 4..-.::, .,..7;z:::: -- .. .. .... . . ... , --- - .-....
'' ,"''m:,:: : :::-::,:;.,;..::::.:-.:.::::::".::::: .. ::: .:.4::.
11 I - I qq .... ..: .-p -- ":_- --::._. .- .... .. . .... _.. .- , q .--- -- ...I.. ... -.l. ll-... -1 .....". ........ I., ---,-.:j .1 ..::.. -
--. ,!:::: .. .... .::::. ..:b.u.. .... .:: -, ...  IL -m - - I. - .. .. - --
:::: :- :!: --,::.: .. _....", .... .I`-;du :; ;: : :
..... .. . . ..  ....::_ ... : - I.... 0:wwI.. . ... . ........ -::.-:::::l:-':p  .1;::_ ::::  :-- _ . ::::. w-..-:.:.
.... _ -
.. ".. .. - -. .. .'........, .TM`-... ... .. ... ...... . .... -:::: -`i::" `-"; :::::, "-;:::::, :
I-... -. ;:::,..;;,. --.-.
.. --AA6 -1 I--- .1.11 ... '..,. .......
-. ... .. !AO'd J-P!Jcl N) :, " :: ;, ::P " "' , , ""..:; ..q.:,: DI:a
:p                                 :w: .                 ....I..,-.,    ---                                              .1-1  I -    _  ..                                                                                           1:                  ::;  :,:::P.T  RTJW00 - ::::Atii6b  M O   0): ..    , I ...... ':: 1-1 loloussfi.0) "P"' ;,F,.Tp!9 X ..-
::,:I:::. ;;ww 1:1 .ii:q ::. .--:::.::" w:::::::::l 1. ::: :: ::.::%::: ..::mb.! ..... ...... :.. - 1
.::: !:i -- I.. ---..... ....... I-. I.. ...  . .... ... I I. -.... '' ... ....I- I... .. .-.....I
.: .... .:- . -..: : ..:::. I...... I- .-. : :t aa . .. .... .:, ''...
..-.. - -1 . -. . -.... .. ... -- ....-.. . - -.1:- . ::: ...
:::: I.  -....l.. ...I.., -.. .. F. .: .... .: - . -;. ,,;._:-wwpp_-- ..... iiiiii: iE ... :ii!::i:3 bg :: q).:
:.::. I 1q, .:;: .,;..:... .: .-.. :%... . i!:. I:.  !- .-...---...- z..- 1: - .. i -.. .. ... ... ....  I ....: 
:. .. ...... A:::: . .. ......... 11-1.11 .. I----.. .:.Jj .....-.....-... ..a_-:- -:: . . ....I--  I - 1. - .:::: ...:-."..".... . ::.(. :::: ....
.I-.. : .: ; - -. .: : - I ... ow ... ::,. lw:: .:; - :: ::...:l.:.....,;::: -:j .... ... .. ... : ::: I.
low p. : .:::..:::..,- :.. ...-. .I .-1. ..-.:   -;-..-wt:%. --... .... .. ............ ....... ... .. :..:,::::;::  - :::: :::
... . .... .-. I..-. -- I :::.  " -.., -........ ::.l;l..,::,:..,.l ... :.,:.:".. I..,
., , ,.. ... .1.11 : ;::: :.: :::: .;..:ma. ,'mp  q:. , .:,;::. ..: ''.-1-1-1
...-;-..I.. ... 1:  ::: -: I:-:;: I: -.;::, 1. .d- -.. .:..:: ... ::.':::::-:::::!- :-:::.:I... ::.-a :": . ..... .... I.......-..... ... - I
.. .- :: :4,.... ::..::... 14:mp.. .,... ....:.:F "':.. I :. .:. . ::::::: :::.
.. ....... --..I---:- - :: a.w .1 . mwz. . mm;-.
. ..::::;'...-.. I. : w: 14'.,: ... - Ii: :- "-.:w..:l .. I- I II---- . ;:::. :. spi.. ...:::._ . lb:%.
--.. ...1- - .11 1.  ..:..:. ".:;: . ... I -.... ... .... ... ..... I. .- .. ..... ll-;::..,
.....::. .- --";:: p. w. : :  - ...... w, ..... 1: ... ::,::;::::l ;.;::p:': .:: .::;:.
,:;::.,:, .:.. . ...I.... . ..:.. . _': ...... ..F  :_ .::-I.... : -... _..
A.. .::,: ,:;,: -21t qmq,.:l;qw"_::m:: .... .. ....... :::2 .. . . .....I......
: :... PPR"il-KJO 9.: -11
::.:::-: : :::.. .. !,.:",I-..: I... mom..: ::--...., I I Y4wa.:.::ii:i:.
..... -1 .. .4 I.  . MR!.. :i -::: :; 1: - ..  -:
.. .... I.-, ... 1ll...:::;_, - I..a.. ..,q... A:.
-- I-...1. ..... . -. -.. .. .. ..I... .. .. -:::.-.p -:: ,- ...I... zl- -:::. I - I... 11 .....--- ... 111.11 ...-....".11 1-11,
......-....-.. _::
.. , I;A 1!1 dIU0 :1.U
....  I. .:. '01 ':-. .J.I.V..Uj.,Ul.,.!!!::::i!:!::,!-.010ul, ..: d ' ,::: 6V]ii::
.;:::, _:::: : .....:4p!Apa:......!.. ......... .... -0 I . P.. I j.:. -.46b6d"o, Z'S . .. .... 'WADIP :. 03:::.V.:_ ....-
- :; ....... ;d.::.,... I... ::::::: -m::::.-:: '- :::.:.:.. --:;:::-!! -:::Q sn!!!: :,!Ii!T . '.. ...tu ': U'l.::..
...I. ..... , - I.11 I  ::::..,. I. :. II ... ... .1, ....... 1: ::::::  i.:.:. 1: i,-::.:-.,::'::: .:.,.::_,:" .:::::: .1 -:::. . .. --!t%- ... :::.:-.-:: -. ... ....... ........ mb:.It-...- . .. ...
-z .... i.;:: .. .::..:.:: ... ,; ;.. . :::: .. - -... . .- .:::: .I :: :. ::::.: : :::. I-.. I 1-1 I  - 11 I -....  .:::: I.::::: :_ .... b. - , ,:::: : -_ -::::::..:::-i:::::::::-::. 4:::-- ::..:::. - -:::: :
...... -  - .4 - -I., ...... I.:: ...I.... -..::::: .:.:::;-,;: --: ::::: -:;:: - ::::::::::. -.:-_l::.::r::::l:. .:.:::- -:::::: :: -::::. ::::::-:;;
....:.: . .:::: ..-I -I--. ..::. :::,: ::: ". q:,.:.:; ,:::.::.:: :%_::.:: :::.:::_-:::..- .:rl. "l.::::;;:::;:::,::::.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:I .:,::::::l::::::::::
-. .,-.';t I. ::  , -:-.. I... ..  ::q. : :::: -1 - - I-, I...  .. ; m::'..::. -:: I, I:- I I - .. .w:.111::.- ,- . .. I
-j:..-.::m......%;.:., '-w ..,..:..,:., .... ::::..::::, , ..::.'-::_'. ".011--- ... :. :, v.,, -_ .:: ... .. ,;;..:. .,:'.,:::::.:.;;: i:::::.:: -:-::-- :-n. I -::::::i:.: :  is _-:::.!.:,.!":- ...... :::._..b:b.-.
.. .. .. .. . .:.. -.. .. ::: .... _.: ::;: : I:: :: "::: ,- " .,;;. :.;:: m_:w  :::: - ". ::::,- .:::;:::- ::::::::::::i::::::r;:', ff ..
. ..... 11 ...I......... ::;::::;:::: ;-.
. . _..I - -,0:::::::
,....-....I-.p I ::: .. 1: -::: . . . .-:-..-:q::.:: .::; 7:  -:  - ::.::: ; ::m':,... .:mv 1: .:;:,.-:. ... ::::::.:,
..    ...... ..I I... .                     ....   - .    - ..                                                                                                                                                                                              :::.,                                                -     ,   :-     z:.''.:.q.m.::,. 1, 1:1 ...                      I:i:::: ..   .::: ...   .   - .   -    -.    .: .-:   -     1:   I.:_  -111.    ...  I. .....  . .........    ...
Iiim ,Pio "..-......--- . - ..  ...1 ;
..:::: : : `._:::g:::w::-..: ::..: I: I:pw!p , ... 1. ; " : I... 11 ... :;::--; , =_- :::: . . ;.. ...,
:-- -::-::::% :_ 7 Od:..:":;; I '':::;, ,::...':'::.:::::........::;...:,::.:."..:: .... 11.14 ..I....  _:w: I w: ;:, ::. ::. .,:. w; . _.. ... ... ........ .I. . ....... .... -1 .... - . .... .... I.... .-
_:,::::. -.::: .::. ;w:1_.... .... . ........:::!:,.:::::::::::::::::i::::::.::::::::,:::::::,..:::.. ::i:::-:::..:.:::-:-::::::-::::::-::::::-: ... ::::: . ::::: :: :::
:q-:::._::;.:,.....:::,.l ....... ... : ..... 1''. -_ j . ...::-.-.
... .. .. .... :::::- ".....%. :... ::;:I.- -:::-:::::::::,--:;:::Ii:;;.: ::- ::, --.. I ::::. . !- ...... .:---- .-., .-
.SPIUMOo lo-gla:, ..... ..2 '_.. ..Pwl;:u PPM:q:w, :::.,: ''::. ''.,;:.: . q _ I- : . ::. I -r. :,-:,q:m..:.-:..::..: 17:%:::::'. ; :::. - I..wrl
iii..-,  : .:::;;.:..::. ::-:::., .::: ::.tm-% li... . I t . I. .I.i....:::::::::::..::-i::::::. ,:::::: :.: ;::i:m::.:.V.-::m-.. -:-!i .. -, : - ': -':,';:::::::'.':.:
.::::::::::.:::::::.::.:::::::::: ... ::i:::::.:."::.:::..:::::::::::.:::..
::,bf:165vii ... Olu ... ::-: , ::::, ::,:"  ::`:::: :: ,: ::::,::: :: , : ::: :: :: :;,:::: -:::,:::: : : ::: , :::
... .. _: ..... :.::p.q.... I - .-:- ..: -::::::::i:::::::q:::;:l ::- :::-:.,
I---- - ......-.... ........ . . .. : -_1 Im.-... .... ... .... .11-r ....-... .-I.
::-'_I - ..,'I i-- :.::::::::::::::::i:::.i:::.,:.::::::,. -: -::::::-: - ---::-::  -t: -:.:i::--.:
--.::-:::::;, 1...... ,:%::_.:%.:;: :i i::::'::::-::: -:  %i :-:::::::::: -,:i:m:::...-:: ... :.::2:::z:%:- ... ::::%:.--:!-:::
-.q-1, I ,- 6... .. - I. ... ... i-::-::::::,_::d:,.: . ..... ::,,.. ::i:::,; . ....... , ... ,,,v: ...... :::::::,.,-: -,::---: ....
.,pnIvA jp.."#2.01'. 1; ..: ... ;;..'::::;:. .Ipd ...0....., . -.- .... .. ........ .. ..... 1. --:::.!. I ..- i:,w.., ...;::- www: : wrw:: :.:
.: : :.. P.-: :: PAPT Wt J MOWK ..... 1. _..
O.. :-  _ I.....  :.... ...... : - 1  . - ::  ::: . Irw:. -, :: I ... ...... ... I. I..; ... 1-:.::::%. I'- w. ;::: " :: -::::::---::::---:::-- -: I:::: -
.1 .. ... --: :::::  .. .  - II, I....I.. ....
:,::::  :..: ..... .. :::qmm:-..m:mL ... ::,:::_ ......... ......... I.
::: ::.: - :::: ... :: ::, ::_.... !: I I .-. I .-d:.., -- ...... ......,.::.:. ....,
.. ... .... .I ... ... -l. I ow .:: ;;:.::: : : :QQI:Ss .q.
I -- Ml ISI jq AILOTAMIJ J: L. i::]i:.., .......
"...-.:.-:w-.. ';::-:-:.-: ::%. .,:,: W,00,3.sn, , ,'.1,,",::::: ,::::
.:: . b,-:p_ .;::: .::;, 11 :..:::i.::-::::..:.::.:::-::.::..:z:: ... ::.':::!i:,-:%:: i.'::::,
......u -:"..l-W-:: :::_- ::: :::
I -;. o.; ..... 11 ....... :.. .......... :.... ..... - -::: - :!!:% .:.!::  . :::
:: : -:: ..:--; ... : ::;:- -: .,.::::- .:z,: ::;.:, :r.. - :.:- ::,l I...... ........... ........ .. .... .. ::.-:..- :...... .,:%
:r.l:-w:,.. -.11 ::i..- : - .:::;:.. 7 ;::: ': : :::: -: ::: ., ." w; ... ;.. -w - I qm;::. . ::... I-: ... .... rr..... ... ;;.I.::.:::;:::::::::::;:::::,:.:.: .... ... ..:%:: . .... .:.: .... :: . :...;:: ... ... :.:...:..:: ,::::::-:.,.,:
:: , ..:,::. . - I 111::: :::::::::::':::;.::. .,,-, . ::. -  ::::: I :::::::: i:i::::! :::-:::: ,:.::::: :'%:: ::: - :: :!: ::: :'ii :.... ..: -" :::, . .. ' " - :...... ....... .: .: .: :: :.
.. I. "-.,:--::-", ..... -:,-iowm.:- - .:::. ...::: ...; .... I .- .... .... pw:.::-.:m:.::.:,:::-:: :! ... : ::.: ,:...; .... .a... -a. _ ::.. - aa.. :::.
:.. - :;;! - :. -- ,-:: -::::: :: :' . I.:. 11--l'. -ql:,:..,:.,,:,::-::::::- ;-:. ,:!-- .:::.! ,!:: ....... :wprq,..-,., :::--.,.:-: .... :-!:,. ,z: ... . .... :::-!: -........ . ....-'... ..... , ,-
:. : ::, _::1. %.: ", . ...... _:. ....:,::." :.. ' ... 1: -w_ : _;: ....... qmF"._qrl,- . F:F- : .w:..l.-..:r..: ::::::: ,:::, .. ..... : .. ...... :,, '. -::.., ',:t: - z:_ . ;.... .1dam ... ::mmr-:!-;  . - . ....
:! . i -::: .. :.. ::: i ...,........ . ... 7-,:_ ....... ... %::.. 1: .......... ',dz... :i-: --: - :::: -:::. :::;:... .:::::::.::::::::.::,:::::::::-".:::::::! :.:::. - ::-::::: I w::-l::- . --: .a. :': :.. I% 'm ... 1: i:..
::,:. ,::::, ...1... ::.: ...:... ::. :.. -:,I.. - ;' ... ... .:. I -'.41- " ::::: - l-::::::::,:.i::L::. ,-, ..... -.. -- .,:..:.::...,.::;::.:..::::::: .;;:7..:_ :,:::::. ..-; z... .: - :::.. - .... .::I. . ..::::-.. .:.
-.. .. .. .... . ........ I ..:::. -::;::,,::::i:::.::::-- -- -:-: ..::. .-..b:
:: .. --i. . : : i _:.,. ::: z...::: :.i: . :::, :: :: ::::::%:::::i::::: -.I.... ;. - ..'' ..:.--.: , -.:!: , :- --
-.: I ..:.: ::: ....... :-:Li. - ..:: .... w .: 1.  ,.:..: .. ;  !-_:::;:::::.. :: ::11:2, !:,!,::, " , ,, "- - ;:::::::- ::::!: -:::; :,!., " ::: :!: ::: :!: :-:::::: --: ,;;:- :- -; :::: :::- ::
-I --. .. -:-..- .... ..I::::, 11I11 ;: ;; ; ;; ;::: :::  ;:::. :1 :: : ;, ;,.-
... ..... . .-.... . -:.::,.-WM.  -.: :.;::::: -r:w- "Pr ...... .. ... ..I...... 1. I--- .... .... I. ....... 11, ........ I.:::::::::: :::i:::::;:,:-::;:-::.:
...-...::::..::: -: :: -.,I.. :::::,:::::::: ,.0,-:-:-:
- ...,.... -...:..:.::., .,... ... I., II .: . ow;...-:i.:. :.:..:;.:: .,:;;::" .:-. -......
.... .-  I-- :: ..; ., -- I.... ...I- -." .:..,-:: ...-I:. "...q:.:..
..; .... . .. zaa .. ---. -... I I. ....... ..... . ... --....''- --.... -... . --
:..--All.., 1. " ::: ".1 . .... : :. ON : " ... 11:i;; ]Ji::1.4
AOJ, It 0IV :.::.::::::::::::::;,:::::::: :::%:-: :::, -:::':I..... "'.... .. ... 11.1 ........ ...::::. -1
.. . -.. . d-  4.: .: ... w. :
..:; . oji&j : :!: , ciAd
.. I.  1: . ::-1: ...... --%. I.. A.. , _,-Q3 lVAQRVX,::, ll::::! :!,:;r:::;.: ...4.9
1 1:I:.:- z:::;::; :;;: 'Mj.j, Qv";:
-- .. 1.:.. . .. ..... ..I.... ... b. 1. . ::: :.I-. . :... ...... .... . :: .. .. : -...... 6.0 I I $..... 11 ......: ':: ' :::-:: -:- . ----:.:q. I. I :::::. . ;z:_1 ;;ww'... .:I;::: I. :: ::::%::'.,...i4%:::,::::i::'..:....:m:.:_ .:::m:,:; ..::::::.l : ::: -:, :::. . -.... I.- .:: ... .. -:-.:iii ...--: :::; . j:: .: :::'::::: '::i'::::. ::ii
...",
;..: I ::,;:::: : ::_: -_ . -: I. ::: ...:-. . ::. w i .. i:- :.:..: .......,:::: .:..:::: ...-_-- . .... I I. ... ... .--
:-::  - .wr:F ... ... ::;..:::.:;.:-,-':....-... .. ...... :. :..:..::  .. :-.::,,: :  !:tt,. -: . i:,:a, - , Opftt j.
::  .. I..:::: ... .. .... ... : .. -- -;:: .... . -.--
:'.  ...'..:_::::                   It:::        I         .       .           ...           ..  .          .                                                                                                            .                    :    ::.:   -.-! -  -                 !- -         - -! -...:-                                                                                      :         I -... I .  .  ;:....    I:-   ;:-- :.  :  - -  ...  -.:  ---:...WOOZ_sfl:,      :m.  ::;:.:  
", ._ _-...... .......I.... I. I. ..:..:. .-:wpw .:: ... -Iqq: 1. llq::%: -:,.::.
.- --:- -:-...-I.... . .1....... ...-I ..::: .: _ :::: I:::; I :.." -  :;:::::: :::;z:::::':'
-: ::. . I : -.II::.::: ". I:: I. I ;; qq: ..... .1 ... ... .... - -.1;_:-::1 1. 1: ::::: ::I::::.
.... --1  -., l-w::,_.... ::. :m., ,.. ,:.::..: ':,:.,: s3lJOAN.'  ;
-I...-. .... - ...I..... I .., ...-.. :o. 1.1- -.11 .. .11 q.:.:..,:., .,:;:'.:... :-,:, ... :p : - ::::-- -:..  . :.... ... ::::: .:::::: : ::::::: ... ::... ..... :::- ::.
,. -1--. .. I--- - -. f.z: I: -:-:,..:::::::::::::::::,:::::::::-::::::::- .::: . .- : ::: -::::: 'i::::;"-:: ....... ...- -:
.. . - -.11 .I .... - . . ..  . -  - - -  I...... -11..... I .... . ....... .... ..........I...... - I....
.1- . :::.  :::: I-: _.. - -..,.... . --I -I - I I--- .1 - I  .. .. " -... P11-W.-4p;f ..... -- 1. -:::: ::-:7::::- :::::::.:;i::::::;::: --:i:...--.:.:-:;mr ...  -.
:::':i:: I I - 'i:.',I :-I-.: : :%:: - -..... ... ...... ,::.;:.: :::I::::::: :: ll, :.:::: :: ...." .... .-=:!:: :. !: ':" " " i "
,.:., ....;... !::: ';_': .: :;.. :a. :... . . ..... . ... .: --:
.::.::::::!::l::::::::Aio.]Ag, "' "' '.. . .''.. . ... ....":ll::-:l.:.::,::::.::;.::l:::..::,:..:: !:::::::::( 6 -qj& . .
..Ii::::::::i:::::::i.:.::..:.I .. I. I.... I :.:: I::!:.:!: ---:.::::::' :: :-.:. z. .... - ---
...:.-.,::..,,::: :,R:J%4&%,:..:::.l::,:::: ';: ::i:p::-:'l ii:: : .:. i- ... ... j::...:mm.-z-....:::,:: !:: ::: pp qp
i:::::::, :i:::: . . ....... I.: ..:. -:... ..... ..:::;.-1: :::: I -.._ .:m.. ,:::::.::: :..:
::.::::.::.-::.:r,...:.":::::::.:::::- -4:11, ... .... --:i. ... :., 44: ... ...d ... 1-400.:." 4.... -- -... .1_.--::::::  :::::.:., - :: I - -.. I -.. .... .. .. .. ... .I -..
:-::: .1 ........ .... I.... I._.I...  I..... . . - ll-- 1. -- --- I
.- .,:::-" d';
a. ,::::'::;::: -an Cjo2jjlu
::FokP.0 NV 409:...
.. S.R.T. ... _3 -::Pptu w:iil;)luai.paoia:::.,:.,:::.::l., w i: i!F;-
:: .. i :, :-. . IFA,:R"WQ3.-::w-::p: I.:. JRMIPM..Xa:-
... I .: .- - - : :- .,
-. . .. I.. :r .z. .::.:-  ::-......-:......l. . ...... .-.. .1-...-:,-: -:- -:: .;:, :::::..:::.::::.:.::::::::::;::,:::;::-:":::,:.:
-:  .: ... . ... _ -. .:::: -. I:::... - -- -.1 ... ... ..... ..... .... ....... ... I. ..... ......... -...
... .. .I::r::::::::..::'::::::::i::;.' .... ... .......... .....
AiDIAO-d JOUd PUt' SPO!qlgW IUOWQJnOOld IOJ SPIOIISOJlqj, :Z 9 glqt'l
II
lOGfOJd UOIjB09!SJ8AICj 70odx3 :011! I 400[OJd 4sopeldueg :4j;unoo
'..
ZL 060d luewnooC) losleiddV 10afOJd



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 73
Country: Bangladesh                                                               Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Table 6.3: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
~~Expenditurea Caegory                          AmTount in                    FnnigPretg
-US$    m illi        .......n.......
1. Civil Works                                      0.34    :::90X
2. Goods:
(Compters anid Comiputer Networking~
Equipm:rent, VehiclIes. adFurniture            3.00        1 00 % of fo reign epniue
Books and journals                                         100% of local expendituret (ex-
factory) an  80%'of locail
expenditure~i
3. Consultants' Serv6ices and Trann:~                           100% (net..... .of 
(including~ ASYCUDtA+11m& theusystern feces)
4. Matching Grants
:5, Incremetl: Staff and Operating and               OD6        100%  FY99  and EY200:0 ::80%
Maintenance                                                    FY2001, and 60%t tereafte
6. Uniallocated                                      1.30
TOTAL                                               32.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 74
Country: Bangladesh                                                          Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
233
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               6                      16
First Bank mission departure (identification)                               07/23/1997
PCD finalized                                                               01/13/1998
Appraisal mission departure                         04/10/1998              07/01/1998 '
Negotiations                                        06101/1998              04/23/1999 6
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       05/01/1999              06/15/1999
Prepared by:       Ministry of Commerce              (PCU and MGF subprojects)
Bangladesh Tariff Commission      (PATC subproject)
National Board of Revenue         (CM-1 subproject)
Preparation assistance:                               Consultants:
Japan PHRD Grant                      Jolanta Hess, Laurence Slee, James Owens
United Kingdom CTF                   Andrew Singer
New Zealand CTF                      Anthony Mort
IDA Budget                           Naser Wahid, Abdullah Wahid
TA-VI/ETAC subproject                Faiz Khan, A. Raliinan Khan
Bank staff who worked on the project                 Specialty:
included:      Charles Draper                        Task leader
Alfredo Dammert                      Asst. TL; MGF subproject
Khurshid Alam                         Asst. TL, Dhaka liaison
Syed I. Ahmed                        Lawyer
Nurul Alain and Zafrut Islam          Procurement
Mozammal Hoque                       Financial management
Mohammad Sayced                     Disbursement Officer
Key advisers/reviewers:
included:      Agustin Litvak and Kevin Casey        Procurement
Anthony Byrne                        Financial management
Fakhruddin Aluned                    Process
David Mead                            Chief Counsel
James Hanna, Arindam Das Gupta
and Luc de Wulf                        Peer reviewers
Barbara Kafka (chair), Surendra
Agarwal, John Nash, Garry            On-request Quality-at-entry Panel
Pursell and Shekhar Shah              convened by Jonathon Brown (QAG)
15 Appraisal rescheduled to allow tine for additional preparation.
16 Negotiations deferred to allow for expansion of CM-1 subproject (replacing ADB), for advanced progress to be made on
selecting the four subproject contractors, for Cabinet approval of the RAMP, and for an IDA quality-at-entry QAG review.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 75
Country: Bangladesh                                                            Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
(includes detailed procurement plan, financial management arrangements, and project monitoring formats)
B. Bank Staff Assessinents
Supporting the Customs subproject
e June 1997 staff note, Tax and Duty Free Access for Exporters, Thoinas Maxwell, SASFP.
o  November 1997 working document #1, Special Bonded Warehouses and Customs Process Reform, Anthony
Mort, IDA consultant assisting BDXDP Preparation.
e  November 1997 and April 1998 final aide memoires of supervision missions of the Sixth Technical Assistance
Credit (including ETAC subproject).
Supporting the Matching Grant Facility and Other PvD Support
* Report on Survey of Exporters' Needs, Wahid/Ahmned/lHuq
e  Potential Demand for Product and Market Developmnent Support, HIess/Slee
The Matching Grant Facility, Andrew Singer
e MGF Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures (3), Singer
M MGF: Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures (4), Hess
o MGF Development of Project Pipeline, Wahid
o  Product and Market Development: Detailed Project Description, Hess
C. Other
Supporting the Customs subproiect
*  March 1996 NBR document, V'alue Added Tax towards the Year 2000, S.I. Khan, then Member VAT.
*  Various reports prepared by or for BGMEA, Chittagong Port Authority et al. on container handling, bonded
warehousing and customs procedures.
9  April 1998 draft Concept Paper, Revenue Administration Modernization Program, NBR; and comments by IDA
peer reviewers Das Gupta, de Wulf and Martinez.
*  July 1998 report of the World Customts Organization participation in the IDA mnission to commence appraisal of
the Project, I.V. Mazorodze, WCO official.
*  Users Guide for diagnostic study of a Customs administration, A Stepping Stone to Managementfor Change,
WCO, June 1997.
*  Template of Customs and Excise Legislation, incorporating interniationally agreed Modern Customs
Management Practices, Anthony Mort
* August 1998 Technical Assistance Project Proforma (TAPP) for a Tk. 4631 lakh Modernization of Customs
Administration subproject of BDXDP, subomitted by NBR and approved by GOB.
*  August 1998 final aide mnemoire for the Asian Development Bank's appraisal mission for the Port Efficiency
and Access Improvement Project, Albab Akanda et al
*  September 1998 draft Memorandum ofAgreement between NBR of Bangladesh and the WCO, Brussels for a
diagnostic study workshop and entry and follow-up missions and support.
*  October 1998 draft report, Direct Tax Administration Reform in Bangladesh, by Harvard Institute for
International Development under IDA-executed PHRD Grant.
*  October 1998 report (restricted), Bangladesh: Toward Mediunm-Termi Structural Reform and Improved
Performance of the Revenue System, A. Faria et al., IMF Fiscal Affairs Department
e  November 1998 Requestfor Proposals (RFP) for Consultancy Services, including terms of reference for the
subproject team, issued by NBR to five short-listed firms.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 76
Country: Bangladesh                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
e  November 1998 draft UK DFID project memorandum, Strengthening and Modernising Value Added Tax
Adnzinistration.
a  November 15, 1998 letter from NBR to IDA requesting assistance in preparing a TAPP for assistance in total
implementation of the 9-year RAMP.
*  December 15, 1998 letter from IDA to the Minister of Finance suggesting actions that could be taken or
announced in the Revenue Administration area to help expedite processing of the BDXDP Credit.
d  January 12, 1999 letter form ERD on behalf of the Minister of Finance (i) affirming the Government's
recognition that the RAMP needs to be mounted quickly, and (ii) requesting immediate processing of the
BDXDP Credit.
e  Duty Exemption and Drawback Administration Modernization, Faiz Khan
e  Technical proposals from four bidding firms and GOB/IDA correspondence concerning the evaluation thereof.
*Including electronic files



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                             Page 77
Country: Bangladesh                                                                                                           Project Title: Export Diversification Project
Annex 9  Statement of Loans and Credits
Project ID   Fiscal Year                Purpose                  Original Amount    Cancellation          Undisbursed          Expected-Actual Disbsmts a/
Original          Revised
Number of Closed Projects: 135
Active Projects
BD-PE-37294      1999       ROAD REH. MAINT. III                            273.00                                286.32                   0
BD-PE-50745      1999       ARSENIC CONTROL                                  32.40                                 34.07                0.45
BD-PE-37857      199S       PCP ANID )EALTH V                               250.00                                247.32                 -13
BD-PE-40713      1998       SILKDEVPILOTPROJ.                                 11.35                                11.10                1.83
BD-PE-44789      1998       PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                              235.00                                237.33               29.79
BD-PE-9550       1998       PRIMARY EDUC DEV.                               150.00                                156.25               11.03
BD-PE-40985      1997       POVERTY ALLEVIATION                             105.00                                 53.76                -5.5
BD-PE-9482       1997       DHAKA WATER/SAN. IV                              80.30                                 66.40               17.85
BD-PE-9518       1997       2ND RURAL RDS&MRKT                              133.00                                 93.40                2.44
BD-PE-9484       1996       AG. RES. MANAGEMENT                              50.00                                 39.57                27.6
BD-PE-9545       1996       RIVER BANK PROTECTION                           121.90                                 19.19               21.79
BD-PE-9549       1996       COASTAL EMBANKMENT R                             53.00                                 18.07               18.33
BD-PE-9560       1996      NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                               10.50                                 8.38                1.43
BD-PE-9496       1995       NUTRITION                                        59.80                                 47.85               13.08
BD-PE-9533       1995       GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                              120.80                                 71.20               50.29             40.71
BD-PE-9465       1994       2ND ROAD REHAB & MAI                            146.80                                  9.55              -17.35
BD-PE-9509       1994       JAMUNA BRIDGE                                   200.00                                 12.56                2.58              2.41
BD-PE-9555       1993       FEMALE SECONDARY SCH                             68.00                                 27.31               10.93              5.06
BD-PE-9470       1992       FOREST RESOURCES MGM                             49.60            3.32                 14.28               11.07              1.88
BD-PE-9559       1992       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             25.00                                  2.60                1.54
BD-PE-9540       1991       INLAND WATER TRANSP                              45.00                                 21.41               20.89
BD-PE-9542       1990       RURAL ELECTRIF III                              105.00                                 18.32                9.71
TOTAL                                                                      2.325.45           3.32              1.496.24               211.9             50.06
Active Projects     Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 831.06            5.291.27          6.122.33
of which has been repaid                             -              384.34            384.34
Total now held by IBRD and IDA.               2.322.13            4.653.27          6.975.40
Amount sold                                                           0.37              0.37
of which repaid                                      -                0.37              0.37
Total Undisbursed                              1.496.24              11.51          1.507 15
a! Intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal, minus actual disbursements to date.
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31 -Oct-98.



Pioject Appisaisal Document                                                                                                      Page 78
Countiy: Bangladesh                                                                               Pioject Title: Expott Divessification Project
Bangladesh at a glance                                                              4/15/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South     Low-
Bangladesh      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-vear (millions)                     123 6     1,289     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$;                    350       390       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     43 3       502       722
Averane annual Arowth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        16        19        21      G                                G
Labor force (A)                                       2 1       2 2       23      GNP                              Gross
perprmy
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-981                             capita                       enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national povett line,   36
Urban population (% of total population)               20        27        28
Life expectancy at birth (vearns)                     58         62        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)               75        71        78
Child malnutrition (%6 of children under 5)            68                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 84        77        71
Illiteracy (% of population ace 15+1                   62        51        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-aqe population;  96        99        9Bangladesh
Male                                                 93       109       100                  Low-income group
Female                                              100        89        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           96      238       41 3      42 7
Gross domestic investment/GDP               170      19.0      21 4      222                      Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP            5 2      54       123       13 8
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                  131      12.5      153       171
Gross national savinqs/GDP                  16 1     173       20 4      21 0
Current acoount balance/GDP                  -1 8     -4 1      -2 2      -1 5    Domestic
Interest pavmentslGDP                        0 3      0 6       04        04        omes                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                              264      42 7      366       36 2     Savings                      Ie n
Total debt service/exports                  27.8    280        10 6       94
Present value of debttGDP                                      20 9
Present value of debt/exports                           .     1298
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98    1997      1998   1999.03
(average annual growth,
GDP                                 50       4 7      54        52        56                    Bangladesh
GNP per capita                      2.6      31       41        34        41                    Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services       49      146      165       12.3       99
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(96 of GOP)        ~                        1977    1987       1997     1998   L Growth rates of output and investment %l
Aqriculture                                 33 3     27 8      23 6      22 9
Industrv                                    25 0     22 2      269       279 9     0-
Manufacturinq                              185      152       172       181      s
Services                                    416      500       49 5      492       o r    .    i
Private consumption                         855      84 3      80 2      78 5            93   94   95   9B   97   98
General qovernment consumption               1 4      3 2       4 5       44                      GDO       0  GDP
Imports of Aoods and services                91      120       184       189      ._.____
(average annual growth,                  1977487  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Anriculture                                  36       34       252        30      co
Industrv                                     4 3      69        56        8 3     40
Manufacturinq                               29       70        62        92
Services                                     5 2      4 2       -2 5      46      20
Private consumption                          5 3      4 4       10        33  os-
General qovernment consumption               53       59        60        -0 3                                        9 4   97    98
Gross domestic investment                    4 4      6 1      11 6       9 5    -20
Imports of qoods and services                6 6     10 5       -1 7      4 5                  Exports   Olmports
Gross national product                       5 2      49        57        5 03
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-qroup averaqe If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomolete



Pioject Appraisal Document                                                                                                            Page 79
Countiy: Bangladesh                                                                                    Proiect Title: Expoit Diversification Project
Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          10
Consumer prices                                                    2 5      7 0      s_       
Implicit GDP deflator                         -2 1     11 0        1 7      4 3
Government finance                                                                  24        K
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  r
Current revenue                                         8 7       9 3       9 6             23   94   55    Gs   97   9S
Current budget balance                                            2 2       2 2              -     GDP deflator -10CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -4 2       -4 2
TRADE
(US$ millons)                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   1,074     4,418     5,111     8.000
Jute goods                                            104       116       113
Leather and leather products                          135       185       188      8,00
Manufactures                                          700      3,826     4,527     4,*I0
Total imports (cif)                                   2,620     7,120     7,525     4,00    *E                   l      i
Food                                                  413       197       350      2,000
Fuel and energy                                       230       361       507
Capital goods                                         856      2,000     1,917       o
92  53  94  S5  96   o7r   9
Exportorice index (1995=100)                             54       102
Import price index 01995=100)                           79        100                          m Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                68       103
8ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ m/iions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 464    1,301       5,096    5,781      a        _
Imports of goods and services                 932    2,876      7,677     8,155
Resource balance                              -469   -1,576    -2,581    -2,374      1  .-
Net income                                     -31     -122        91      -130    -2
Net current transfers                         325       731      1,770    1,850
Current account balance                      -174      -966      -902      -654
Financing items (net)                         305    1,169        582       685
Changes in net reserves                      -130      -203       320       -31    -5
Memo:
Reserves ncludinrt rold (US$milioons)                            1,719    1,750
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              155      30 6      42 7      45 4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998   1
JUS$ miftions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,518   10,149    15,125    15,467                      G 175
BRD                                          55       70        38        34                 F 130      A: 34
IDA                                         505    2,955      5,701     6,014
Total debt service                             148      547       705       696          E:4,710
IBRD                                          3        5          7         7                                    B: 6,014
IDA                                           4       35         96       106
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0      662        736       589
Official creditors                          274      774        326       442
Private creditors                            -1        1        -28        15
Foreign investment (including Portfolio)      0        2       -120       221                D: 4,132           272
World Bank program
Commnitments                                202      415        460       646      A - ISRO                     E - Bilaterat
Disbursements                                88      348        299       373      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        9         59        65    t' r                           n r
Net flows                                    88  339  241  308 _
nterest payments                              7       31        44        47
Net transfers                                81      308        196       261
Development Economics                                                                                                  4/15/99



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24206R1
(,>N  tBANGLADESH
J Thakurgoon.                                                                                               DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
|HA6KURGAON           o    9   MN>  \f f D                                                                  DIVISION BOUNDARIES
ilpha                                   .                                     -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_.INiJPoUR
\ Dincipur                        KL&I                                     MILES   0             25           50            75
C,                                                            ~~~I           I     
, '- CioGibCmdhi 
D                                  KILOMETERS   0         25       SO      75      100
GMAibNDk                                                           UAGN                  0L
JOY'-\'SJOY PURIAT''    f  \       SERPUR
NAOGAON        0 Joypuchet                                                                Sunamganj 0
oSerpar
.AIJ J m   A  J $ ,   A  H  Si  ama  oNetrokonA   SUN",GANJ                SY'HET    \
)OYVGANJ          No n ',     *    °  ' '  O Bagra                          OtamensingM h  >.            *            -L 
towobm j - X                     - v              ,    v   /         t      MYMENSINGHi             -   -
RAISHAHI        ,'                                                                1 < K    GOKishorgonj  H-IABIGANj  0 MoaM Boner
Seraig=jr 0                   Ar       K\   Yk                               MOUMLNBAZA
ONatore ~~~~~~~~SE.WGANJ                     TANGAIL                         rr /Habiganju
ONotore                         APGLGIOZArJ                                       Hobigonj
; ' 1 g| OTangail , \ \ 4 7=g.i
|         5              ~~~~~~~PABNA         1             ,GA;U          .   \                          r  
INDIA                                                   0G~~~~~~~~~~~~OOopur  ASNI BRI /
i  K rUSH WbY                it\9-d                     5ZP r N roh-
i Kushfic                  t     ok                                  d   Baria (                  INDIA
*fHLRD0 blS ANG FD \A,g Jh-id 
I I-ENA?GAH F,-                   PmN u                            COMILA . NA N/
}~~~~~~~~~~~A U                                 h'- '       I ,/ - GEA  
JESSORE      NARAIL            AADARIPUR IC kandpar                                         ' ,  h  .CHA
(J       0iessore   *Ncarcil    GOPAL,GANJOMOdOrpar \o d 
iW / ' 03 Xalgan;J                    BA      i     F          S OAHLI--FN .                 Khogrocrhoan 
The mop mon prepared
on this nrog do  notkhi'                                   OPUR
imply, so   e port at ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.   o                                            I Oaal
The Worl Bes  Gropa,dkhl
bmy jtdh en Map D e legal
ofthtu  of,l oB-terioy
daior an   endoremnt                                                                                                                             Bnbn
imply,ceptane pfrtook
bsdormies.                                                                                                                                      PANDARBAN
MAYI1988



