                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29655

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-32290)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 32.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                             BANGLADESH

                                                 FOR A

                                EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT




                                              April 15, 2005




Finance and Private Sector Development
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Taka
                                 60.23 Taka = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = 0.016603

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1    June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
BTC        Bangladesh Tariff Commission
CM-1       Customs Administration Modernization- Phase 1 (subproject in Comp. 2)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DEDO       Duty Exemption and Drawback Office
EPB        Export Promotion Bureau
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (of the IMF)
GDP        Gross domestic product
GOB        Government of Bangladesh
ICB        International competitive bidding
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
MGF        Matching Grant Facility (subproject in Component 1)
MOC        Ministry of Commerce
NBR        National Board of Revenue
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PATC       Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation (subproject in Component 2)
PCU        Project Coordination and Development Unit (subproject in Component 2)
PD         Project Director (for coordination or of subprojects)
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PIP        Project implementation plan
PMDS       Product and market development support (= Project Component 1)
PSI        Pre-Shipment Inspection
RAMP       Revenue Administration Modernization Programme
SBW        Special bonded warehouse
TA         Technical Assistance
TOR        Terms of Reference
TMCB       Trade management capacity building (= Project Component 2)
TPCBP      Trade Policy Capacity Building Project (parallel funding by UK DFID)
UK DFID    United Kingdom Department for International Development
UNCTAD     United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
WCO        World Customs Organization
WTO        World Trade Organization

                            Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
                          Country Director       Christine I. Wallich
                            Sector Director      Joseph Del Mar Pernia
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Esperanza Lasagabaster

                                       BANGLADESH
                                    Export Diversification


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Evalutaion Report                                            30

Project ID: P049790                                                  Project Name: Export Diversification
Team Leader: Esperanza Lasagabaster                                  TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Export Diversification                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-32290
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (55%); Central government
                            administration (45%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P); Infrastructure services for private
                            sector development (S); Tax policy and administration (S); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/13/1998                                     Effective:                           06/21/1999
     Appraisal: 06/18/1998                                         MTR:                             01/25/2001
      Approval: 06/01/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Bangladesh/Ministry of Commerce
                      Other Partners:      National Board of Revenue

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine I. Wallich                           Frederick T. Temple
Sector Director:                Joseph Del Mar Pernia                          Marilou Jane D. Uy
Team Leader at ICR:             Esperanza Lasagabaster
ICR Primary Author:             Esperanza Lasagabaster; Sati
                                Achath; Arif Ahamed


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the US$48.0 million project (Credit US$32.0 million) was to accelerate Bangladesh's
integration into the world economy by expanding net export production value through product and market
diversification, including increased value added. The primary approach to this purpose was the promotion
of private market solutions to exporters' skills and information needs.

Important subsidiary objectives were to improve the business environment for industry and commerce
generally -- and thus help create employment and GDP growth -- through reforms in trade policy, Customs
administration, and elsewhere to reduce costs imposed by policy, procedural and infrastructure-related
impediments. Customs reforms were particularly important, as the project initiated a process to modernize
the Customs Department, make it more transparent, and reduce corruption and inefficiency in revenue
collection which have been a major business impediment.

The objectives were clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social development, and
realistic in scale and scope. They were timely, appropriate, and responsive to the needs of the Borrower,
considering that Bangladesh had a narrow export basket and wanted to diversify and integrate into global
economy on the basis of an export-led strategy. The project was also consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh, discussed by the Board on March 31, 1998 (CAS Document
No. 17453-BD), and supported several substantive and procedural CAS goals.

The Bank's involvement in the government's implementation of the Matching Grant Facility (MGF),
Customs reform agenda, and other promotional and capacity building initiatives that required technical
assistance was expected to: (i) improve inter-Ministry cooperation; (ii) assist export promotion and
marketing through clear specification of objectives, criteria, and positive externalities; (iii) encourage
private/public partnerships and new initiatives in export promotion; and (iv) support the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of the IMF in maintaining pressure for trade and employment
growth.

The project took into account lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects in Bangladesh which
showed that it is important to: (i) avoid attaching too much institutional reform to adjustment lending, but
rather support it through TA instruments like this project; (ii) ensure continuity by complementing
short-term advisory and training activities with political efforts to bring about institutional/cultural change
in public agencies, notably through strong ownership by stakeholders (in this case export producers); (iii)
build firm arrangements for coordinating implementation into the project design (rather than relying largely
on the Bank supervision to maintain momentum); and (iv) restrict project activities to those which have a
constituency that would ensure implementation.

The project envisioned the following social and economic benefits: (i) improved business environment and
market-based support for the development of new products and markets; (ii) a significant increase in the
quantity and range of exports and consequently in employment, the balance of payments, and the economy's
growth rate; (iii) improved capacity of the Bangladesh Tariff Commission (BTC) to facilitate further tariff
reform; and (iv) a streamlining of export-related Customs operations.

The project followed a simple structure, and project activities were clearly articulated. Implementation was
not overly demanding for the Borrower since each component was well defined and manageable. Even
though the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) did not have sufficient technical, administrative and financial
capacity for the successful implementation of these components, these shortcomings were overcome



                                                     - 2 -

through the Project Coordination and Development Unit (PCU) which provided extensive assistance and
guidance to the Ministry through project implementation. On the other hand, project implementation was
fairly demanding on the Bank because of the effort involved in coordinating with multiple agencies and
implementing several sub-project activities. Further, weak institutional capacity of agencies involved in
project implementation, such as MOC and National Board of Revenue (NBR), made the Bank's role more
demanding.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two broad components, one providing product and market development support to
private firms, and the other dealing with trade management capacity building mainly in the public sector.
Each comprised self-contained but coordinated subprojects to address particular institutional needs. Both
components supported the achievement of project's objectives. A description of each project component
follows.

Component 1: Product and Market Development Support (PMDS) (US$29.73 million: 61.9% of the
total project cost).

The PMDS component emphasized entrepreneurial capacity building and development of export support
services. It comprised funding for a Matching Grant Facility (MGF) for exporting firms, groups of firms,
and service providers; technical assistance for the operation of the MGF, and smaller subprojects ("New
Subprojects") to support selected public, private, and public/private initiatives for export promotion.

Matching Grant Facility

(a) Product and Market Development Matching Grants

MGF was a temporary instrument to encourage the use of business support services to enhance firms'
export capabilities by providing grants covering 50% of the cost of service fees and associated travel
expenses. Grants were to be made either to exporters acquiring services or to firms gearing up to provide
them. Eligible initiatives included any activity that would strengthen export competitiveness, such as
quality improvement initiatives, testing and certification of process and product, enterprise training focused
on export needs, technical assistance to help with product adaptation, and market identification and
development. MGF was to be administered by a Board and a professional management team under
contract for the duration of the component.

(b) New Subprojects

These activities were to be identified and developed during project implementation by the MOC with active
contributions by the PCU and other project staff. They could support public or private entities. Criteria for
the approval of such subprojects included: (i) expected direct contribution to the diversification of export
products or markets or to increasing value added; (ii) complementarity with other project activities; (iii)
focus on the development of sustainable capacity and expertise for supporting export production and/or
marketing; and (iv) strengthening of essential public capacity in trade management.




                                                     - 3 -

Component II: The Trade Management Capacity Building. (US$16.49 million: 34.4% of the total
project cost)

This component contained three subprojects which focused on key policy and institutional issues affecting
the environment for the export sector.

(i) Customs Administration Modernization, Phase I (CAM-I)

This subproject represented the first important undertaking to initiate a modernization of revenue
administration. The subproject was to pilot various process, technology, culture and organizational changes
that would ultimately be implemented for all Customs and expanded to other areas of revenue collection.
The subproject supported several areas of reform: streamlined export and related import-clearance
procedures; automation through ASYCUDA++ and other MIS; and improved special bonded warehousing
monitoring and duty drawback schemes.

(ii) Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation (PATC)

This subproject contained activities addressing protection analysis, other support for tariff reform, and
global/regional trade cooperation. It was located primarily in the BTC but the trade cooperation component
was also to involve systems and staff of the MOC. The subproject was to be implemented partly with
parallel funding by the United Kingdom's Department for International Development's (DFID) Trade Policy
Capacity Building Project.

(iii) Coordination and Development

This component consisted of a PCU that was to be responsible not only for facilitating and monitoring
project activities but also for analyzing export constraints, advising on needs for institutional change, and
formulating New Subprojects to support exporters.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory.The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived.
There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

QAG conducted a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) before appraisal, and its recommendations were
incorporated into the final design of the project. QER commended the project team for a generally
well-conceptualized and thoroughly documented project proposal, and also for consulting widely to ensure
that the design of project components reflected best practice. On MGF, QER made the following
suggestions for enhancing the scheme: (i) increasing the approval limit for the manager from US$5000 to a
higher amount; (ii) making the statement of operating policies and procedures (SPOP) as a condition of
Board; and (iii) conducting random audits on fiduciary aspects on a quarterly basis and requiring firms
participating in the scheme to repay grants in case of an abuse.

On the Customs, QER recommended the: (i) Bank to impress upon the government the importance of
maintaining in place first class leadership of the National Board of Revenue (NBR); (ii) preparation of a
vision document as the first task to be performed during project implementation; and (iii) for the project
team to come up with a list of indicators whose achievement or lack thereof would help assess the



                                                     - 4 -

component's success. For the New Subprojects to be developed, QER recommended to reduce the size of
the component from $4 million to $1 million to cover a few high probability activities. For the Trade
Component, QER recommended the project team to make clear in all project documents the dangers of a
potential protectionist mode.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the country assistance
strategy and government priorities and met critical needs of the export sector. The quality of project design
was generally adequate to meet the project's overriding objective, and the assistance of the PCU helped
overcome some of the institutional weaknesses and greatly facilitated project coordination and
implementation. During project preparation, major risk factors and lessons learned from earlier projects in
the trade sector were incorporated into the design. Five alternative project designs were considered and
rejected as they were found to be less attractive options to attain the project objectives. The project
adopted a participatory approach and extensive consultations were conducted with firms, exporters, service
providers, industry associations and chambers, intermediary NGOs, DFID, WTO, World Customs
Organization (WCO), and United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).

Quality at entry, however, could have been further enhanced had additional efforts during project
preparation been taken in the following areas: (a) it would have been better to create a Policy Unit within
the MOC that could have institutionalized the PCU's analytical work following project completion; (b) the
amount allotted to the BTC should have been more modest, in light of its low absorption capacity; and (c)
some institutional reforms at BTC should have been included as a condition of effectiveness. Project
design should also have envisioned a longer period for implementing activities given the complexities of
some of the components. As a result, the original project closing date of December 2002 was extended to
June 2004.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of the project objectives was satisfactory.

The achievement of the overall goal of the project is measured in terms of increases in exports' share of
GDP and greater diversification, compared with base FY1998/99. Exports rose from 11.5 percent of GDP
in 1998/99 to 13.4 percent in 2003/04.        During this period, average annual growth rate of exports
amounted to 5.8 percent. Higher export growth rates could have been posted had it not been for the
negative effects of the "September 11" events. The slump of 2001/02 has now been overcome and exports
have recorded robust growth rates during the last two years, reaching double digits in 2003-2004. During
the project period (1999/04), the value addition of exports rose from 66 percent to 68 percent and a healthy
diversification of exports took place. First, the share of knitwear exports doubled during this period
reaching US$2 billion by 2003-2004. Knitwear now comprises 38 percent of total garment exports
compared to 25 percent at the beginning of the project. This is a positive trend, which reflects the greater
strengths of Bangladesh knitwear compared to the woven sector, placing the country in a stronger position
to compete internationally in the post-MFA era. Second, non-traditional exports rose by 80 percent during
the project period, comprising 20.7 percent of total exports in 2003/04 against 16.5 percent at the
beginning of the project. Non-traditional exports exclude jute products, tea and garments.

Some important customs reforms have been achieved despite a number of challenges encountered during
project implementation. Moreover, these changes have opened the way for further modernization efforts
within NBR that are being assisted with support from IDA and DFID. A draft Strategic Plan for NBR
Modernizing has already being prepared.



                                                    - 5 -

A number of procedural, technical and organizational changes have been introduced to expedite customs
clearance, increase transparency and reduce the costs imposed by NBR customs on the business
community. Export and import procedures have been streamlined with a reduction in the number of
"desks" and signatures and the consolidation of Bills of Entry into a single and standardized document.
More than 100 Statutory Regulation Orders, which were scattered and created confusion to the trading
community, have been consolidated into a single piece. Clearance of export and import bills of entry has
been automated at the most important custom sites, including Chittagong, Dhaka Airport, ICD Kamalapur,
Benapole and Mongla, expediting clearance as noted in section 4.2. Following project completion, NBR
management has taken a number of steps to expand automation to smaller customs offices. Automation
together with the introduction of the "closed loop" system (separating clearance and forwarding agents
from customs officers) has brought greater transparency to customs operations and reduced opportunities
for "speedy" money. In 2001, NBR created a centralized unit to manage Customs Bonded Warehouses.
Special bonded warehouse licenses are automatically renewed annually, replacing a tedious process which
required licensees to reapply each year at a custom house. The average period for reviewing and approving
a license has been reduced to 15 days, compared to historical practices which took more than 3 months.

The Matching Grant has encouraged greater use of export support services. Based on a recent survey,
MGF-participating enterprises were more likely to adopt export-support services than a control group not
assisted by the program. Grant-assisted enterprises have shown greater development of new products and
diversification into new markets. The export growth rate of the two groups, however, was nearly the same.
A more conclusive assessment of the MGF impact should be conducted in two or three years after the end
of the project, when it is more likely that the full impact of the Matching Grant program will be felt.

The operation of the MGF Board illustrated a successful public-private partnership and good governance
practices. This model inspired a number of other public-private partnerships to facilitate trade capacity
creation (e.g., the Bangladesh Foreign Trade Institute) and export promotion activities (e.g.. Business
Promotion Councils). The establishment of Business Promotion Councils and Bangladesh Foreign Trade
Institute was supported though the New Subprojects components.

Despite the limited capacity building achieved at the BTC, the process of trade liberalization continued at a
modest pace through tariff reduction and rationalization during the entire period of the project. The pace of
liberalization quickened in the last year of the project, i.e., budget of June 2004. The top customs duty rate
declined from 40% in 1999 to 25% in FY05. The unweighted average duty also declined from 19% in
FY00 to 15.5% in FY05. However, some protection was noticed from the prevalence of a number of
paratariffs. Electronic import and tariff database generated by the ASYCUDA++ system provided a firm
basis for NBR management to adjust tariffs and estimate/project the revenue impact more swiftly and
accurately than ever before.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Customs Administration Modernization Phase I (CAM-I).

The most important achievements attained by this component are summarized below:

(i) Regulatory changes and streamlining of export and related import clearance procedures.

Activities completed by the NBR under policy matters comprise: (a) updating of legal and operative tariffs;
(b) amendments introduced in the Customs Act (totaling 72) to provide legal cover to ASYCUDA++,
on-line submission of documents, post audit, duty drawback, Special Bonded Warehouse and other



                                                       - 6 -

procedures; (c) compilation of all Statutory Regulation Orders (SROs) into one volume for publication; (d)
creation of NBR web-site and Help Customs system; and (e) adoption of Single Administrative document
for imports/exports. In addition, NBR also undertook rationalization of the tax structure, accepting some
of the recommendations of the Revenue Reforms Commission and the CAM Project and is now in the
process of streamlining clearance procedures for Express (Courier) consignments in accordance with WCO
recommendations. Overall, these policy changes can be regarded as timely, appropriate and in line with the
basic objective of simplification and streamlining of procedures.

(ii) Installation of ASYCUDA++.

One of the most significant achievements under the project is the installation and implementation of the
ASYCUDA++ at major Customs sites, including Chittagong, Dhaka Airport, ICD Kamalapur, Chittagong,
and Benapole. Mongla customs office was also automated but the full ASYCUDA++ system was not
introduced due to low trade volume. The introduction of ASYCUDA++ has helped automate the clearance
process for all customs regimes (imports, exports, Bonded Warehousing and EPZ), replacing, standardizing
and streamlining the previous manual and semi-automated systems that were formerly in place at the
various offices. The use of automated tools for the tracking of declarations has helped reduce the numerous
manual registration steps. The relocation of Customs Treasury functions to a single location (immediately
next door to or within banking facilities) has decreased the need for repeated visits by Customs Agents to
Assessment Groups and bank for payment and validation purposes. The establishment of the "close-loop"
has diminished opportunities for Customs Agents to meet with officers and intercept their declarations.
The introduction of risk management tools (in-built within ASYCUDA++) has created capacity for better
managing risky consignments and selectivity profiling. Although it was not initially envisioned in the
project, on-line processing of clearance documents was tested during the project and is expected to be
introduced shortly for selected traders at Dhaka Airport.

As a result of the above measures, the speed of processing bills of entry has shown significant
improvements. At Chittagong, the most important customs house, 99 percent of export bills of entry are
now cleared within the same day. Prior to reforms, 50 percent of bills of entry were cleared within the
same day and only 64 percent were cleared within one day after submission. In addition, 53 percent and 70
percent of import bills of entry are cleared within one day and three days after submission compared to 29
percent and 40 percent prior to reforms. The number of required signatures and desks has also decreased
significantly as shown below.




                                      Chittagong: Import Bills of Entry--
                                              Processing Days
                                            (cumulative percentage)

                                  120
                                  100
                                  80
                                  60
                                  40
                                  20
                                   0
                                          0      1       2-3      4-7    8+
                                               April 2000   March 2004




                                                      - 7 -

           CUSTOMS HOUSE ­ EXPORTS AND IMPORTS CLEARANCE
                                    Number of Desks
                                  Exports                              Imports
 Custom               Manual System*           After           Partially       After
 House                                     ASYCUDA++           Automated     ASYCUDA++
                                                                System
 Chittagong
 Total Clearance             26                 18                  0           26
 Assessment                  22                 14                 27           13
 Dhaka
 Total Clearance             23                 13                 27           20
 Assessment                  11                  7                 17           11
 ICD
 Total Clearance             14                  9                 27           14
 Assessment                  10                  7                 13            9
*The Export Clearance system was partially automated for Dhaka Customs House.


Trade information: The automation of custom clearance systems has allowed Customs offices greater
capture of trade information. This has assisted in the development of a central database of all trade and
customs revenue information that is currently utilized by NBR for its own needs and formatted for delivery
to NBR information partners, such as the Bank of Bangladesh, Bureau of Statistics, and Export Promotion
Bureau. Prior to these institutional reforms, the Bank of Bangladesh compiled trade data based on manual
information with substantial delays.

Training was imparted to Customs departmental officers and users of ASYCUDA. Moreover, to ensure
sustainability, NBR headquarters set up a fully equipped training center for training in ASYCUDA++ and
other MIS systems that were developed under the project.

(iii) Special Bonded Warehousing Systems and Duty Drawback Schemes

A specialized Bond Commissionerate was established in the course of the project. Procedures for granting
licenses have been streamlined, as noted earlier, and automated.             Monitoring procedures of bonded
warehouses were reviewed and training was provided on post-audit techniques, although some of the
trained officers were subsequently rotated. Risk-management IT modules were developed to support
monitoring of bonded warehouses and post-audit. Although these modules have been completed, they have
not yet become fully operational. NBR is taking steps to activate these models and has trained "Trainers"
that will in turn be able to capacitate other officers.

Procedures for Duty Exemption and Drawback Office (DEDO) were reviewed and an SRO with new
simplified procedures was drafted. The SRO, however, is still under review due to concerns by some
customs representatives about potential leakages under revised procedures. It is expected that these
concerns will be addressed soon so that the new simplified procedures can be implemented. Some IT
modules were developed to automate new DEDO procedures but they are not yet operational. Other MIS
systems developed to enhance the capacity of ASYCUDA++ ran into similar difficulties due to frequent
changes in user requirements during project implementation, relocation of trained staff and insufficient
collaboration between consulting firms working on ASYCUDA++ and the development of these



                                                          - 8 -

complementary MIS systems.

Despite these difficulties, under the leadership of new Member Customs, the institution is taking active
steps to ensure that all these information systems become operational shortly and that there is a proper
interface between ASYCUDA++, other MIS enhancements, and new Bond and DEDO systems. In
addition, the ASYCUDA++ national training centre, initiated with the support of UNCTAD, has now been
expanded to provide training in these other areas and "Trainers" have already been trained. The new
Export Management Technical Assistance Project (EMTAP) would allow the Bank to monitor that these
information systems become fully operational.

Matching Grant Facility

MGF was launched in October 1999 for a period of three years with an initial target figure of US$12
million in grant disbursements or US$24 million in project funding. An international consulting firm with
wide experience in the administration of similar programs was contracted and its activities were supervised
by a Board with public-private sector participation, especially constituted for the purpose. In the initial
implementation years, the grant cycle (grant approval, implementation, and disbursement) proved longer
than planned. Due to the long disbursement cycle and adverse consequences of "September 11" on the
program, the MGF was reduced to US$9 million in 2002. An additional US$2.2 million were made
available in 2003-4 to respond to a surge of activity in the final year of the program. Close to 1100
projects were implemented for a total amount of US$21.9 million compared to an estimate of US$24
million at appraisal. An additional US$4.4 million, roughly 20 percent of total MGF project costs, was
spent on administration and advisory services, compared to US$4.5 million at appraisal. It is not possible,
however, to establish a sharp distinction between how much was spent on administration and how much on
advisory services.

Private enterprises received extensive technical advice from the MGF grant administrator with the
formulation of their strategic plans and potential implementation arrangements, including identification of
potential service suppliers. Firms greatly valued and benefited from these advisory services since most of
them were exposed to the preparation of formal strategic plans for the very first time.
Admnistrative/advisory costs for the Bangladesh program fall within the range of administrative costs
experienced by most other matching grants projects (e.g, Argentina (18 percent), Uganda and Kenya (closer
to 25 percent)). For the most part, costs tend to be higher for low income countries where firms appear to
be weaker and require more assistance with their business plans. In some cases, it has not been possible to
ascertain operational costs since costs have been cross-subsidized by other services (e.g., India where the
program was managed by local banks).

More than 700 firms benefited from the program. The MGF was primarily used to support market
development, especially visits to trade fairs, followed by activities to foster company development
(especially implementation of quality control systems and ISO 9000 certification, and improving the
company's management capability through MIS). Product development was the third most important
category for which MGF was used (including hiring of international experts to help design better products).
The emphasis on market development is consistent with the experience of other MGF programs
implemented for the export sector (e.g., Argentina).

At the end of the program, a survey was conducted amongst 54 recipients of MGF grants to assess the level
of benefit which the grantees had achieved. A Control Group of 26 exporting firms which had not utilized
MGF Grant was also contacted so as to compare the performance of these two groups. The survey



                                                    - 9 -

confirmed that market development (69.7 percent of grantees) was the primary MGF activity, followed by
company development (18.5 percent) and product development (11.9 percent). 87 percent of surveyed
MGF participants stated that the program had a significant impact on the improvement of their operations.
The primary benefits were related to market development but respondents enjoyed spin-off benefits in other
areas as a result of gearing themselves up to meet the requirement of new customers, including introduction
of Quality Control Systems, decrease in rejection rates, and enhancement of production capacity and
development of packaging solutions.

MGF-assisted firms appear to have been more successful than non-assisted firms in developing new
products and accessing new markets. Over the period 1999-2003, the number of new countries to which
assisted firms were exporting had increased by 36 percent compared to a 14 percent increase for the
non-assisted group. The number of types of products exported had risen by 21 percent against an 8 percent
decline for the non-assisted firms. However, the average growth rate of MGF assisted firms (15 percent)
and non-assisted firms (17 percent) was not significantly different.

PATC

Outputs under the PATC component were limited and resources were not used effectively. The
international consulting firm selected to assist with the institutional strengthening of BTC produced a
number of trade analytical reports for use by the BTC and MOC and a Policy Impact Evaluation
Methodology. The consultants also prepared a report identifying recommendations for the institutional
restructuring of BTC, which were not implemented. Although BTC staff benefited from training, many of
them were subsequently relocated. The most important outputs of this component are the policy briefings
that were produced for senior policy-makers to support their participation at critical trade negotiation
meetings, including WTO-Seattle, DOHA meetings and other.

This sub-component could not perform effectively for a number of reasons. Although there was strong
ownership at the level of the Ministry of Commerce, this was not the case at the agency level. The BTC
leadership changed frequently and did not show sufficient commitment to reforms. The institution lacked
qualified and professional staff, and there was uncertainty in the tenure of at least a third or more of the
staff. A number of institutional reforms should have been implemented prior to project effectiveness or the
scope of the component should have been much reduced.

New Subprojects. As a result of the experience gained during the project, the Ministry of Commerce with
the assistance of the PCU developed the following new sub-projects to promote trade and export
diversification. For most of these activities, the project provided some modest but timely assistance with
the view that the government, other donors and/or future IDA projects would provide further assistance
after the project closed:

Business Promotion Councils (BPCs) and ICT marketing office: The project supported the formation of
three business promotion councils--Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Leather, and Light
Engineering--and an ICT marketing office. The councils and ICT office are based on public-private
partnerships, which were partly inspired by the positive experience of the MGF Board. The councils are at
an early development stage but have sponsored a number of relevant sectoral studies and surveys and
training programs on various technical matters. Some of these activities have taken place in collaboration
with other donors, including GTZ and the Italian government. The government has continued to provide
some financial support for the Business Promotion Councils and a number of donors have also expressed
interest, especially the European Union. The government has also requested some support from EMTAP.




                                                    - 10 -

An ICT marketing office was opened in mid-2003 in Santa Clara, California, with the assistance of
Bangladeshi expatriates. The objective was to have an organization which could provide support to the
fledgling Bangladesh software export industry through marketing support and infrastructural assistance.
More than 35 ICT companies have subscribed but very few companies have used the center for marketing
missions. Based on the first year of experience, the office has changed its strategic focus placing greater
emphasis on active marketing and prospecting of new business opportunities for Bangladeshi exporters.
The office has provided a number of leads to Bangladeshi ICT firms. Following project completion, the
government has continued to finance the office together with the private sector.

Bangladesh Foreign Trade Institute (BFTI). The project provided modest support towards the
establishment of the BFTI, which initiated activities in late 2003. The institute's objectives are to facilitate
skill development of both public and private professionals in the area of international trade. As an
independent agency, it will not be restricted by the tight hiring and compensation regulations of the public
sector. The project supported the implementation of the first training courses on Trade Promotion and key
WTO issues, for both the public and private sector, some analytical trade studies, and refurbishment of the
institute's facilities. DFID will sign shortly a memorandum of understanding with the government
providing additional technical assistance to enhance the capacity of BFTI.

National Trade Portal.A feasibility study for a National Trade Portal that would consolidate information
on Bangladeshi exporters, export markets and importers, was prepared. The MOC and trading community
are seeking financing to implement this project, possibly with EMTAP support. In addition, the project
provided some modest support to other activities conducted by the Export Promotion Bureau.

Post-MFA Development Strategy and Technical Assistance for the RMG Sector. The study was a critical
and timely analytical piece that looked at the strengths and weaknesses of the Bangladeshi Ready-made
garment sector and provided recommendations to enable the industry to meet the challenges of the
post-Multi-Fibre Agreement era. The study included a small survey of RMG enterprises. Throughout the
preparation of the study, the consultants held a number of workshops with participation from government
representatives and the industry and its findings were widely diffused among stakeholders. The study
helped create greater awareness of the issues and coping strategies. Some of its recommendations have
already been adopted and related training activities have been launched.

Coordination and Development.

Studies. Besides assisting the MOC with project implementation, the PCU conducted a series of studies on
product and market development, institutional development and constraints to export growth and
diversification. The results of these studies were useful for identifying issues critical to the achievement of
the project's objectives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project resulted in a modest institutional development impact.

NBR: A process of reform within the NBR has been initiated with the automation and simplification of



                                                    - 11 -

procedures. These institutional reforms were supported by extensive training given to Customs managers
and staff in ASYCUDA++ operations and other technical matters. The training programs conducted
together with the hands-on experience gained by Customs officials have paved the way for better practices
and standards. Another positive gain is the ushering in of the computer culture in the Customs department
which had helped expedite clearance of goods, increased transparency of customs operations and set a
positive precedent for other departments within NBR.

Earlier efforts to automate Customs procedures were minimal. Moreover, some of the automation efforts
attempted at Chittagong Customs office in the mid-1990s were interrupted due to high opposition by
Customs officers and agents.         Activities conducted under the project thus represent an important
institutional change and open the way for further reengineering of business processes and automation in
other critical areas of revenue administration. EMTAP will help consolidate customs reforms undertaken
in the context of the project and ensure that all MIS, DEDO and bonded warehouse modules become
effective very shortly, while DFID and other Bank activities will provide further support to continue with
the modernization of NBR and revenue collection.

MGF: The project was instrumental for institutional development in the private sector. It introduced the
concept of planning, management information systems, quality certification systems, and new marketing
efforts to many exporting industries. Most firms participating in the MGF were exposed for the first time
to a rigorous process of project planning, which was a by-product of the program. Participating firms have
started to use these new export services and facilities on a regular basis to sustain export growth, and
improve management and quality of services to their clients. Over time, this should lead to a demonstrative
effect for other firms.

BFTI. With some modest project support, the institute has developed the basic infrastructure necessary for
a training institute to begin its activities and a few training programs in key WTO areas have already been
conducted. The process of institutional development will continue with DFID's assistance. This will
require contracting of additional professional staff and a significant expansion of the institute's curriculum
and activities. See Section 4.2 for a discussion on development of Business Promotion Councils.

BTC. Efforts to strengthen the institutional capacity of the BTC were not successful. Critical institutional
changes were not implemented prior to project effectiveness. Appointment of several Chairmen without the
necessary technical background for very short tenure periods and a large rotation of staff to other
organizations unrelated to trade did not create the conditions for ownership of reforms and successful
institutional development. Training was not used to its potential.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(i) The unfortunate events of "September 11" affected the project in two ways. The direct impact was on
the MGF, as grant activities were cancelled or put on hold due to visas being denied to exporters for
marketing trips. The indirect impact was on Bangladeshi exporters more broadly who were the primary
beneficiaries of the project. Export revenues dropped significantly during the FY2001-02. Greater
international competition in some industries also affected the price of export goods (e.g., ready-made
garments) even though export volume increased.

(ii) The implementation of the ASYCUDA++ system could not meet the original schedule. It was realized
soon after the project took off that the selected consulting firm was not authorized to implement
ASYCUDA++ , which was originally developed by UNCTAD. Accordingly, a tripartite agreement was



                                                      - 12 -

signed among NBR, UNCTAD and the consultant in December 1999, under which UNCTAD was
assigned the task of introducing ASYCUDA++ system at NBR and other activities under CAM were
assigned to the consultant.     The transfer of funds to UNCTAD under this agreement took place in
mid-2000. UNCTAD'S technical implementation of ASYCUDA++ thus started in June 2001, i.e. after a
delay of about 23 months.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
NBR: Frequent change of leadership and project directors within NBR and staff rotating policies affected
project implementation and contributed to delays.

BTC: Frequent management changes, conflicting responsibilities with other trading organizations, and lack
of progress on critical institutional reforms contributed to the unsatisfactory implementation of this
subcomponent.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Customs Administration Modernization: (i) The lack of a full time project director with a full-fledged
project management team inevitably caused delays. It also led to insufficient supervision of consultants
and in turn to inadequate transfer of technology from the international consulting firm working with NBR.

(ii) The deployment of ASYCUDA++ systems at the selected customs houses suffered delays primarily due
procurement problems of the requisite IT equipment.

(iii) The ASYCUDA++ system developed by UNCTAD was to be integrated with other management
information systems, new Bond and Duty Drawback schemes developed by the international consulting
firm. The completion of these modules suffered important disruptions during the first half of 2003 due to
various causes. The project team leader of the consulting firm undertook a new assignment and the
consulting firm was unable to replace him with a strong and full-time project team leader. The negotiation
of the third contract extension was complex and lengthy and demanded rigorous supervision by the Bank's
project team to ensure that it followed good procedures. An understaffed NBR team to oversee project
management also contributed to the problems.

PATC: This sub-project did not perform effectively because there was little ownership at the agency level.
There were continuous changes in the BTC leadership and, for the most part, the Chairmen selected did not
have the appropriate technical expertise to lead a trade policy agency. Nor were they "reform champions"
strongly committed to long-term institutional reforms. As a result, cooperation between the consultants and
BTC leadership was inadequate. Moreover, a substantial share of the staff was subject to a rotation
scheme, did not have the most relevant professional background, and most frequently moved to other public
organizations unrelated to trade. For the most part, staff was not strongly committed to the institution's
goals, and training was not effectively used. Finally, there were delays in procuring equipment which
hampered staff training and development of BTC facilities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was US$44.96 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$48.0 million.
The difference mainly responds to foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, projected expenditures for the
MGF and the customs components were somewhat lower than expected. The Bank financed US$31.64
million (70.37%), co-financiers contributed US$10.95 million (24.35%); and the Government contributed
US$2.38million equivalent in local costs (5.29%).

6. Sustainability



                                                    - 13 -

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The overall sustainability of the project is rated as likely as shown below:

Customs modernization: During the course of the project, a large team of NBR staff were closely
involved in the deployment of ASYCUDA++ and received extensive hands-on training from UNCTAD.
NBR is now capable of managing ASYCUDA++ without external assistance. UNCTAD will be available
to provide periodic training to Bangladesh on new software releases and is also planning to provide regular
internships to NBR staff to work for three months at UNCTAD's regional office to gain additional
practical experience.   In addition, the establishment of the "national training center" will allow new
customs officers to be trained in ASYCUDA++ and other software systems developed in the context of the
project. The EMTAP will facilitate the consolidation of custom reforms undertaken under this project and
provide additional resources to build upon them.

MGF. The MGF was intended to be a one-time activity that would lead to demonstration effects.
Surveyed firms have indicated that they will continue carrying out activities initiated under the MGF
program.

BFTI. The BFTI does not face the operational and hiring constraints of other public institutions and
enjoys support from both the private and public sector. Currently the Institute is funded by a budget
allocation along with corpus donations by the private sector. DFID is expected to sign shortly a technical
assistance grant to provide further support for the institute's development.

Business Promotion Councils: The MOC has allocated some resources to continue the development of the
ICT center in Silicon Valley and the Business Promotion Councils.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Export Diversification Project focused on critical gaps and obstacles to export growth and
diversification and responded to a government request to assist with the implementation of the Bangladesh
Integrated Country Program for Strengthening Supply Capacity for Exportable Goods and Services.
Early in the identification process, the Bank also conducted a Survey of Exporters' Needs to assess the
most critical export constraints and help prioritize interventions. Customs administration emerged as a
critical obstacle to export growth and a priority policy reform. The survey also revealed great interest by
firms on the matching grant. Other background studies, including special studies on Customs
Administration Issues and Matching Grants, were conducted to support project design. Project design also
included a small but important New Subprojects component to provide flexibility and a rapid response
mechanism to evolving exporters' needs. The scope of the BTC component, however, was too ambitious
given the institution's modest capacity and uncertain ownership at the agency level.

         Through project preparation the Bank conducted extensive consultations with a wide range of
stakeholders, including government agencies, private sector representatives (Federation of Chambers of
Commerce and Industry, other important industry and exporter associations, and private enterprises), and
university professors. The views and concerns of the private sector were incorporated in project design.
Private sector representatives not only showed strong interest in the project but agreed to collaborate during
the implementation stage, for example in the governance and administration of the MGF. As noted earlier,


                                                      - 14 -

the Board of the MGF represents a very successful public-private partnership in Bangladesh.

         The Bank coordinated activities with other donors (inter alia the Asian Development Bank and
DFID) to ensure complementarity and potential collaboration in the project. As a result, DFID agreed to
participate in the Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation Component.

7.2 Supervision:
         A Quality of Supervision Assessment, conducted in mid-2002 or two years into project
implementation, rated both project supervision and supervision inputs and processes as Highly
Satisfactory. The summary of the panel's assessment is as follows: "This is a project with admirable
objectives pursued in a difficult country context, with weak institutions and human capital. [...] Despite
these factors the project has made much progress in each of the three main components, because of
rigorous and diligent supervision, both headquarters and field office staff, who are highly skilled and took
quick actions whenever problems surfaced to address and correct them."

         Project implementation benefited from an adequate allocation of supervision resources, proactive
day-to-day supervision by Bank staff, and timely interventions by Bank management. Institutional reforms
proved difficult and the Bank team and management were proactive in raising issues to senior government
officials and finding concrete steps to resolve problems. The Bank's intervention, for example, played a
critical role in helping overcome obstacles that were impeding the successful implementation of the customs
administration component. In hindsight, however, a customs expert should have joined the supervision team
early on due to the component's complexities. This gap was eventually addressed. The Bank also raised
concerns about the implementation of the BTC subproject and suggested some restructuring measures or
cancellation, but the government delayed a decision on the matter expecting that the BTC performance
would improve.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation and implementation.
The Bank helped design and implement a project that enjoyed strong support by the government and the
private sector and that was focused on priority obstacles to export growth. During project supervision, the
Bank was diligent and proactive in identifying solutions to various implementation challenges.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was strongly committed to the project and its objectives since exports constitute a
cornerstone of the government's growth and poverty reduction strategy. It invited the private sector to
collaborate in the project to promote greater support of critical stakeholders.

For the Customs Administration, the government took key priority steps. In particular: (i) it adopted a
Revenue Administration Modernization Program which included the Customs Modernization subproject as
a key component; (ii) arranged external support from DFID to strengthen Valued Added Tax
Administration; (iii) and facilitated implementation of the envisioned reforms by appointing an outstanding
administrator from outside the revenue services as Chairman. Subsequent changes to NBR leadership,
however, caused some disruptions in the implementation of the customs component as new NBR Chairmen
had to learn afresh the project's objectives and key reform issues. For the BTC component, however, the
government postponed institutional reforms that should have been undertaken prior to project
implementation.

In advance of credit approval and to facilitate a smooth implementation, the government expeditiously



                                                    - 15 -

approved Technical Assistance Proformas for the four components; prepared terms of reference for key
consultancies; invited, received, and evaluated proposals, and selected four experienced international firms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Senior policy-makers from the MOC and
Ministry of Finance remained strongly committed to the project throughout the implementation period, even
when challenging obstacles emerged. For the most part, the government was responsive to the various
issues and concerns raised by the Bank team and management and reacted promptly to address them.
Concerning the BTC, the government postponed the decision to cancel the subproject as the Bank suggested
since it was expecting a possible turnaround at the institution. In the absence of critical institutional reform
measures, the turn around was not feasible.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PCU played an important role in facilitating implementation of project activities. It worked closely
with the MOC in the preparation of proposals for the New-subprojects component and maintained close
coordination with the various sub-project teams. Closely monitoring the MGF subproject was a major
contribution of the PCU, and PCU members often participated at MGF Board meetings. It interacted with
exporters, trade associations and other project beneficiaries on a regular basis to identify and discuss
export constraints.     The PCU also prepared several export-related papers and collaborated in the
dissemination of important studies that were produced under the New Subproject component. The PCU
was very diligent in producing monthly Implementation Reports, quarterly Project Management Reports,
and other status reports as requested by the MOC. Towards the end of the project, however, it faced some
difficulties in monitoring the customs administration component, implemented by NBR, due to
inter-ministerial coordination issues.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. Against a difficult institutional
reform context, the government remained committed to the project and its core development objectives.
Despite the limited progress achieved at the BTC, the government proceed with trade liberalization at a
gradual pace during project implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Implementation:

   l The project implementation period should be defined in accordance with the complexities of project
         activities. Three years was too short a period to implement the activities envisioned under the
         project. Either the project period should have been expanded or the project's scope should have
         been reduced.

   l The project demonstrated that conducting main procurement activities in advance facilitates project
         implementation. It also showed that slow disbursements are common in the early implementation
         stages and that these trends can be corrected once the project enters a more mature implementation
         stage.

   l It is better to design output-based contracts rather than large lump-sum contracts for the whole
         project period. This arrangement would give more flexibility to the implementing agency to adapt
         project activities to the changing environment and promote greater accountability of consultants.

   l Whenever more than one agency is involved in project implementation, it is critical to define



                                                    - 16 -

        coordination arrangements up-front. For example, having the MOC as the lead Ministry for the
        project and the Customs department under the Ministry of Finance created a number of
        complexities during the implementation stage.
MOC:

    l Despite the positive performance of the PCU, project design should have envisioned the creation of
        a small Policy Unit within the MOC that could continue conducting analytical studies following
        project completion.
Customs:

    l Continuous changes in leadership are bound to generate disruptions in project implementation.
        Staff rotation policies within NBR should have been reexamined prior to initiating project
        implementation.

    l A project director with staff dedicated full-time to the project is essential for the successful
        implementation of difficult components.

    l A close working relationship between consultants and NBR staff from the beginning of project
        implementation can lead to a successful transfer of know-how, even in complex institutional
        environments.

    l In future NBR reforms, it will be critical to bring as many stakeholders as possible into the
        modernization process, especially the private sector, and place greater emphasis on disseminating
        results to stakeholders. Private sector participation will generate greater momentum, thereby
        facilitating reform implementation.

BTC:

    l Strong ownership at the Ministry level is not sufficient to achieve successful reforms at the agency
        level; strong commitment at the agency level is also a prerequisite for succesful implementation.

    l Considering the limited capacity of BTC, the scope of the component should have been more
        modest and some essential institutional changes should have been implemented prior to initiating
        project activities.

    l In view of the role assigned to the organization, it will be critical to appoint eminent professionals
        in international trade and economics to the Commission so as to make it an effective think tank for
        the government. Some important changes in this direction have already taken place in recent years
        but the representation of BTC professionals on the Commission should be further enhanced.
        Staffing policies should also be changed to enable the institution to hire and retain well-qualified
        staff.
MGF:

The strong public-private partnership that emerged under MGF can be a model for other initiatives.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8



                                                   - 17 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:
    1. Esperanza Lasagabaster (Task Team Leader)
    2. Sati Achath (Consultant)
    3. Arif Ahamed (ETT)
    4. SAKMA Hye (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:
    1. Charles J.A. Draper (SASFP)
    2. Alfredo Dammert (SASFP)
    3. Esperanza Lasagabaster (SASFP)

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:
    1. Joseph Del Mar Pernia, Sector Director
    2. G.M. Kurshid Alam, Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
    3. Charles Draper, Former Task Manager
    4. Mr. Md. Sirajul Islam, Additional Secretary and Project Director, MOC, and other MOC staff
    5. David Holborne, Project Director, PCU
    6. Ali Ahmed, Member Customs, NBR, and other NBR staff
    7. Ian Thomas, UNCTAD
    8. Md. Reazul Islam, DFID




                                                  - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
(A) Progress in export growth &
diversification:
(i) increases in exports' share of GDP (which Exports 11.7% of GDP in 1998                      Exports rose from 11.7 percent of GDP in
itself should grow faster as a result),                                                         1998 to 13.4 percent in 2003/04.
(ii) increases in net value added in export
production,
(iii) declines in product/market concentration
indices.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Component I. PMDS
1 (a) MGF disbursements:
(i) to individual firms with observable results (i) $4 million by June 2001                     Total disbursements of nearly US$11 million
or good prospects;                                                                              by June 2004.
(ii) subsector programs implemented and          (ii) 2 programs (utilizing up to US$2 million)
appreciated by firms
1 (b) Other product and market development                                                      Three Business Promotion Councils on ICT,
support (indicative, depends on subprojects                                                     Leather and Light Engineering are operational
to be identified):                                                                              and have conducted a number of studies and
(i) Satisfactory certification, standards and/or (i) 2 subsectors                               training activities relevant to their sector. An
testing arrangements for n subsectors;                                                          ICT marketing office has been set up in
(ii) Graduates of courses deemed high                                                           Santa Clara, California, to assist the fledgling
priority by their firms;                         (ii) 200 graduates                             ICT industry.

                                                                                                The BFTI has been set up as an independent
                                                                                                institute to facilitate research and advocacy
                                                                                                needs on trade policy and provide training on
                                                                                                relevant trade issues to public and private
                                                                                                sector. Three training courses on WTO
                                                                                                issues have been conducted and a number
                                                                                                of policy briefings have been produced for
                                                                                                MOC.

                                                                                                Formulation of a comprehensive Post-MFA
                                                                                                Development Strategy for the RMG Sector.
Component II 2.a Customs administration          Reduce percent of physically inspected         Activities completed by NBR under Policy
modernization-                                   import consignments                            Matters were: (a) updating of legal and
Phase 1                                          Reduce import or export clearance              operative tariffs; (b) amendments made to the
                                                 signatures.                                    Customs Act (totaling 72) to provide legal
Streamlining of export and related import                                                       cover to ASYCUDA++, on-line submission of
clearance procedures                                                                            documents, post audit, duty drawback,
                                                                                                Special Bonded Warehouse and other
                                                                                                procedures; (c) compilation of all SROS into
                                                                                                one volume for publication; (d) creation of
                                                                                                NBR web site; (e) adoption of Single
                                                                                                Administrative document for imports/exports;
                                                                                                and (f) review and rationalization of tariff files
                                                                                                and a system for future updating.

                                                                                                Exports: Significant reductions in the number
                                                                                                of processing desks for assessment of
                                                                                                export consignments (e.g., from 22 to 14 at
                                                                                                Chittagong, largest customs house).
                                                                                                Increased the number of export clearances
                                                                                                within the same day from about 50 percent to
                                                                                                99 percent.

                                                                                                Imports. Reduced inspection of import




                                                                    - 19 -

                                                                                              consignment from 100 percent to 10 percent.

                                                                                              Significant reductions in number of
                                                                                              processing desks for assessment of import
                                                                                              consignments (e.g., from 27 to 13 at
                                                                                              Chittagong customs house, which is the
                                                                                              largest customs house). Important increase
                                                                                              in the number of import clearances within the
                                                                                              same day (e.g., from 19 to 35 percent at
                                                                                              Chittagong).
Installation of ASYCUDA++ and other MIS          Avert Y2K problem                            Averted Y2K problem
capacity                                         ASYCUDA++ or similar system operational      As of 12/2003 ASYCUDA++ is operational at
                                                 by December 2000 and satisfactory            four custom sites (ICD Kamalapur, Dhaka
                                                 performance of other MIS systems.            Airport, Chittagong, and Benapole) and
                                                                                              headquarters. Automated customs systems
                                                                                              introduced at Mongla.
                                                                                              Customs staff trained on use of
                                                                                              ASYCUDA++.
                                                                                              National Training Center established at NBR
                                                                                              headquarters to train customs staff on
                                                                                              ASYCUDA++ and other IT supporting
                                                                                              systems. Trainers have been capacitated.
                                                                                              Established centralized database with all
                                                                                              trade and customs revenue information.
                                                                                              MIS enhancements to ASYCUDA++
                                                                                              developed.
Improved Bonded Warehousing and DEDO             New SBW monitoring system operational by     Established specialized Bond
schemes                                          June 2000; no SBW applicant too hard to      Commissionerate in 2001. Streamlined
                                                 monitor.                                     procedures for issuing licenses. Reviewed
                                                 Phase out cash compensation scheme for       monitoring mechanisms.
                                                 DEDO.                                        Reviewed DEDO schemes and drafted SRO
                                                                                              to support new DEDO scheme.
                                                                                              Developed IT systems to automate (i) revised
                                                                                              DEDO procedures; (ii) licensing of bonded
                                                                                              warehouses; and (iii) monitoring procedures
                                                                                              for bonded warehousing system. Licensing
                                                                                              module already fully operational.
2 (b) Capacity building in protection analysis
and trade cooperation:
(i) BTC staff proficient in protection analysis; (i) 4 staff                                  Technical assistance to the BTC yielded very
(ii) High quality studies and hearings;          (ii) 4 each                                  limited results. Most important outputs
(iii) MOC/BTC staff proficient in cooperation; (iii) 4 staff                                  include (i) Development of Policy Impact
(iv) Supporting data systems.                                                                 Evaluation Methodology and (ii) timely Policy
                                                 (iv) Progress towards fully effective systemsbriefings for Seattle-WTO, DOHA, Cancun
                                                                                              and other high-level trade negotiation
                                                                                              roundtables.
2 (c) Project coordination and development:
(i) Satisfactory major studies on institutional
development;                                     (i) 2 institutional development Studies      The PCU facilitated smooth project
(ii) Satisfactory major studies on export                                                     implementation and produced several studies
constraints;                                     (ii) 2 constraint Studies                    per year, inter alia Survey of Export
(iii) PCU performance;                                                                        Constraints; Study on the Efficiency and
(iv) Subprojects developed.                      (iii) Project Steering Committee and private Effectiveness of Banking and Financial
                                                 clients satisfied                            Services for Exporters; Market Study on
                                                                                              Diversification of Bangladesh Software
                                                                                              Exports; Report on Border Trade with India;
                                                                                              and Report on Transshipment Arrangements.


1End of project




                                                                      - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a: Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

                     Project Component                        Appraisal        Actual      Percenta
                                                               Estimate                      ge of
                                                                                          Appraisal
I. Product and market development support                         29.7          28.1          94.4
(PMDS)
(a) Funding for Matching Grant Facility (MGF)                     24.0          21.9          91.3

(b) MGF subproject (administration and advisory                   4.5           4.4           97.8
services)
(c) New subprojects to be developed                               1.3           1.8          142.5

II. Trade management capacity building (TMCB)                     17.3          14.1          81.3

(a) Customs Modernization, Phase-I subproject (CM-1)              9.6           8.1           83.9

(b) Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation                     4.9           2.7           55.1
subproject (PATC)
(including DFID Trade Policy Capacity Building
Project)
(c) Project Coordination and Development Unit                     2.8           3.3          117.6
subproject (PCU)
Unallocated (contingency and/or additional                        1.8           2.8          157.9
subprojects)
    Total Project Cost                                            48.9          45.0          92.1

* Note: there is no information about DFID budget (US$ 0.85 million. Variances between initial budget
and latest budget due to dollar exchange rate.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 2b: Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)

    Expenditure                   Procurement Method                               Procurement Method
     Categories                    Appraisal Estimate                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                       ICB      NCB      Other    NBF      Total      ICB        NCB       Other    NBF      Total
1 Works                         0.38                       0.38                  0.54                        0.54
                                (0.34)                    (0.34)                (0.48)                      (0.48)

2 Goods                2.50     0.62      0.50             3.62                  2.19                        2.19
                      (2.10)    (0.50)   (0.41)           (3.01)                (1.76)                      (1.76)

3 Services                               18.13             18.13     17.29                                   17.29
                                        (15.29)           (15.29)    (15.50)                                (15.50)

4 Misc.                                  24.00             24.00                           21.90             21.90
(a) Matching                            (12.00)           (12.00)                         (10.95)           (10.95)
Grants
(b) Incremental                           0.09             0.09                            0.23              0.23
Staff and Operating                      (0.06)           (0.06)                           (0.14)           (0.14)
Cost                                       bv
© Unallocated                             1.78             1.78                            2.81              2.81
                                         (1.30)           (1.30)                           (2.81)           (2.81)
Total                  2.50     1.00     44.50             48.00     17.29       2.73      24.94             44.96
                      (2.10)    (0.84)  (29.07)           (32.00)    (15.50)    (2.24)    (13.90)           (31.64)



     * Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures,
     consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The
     procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to
     be explained in footnotes to the table.

     ** It does not include cofinancing by DFID




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 2C: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalents)

Component               Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage of
                    IDA    GOB        Co-     Total   Appraisal
                                   financier
I. (PMDS)            16.4     0.7       11.0   28.1          94.4
MGF Funding          11.0     0.5       11.0   21.9          91.3
MGF                   3.8     0.2                4.4         97.8
administration
New subprojects       1.6                        1.8        142.5
TMCB                 12.5     1.6              14.1          81.3
CAM-1                 7.2     0.9                8.1         83.9
PATC                  2.4     0.3                2.7         55.1
PCU                   2.9     0.4                3.3        117.6
Unallocated           2.8                        2.8        157.9
Total Project        31.6     2.4       11.0   45.0          92.1
Cost




                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Supervision
              09/16/1999               3    Task Team Leader; Co-Task              S               S
                                            Leader; Cluster Leader
                                            (Economist)
              02/10/2000               6    Task Team Leader; Cluster              S               S
                                            Leader (Economist); Matching
                                            Grants Specialist; Procurement
                                            Team Leader; Customs/Trade
                                            Specialists (Economist); Finacial
                                            Management Specialist
              10/16/2000              10    Task Team Leader; Co-Task              S               S
                                            Leader; Matching Grants
                                            Specialist; Financial
                                            Management Specialist;
                                            Customs/Trade Specialists
                                            (Economist); Procurement Team
                                            Leader; Cluster Leader
                                            (Economist); SASFP-BD Office
                                            Manager; Team Assistant;
                                            DFID-BD Economist; DFID-BD
                                            1st Secretary
              01/25/2001               7    Task Team Leader; Co-Task              S               S
                                            Leader; Financial Management
                                            Specialist; Customs/Trade
                                            Specialists (Economist);
                                            SASFP-BD Office Manager;
                                            Team Assistant; DFID-BD
                                            Economist;
              12/10/2001                    Task Leader; PSD Specialist; .         S               S
                                            Economist
              06/16/2002               1    Task Team Leader                       S               S
              10/26/2002               3    Task Team Leader; PSD                  S
                                            Specialist; Trade Policy Specialts

              05/18/2003               3    Task Team Leader; PSD                  S               S
                                            Specialist
              01/20/2004               5    Task Team Leader; PSD                  S               S
                                            Specialist; Customs/Trade
                                            Specialists (Economist);
                                            Financial Management Specialist

 ICR
              01/20/2004               1     Task Team Leader                      S               S




                                             - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                          140.3                         491.1
  ICR                                     8.7                          30.5
  Total                                149.1                         521.6




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Mid-Term Evaluation Reports, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.
2. QAG Evaluation
3. Project Progress Reports.
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated December 27, 2004; and
5. Project Appraisal Document for Bangladesh Export Diversification Project, dated May 10, 1999
   (Report No. 19250-BD) and Development Credit      Agreement between GOB & IDA (Credit
   No.3229)
6. Key Documents produced by PCU and consultants including:
  l Final Report on Border Trade with India by PCU
  l The Business Environment in Bangladesh ­ Results from a Private Sector Survey
  l Final Report on Transshipment Arrangement by PCU : Volumes I, II
  l Report on Impact of SAARC Cumulation Agreement on Bangladesh RMG and Textile Sectors and
      on the Overall Economy of Bangladesh
  l Preliminary Study of the Bangladesh Ready Made Garment Sector by PCU : Volumes I, II, III
  l Annual Reports on CAM 1
  l Reports on PATC
  l Final Report on A Market Study on Diversification of Bangladesh Software Exports by PCU
  l Summary of the Findings of A Market Study on Diversification of Bangladesh Software Export by
      PCU
  l TAPP (Revised) Document
  l Report of the Export Related National Committee's 9th Meeting regarding setting up of
      Bangladesh Foreign Trade Institute (Bangla)
  l Functional Test and Installation Report of CIMS
  l Progress Reports and Evaluation Reports by PCU
  l Report on the Implementation of CAM 1 by Implementation Manager
  l MGF Final Comprehensive Report : August 1999 to October 2003 by TDI Ireland
  l A Study on the Efficiency and Effectiveness of banking and Financial Services for Exporters by
      PCU




                                               - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

      Partner Comments:

      (a) Borrower/implementing agency:

      Introduction

      The Development objectives of BDXDP were to increase the rate of growth, diversification and
      value addition of exports. The Project objectives were to improve exporters performance, and
      remove constraints to export growth. The project supported direct assistance to exporters and
      improvement in the export business environment. Originally scheduled to be completed in 36
      moths, i.e. June 2002, BDXDP was extended to December 2003 and subsequently to June 2004. It
      started with four sub-projects which were later increased to twelve. The sub-projects were:

          ·   Matching Grant Facility
          ·   Post MFA Development Strategy
          ·   Development of Business Promotion councils
          ·   Creation of National Trade Portal
          ·   Customs Administration Modernisation
          ·   ASYCUDA Trade Information Project
          ·   Project Co-ordination and Development Unit
          ·   Protection Analysis and Trade Cooperation
          ·   Strengthening of the ITO wing and WTO Cell of the Ministry of Commerce
          ·   ICT Business Center in USA
          ·   Bangladesh Foreign Trade Institute
          ·   Capacity Building of EPB

      The Administration, Planning and Implementation of project activities is co-ordinated by Ministry
      of Commerce with the assistance of Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU).There were project directors
      from the relevant counterpart organisations for each sub-project. MGF was overseen by a board
      with a majority of private sector members. PCU assisted MOC to monitor project progress, and
      prepared quarterly Project Management Reports, progress tracking reports and export performance
      review, in addition to the reports of individual sub-projects. There was a mid-term review and a
      final evaluation was also conducted by an international consulting firm.

      Project Design and Implementation

      The planned activities were more or less well designed to achieve the project objectives, with the
      exception of PATC. The original work plans for CAM-1 and PATC were very detailed, specifying
      and quantifying activities as well as outputs and objectives. This was designed to ensure
      accountability and facilitate monitoring. But the lack of flexibility and ability to adapt to changing
      circumstances over the life of the project was a disadvantage. However, there was a fundamental
      flaw in the setting up of the CAM-1 project. The work done by the private contractor on
      developing the Customs Management Information Systems (CMIS) was meant to complement the
      upgraded ASYCUDA system installed by UNCTAD. Yet illogically the CMIS work started 18
      months before the ASYCUDA work and in the event proved to be largely incompatible with



                                                 - 30 -

ASYCUDA. In the case of the MGF the detailed planning, and the preparation of the statement of
Policies and Operating Procedures (SPOP), was very positive. There was detailed specification of
the organisation, structure and supervision of the sub-project, but scope left for a wide variety of
market and product development activities. This was an innovative project controlled by a board
with a majority of members drawn from the private sector, and the detailed planning made an
important contribution to its smooth operation.

MOC was the lead ministry. Technical assistance for the main sub-projects was provided by four
international consultant firms, each reporting to a different government agency (or in the case of
MGF to the board), and with no lead consultant. So neither on the government side nor amongst
the consultants was there a person responsible for the overall conduct of the project. Consultants
for the main sub-projects were required to provide their own project office facilities. The
monitoring arrangements and obligations were not spelt out in the consultant contracts, which
created problems, especially at the start of the project, and particularly in the case of CAM-1,
implemented by NBR, and not directly supervised by MOC, as other sub-projects were.

ACHIEVEMENTS

The Matching Grant Facility, the major component of the BDXDP was established to grant assist
Bangladeshi owned private sector firms (a) to develop internal capabilities through the use of
external business services and (b) to become market proactive through intensive foreign market
exploration. The objective was to enable participating firms to enhance their international
competitiveness and thereby increase exports.

Under the scheme grants were provided to firms on a reimbursable basis, to cover 50% of expenses
incurred in implementing non-operating activities, which were carried out under an MGF approved
export development plan. Activities ranged from foreign market visits to use of consultancy
services for product development, skill enhancement, company strengthening etc. Grants were
provided to Bangladeshi owned firms across all sectors of the economy. Grants were provided on a
first come first served basis and were subject to availability of funds. Grantee firms were
reimbursed grant amounts upon completion of planned and approved activities and submission of
proof of completion.

The MGF, which commenced operations in August 1999, continued till October 2003 when it was
naturally terminated. With limited funds at its disposal the programme was not able to meet the
claims of all grantees who carried out activities approved under the scheme. At the end of the
four-year period, a large number of claims remained unpaid.

To honour commitments made to MGF grantees who have genuinely carried out approved
activities and submitted their claims within the deadline, the GOB with the approval of World
Bank (WB) arranged for an additional fund of US$ 1.2 million under the BDXDP. A new MGF
team was constituted for a period of two months to process these claims for payment against this
additional fund.




                                           - 31 -

Results of operations for the MGF programme over the project period are presented below:

Period of Operation               August 1999 to October 2003       10 April 2004 to 9 June 2004
No. of Grants Approved                          1,057                               --
No. of Grantees                                  782                                --
Total Amount Approved                      US$ 26.0 million                         --
Total Fund Available                       US$ 10.0 million                 US$ 1.2 million
Total Amount Disbursed                     US$ 9.99 million                US$ 0.917 million
Total Claims Paid                               3,636                              357
Total Grantees Paid                              719

The evaluations confirmed that the matching grants have had a profound effect on participating
firms performance and potential for growth. One important effect has been the introduction of
business and market planning, which very few of the participating firms had experience of prior to
preparing the plans for their grant applications. The existence of the MGF has meant that many
firms, for the first time, got involved in active overseas marketing, and in using outside expertise
for technical and management training, for technical, product and market development, and for ISO
certification. The MGF method ensures that these outsourced services are economically tailored to
the needs of the individual firms.

The MGF board provided a good example of a trade promotion programme being effectively
managed through co-operation between the private and the public sector. In terms of the impact on
export firms' performance, value for money in delivering sup- porting services to exporters, and
development of a market for business services, the results surpassed expectations. The
management weaknesses in export firms found by the MGF management and which contributed to
the large number of projects which were planned but not implemented have been confirmed by
several studies (by PCU and others). It was found that lack of professional management, of formal
management structures, and of trained managers, is a major constraint to the growth of
Bangladeshi export firms.

The PATC consultants prepared a 'Review of Relative Protection' on behalf of GOB, and position
papers to support GOB's participation in international trade meetings; completed a number of
sector studies; and gave a series of courses for BTC and MOC personnel on international trade and
trade economics. However, very little of the expected institutional development has been achieved.
This is due to insufficient counter- part commitment and resources, in particular in the quantity and
quality of management and professional staff in BTC but also to some deficiency in the quantity
and appropriateness of the consultant's experts, especially in MIS. Lessons have been learnt from
the poor results from the PATC which have lead to the launch of more viable approaches to the
development of expertise in trade policy and management e.g. the establishment of BFTI.

Customs legislation, regulations, and tariffs were rationalised. ASYCUDA++ is operative at 5
customs sites and direct trader input and the closed loop system are operative at 2 sites (ICD and
Benapole). Clearing procedures have been simplified and speeded up. In spite of the poor results
from the CMIS, through automation, random selection, physical separation of customs officials
and clearers, and risk management, the opportunity for, and incidence of harassment by customs
officers has been reduced.




                                            - 32 -

Eight new Product and Market Development Sub-projects were developed, including the RMG
strategy, ICT sales office in Silicon Valley, business promotion councils and a contribution to the
setting up of the BFTI. Individually the new sub-projects were minor components of BDXDP. The
total cost of all eight was US$ 2.30 million. But the impact of the innovative approaches adopted,
especially in promoting closer cooperation between government and the private sector, and in the
RMG and ICT industries where there was a special focus, was significant.

There has been no increase in the rate of growth of exports since the project started in 1999. In fact
in 2001/2002 the US$ value of exports declined. But during that period there has been a massive
downturn in world trade, and downward pressure on prices, and even in 2001/2002 volume of
exports was up. Neither has there yet been a noticeable diversification away from ready-made
garments, although the growth has been in knitted garments and not in wovens, which earlier had
dominated garment exports. The growth of knitted exports is positive for export value added. In
2001/2002 value added of knitteds was almost equal to that of wovens even though gross value of
knitted exports was less than half. The fact that there has not yet been an improvement in export
performance, especially during a period of weak markets globally, is not surprising as the effect on
exports of the improvements in export company performance, facilitation, and trade policy and
management may be expected to take some time before impacting on overall export performance.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Some lessons may be learnt from the successes and failures of BDXDP:

   l Time and effort spent on planning projects -consulting stake holders, employing expertise,
        researching alternative counterpart arrangements etc. -make an important contribution to
        ensuring a positive outcome
   l Objectives and project plans must be realistic and sustainable, taking into account the
        institutional framework, counterpart capacity and resources, and time scale
   l In the case of institutional capacity building, project approval and provision of project
        inputs should be linked at each stage, to compliance by local institutions, with provision of
        counterpart support and resources
   l Improvement in overall export performance is a long-term objective; impact assessment
        should be based on more immediately discernible criteria plus long-term follow-up
        monitoring of export trends.
   l Impact assessment requires formal baseline studies of agreed indicators to be conducted
        prior to the start of project activities.
   l Restructuring of BTC has remained incomplete. Intellectual assimilation of the required
        skills, as perceived, has not transpired. Frequent changes of BTC management have not
        helped. Role clarity of BTC s required, along with all the organizations involved in export
        promotion.

Future initiatives should build on the achievements and experience gained from the
Matching Grant Fund and other sub-projects including:

   l Further improvement of the Matching Grant Facility methodology;
   l Promotion of export diversification through development and implementation of sector
        specific policies and strategies;
   l Further development of professionalism in trade policy and relations, especially with




                                              - 33 -

         regard to WTO procedures and compliance;
   l Development of export industry oriented business management education and training
   l Capacity building in export standards and certification;
   l Expansion of online trade and market information services;
   l A market Development Fund be continued for exporters with focus on marketing activity
         support, specially for SME category; and
   l Strengthening of institutional support for export sectors, especially joint public/private
         initiatives.

A conclusion of the export constraints study was that sector specific studies, policies, and
strategies, were needed to supplement the analysis and recommendations on constraints common to
all export sectors. The same may be said of the BDXDP as a whole there is a need to focus on
sector specific issues and initiatives following on from BDXDP. BDXDP aimed at improving the
overall business environment as it impacts on exporters. The process has been started under
BDXDP with sector studies by PATC and PCU, development of policy and strategy for the leather
sector, and product and market development sub-projects on RMG/textile strategy, ICT export
promotion, and establishment of business promotion councils.

BDXDP was meant to promote diversification of exports, which at present are heavily dependent
on RMG, and the matching grant fund has supported the promotion of a wide range of traditional
and non-traditional exports. Nevertheless, ensuring the future health of RMG/textile exports is
essential, at the same time as promoting a more diversified basket of exports. There is plenty of
opportunity to diversify product lines and markets within the RMG/textiles sector and in fact such
diversification into higher price brackets and more value added products is essential to the future of
the industry.

BDXDP has had limited success in developing institutional capacity in international trade matters
in the Ministry of Commerce and the Bangladesh Tariff Commission. Nevertheless there is an
urgent need, especially with regard to improving expertise in WTO relations and compliance.

Lack of professional management, and management training, especially industry specific
manufacturing and export marketing courses, is a major constraint, identified by the PCU
constraints, software and RMG studies and through the experience of managing the Matching
Grant Fund. Entry level certificate and degree courses are important, but in-service training to
upgrade the skills of currently employed managers, sales personnel etc. is even more urgently
needed. Some attempts have been made to meet this need through MGF, the business councils and
the RMG sub-project. The Fashion Technology Institute of BGMEA, has been assisted through
MGF. These are all useful initiatives but the capacity for in-service management training focused
on manufacturing, export, and specific industries, needs to be greatly expanded, and upgraded,
based on a national training needs assessment.

Certification for quality, safety, environmental and social standards compliance is becoming more
and more important to exporters as a result of mandatory requirements, consumer campaigns, and
corporate compliance standards in importing countries. The PCU's constraints study identified the
need to improve and expand in-country facilities. At present many samples have to be sent to the
importing or to a third country for mandatory export standards testing. The PCU's institutional
analysis found a need to review the relative roles of public and private standards and testing
organisations. The PCU study on export standards, certification and testing services has identified
the strengths and weaknesses of the present system and proposed a plan of action to address the


                                            - 34 -

problem. The recognition on the part of Bangladesh exporters of the need to comply with both
voluntary and mandatory standards is demonstrated by the number of MGF grants awarded for
export firms to achieve International Standards Organisation (ISO) standards;

There have been several initiatives supported by BDXDP to develop and promote online market
research, business information services, trade portals, and e-commerce generally:

    l BGMEA, supported by MGF, launched a portal for the garment industry
    l The feasibility study and systems analysis for a national trade portal has been completed
    l The PATC project assembled several databases for BTC which should also be made
         available online
    l Discussion papers for the E-commerce Committee of the ICT National Task Force.


There are many different online services and operations which may benefit exporters, ranging from
online market reports, identifying sources and potential customers, to online reverse auctions and
automatic re-ordering. But the uses by businesses of the Internet overlap and share many of the
same tools and skills. Development of online information services and of e-commerce sites should
be planned as two elements of a single programme, to ensure compatibility and interactivity, and to
avoid duplication.

Institutional development will be a' necessary part of any new project on trade development
whether to do with policy and trade relations, product and market development, training, standards,
or trade and market information. The PCU's institutional study found the trade bodies to be weak,
providing little practical support and few services to members, and found government departments
concerned with trade to be lacking in professionalism, and having insufficient resources. The
results of BDXDP sub-projects to upgrade BTC have been disappointing. The PATC project in
BTC did not encompass the radical reform which might have lead to creation of a really effective
organisation. The recent re-organisation of EPB was also too limited in scope.

Given the weaknesses in both the private and public sector organisations the best hope for
developing institutional support for export industries is closer collaboration between the two in
order to exploit their complementary strengths, overcome weaknesses and develop strategies which
have the full support of all the parties who need to make a contribution.

It is necessary to conduct a detailed review of regulations and procedures which affect exporters in
different sectors with a view to rationalisation of the organisation and procedures of the various
agencies concerned e.g. through the proposed computerisation of the register of joint stock
companies, and re-organisation of the export credit guarantee scheme.




                                            - 35 -

- 36 -

