Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3229 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Export Diversification Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 1, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3229 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
Page  2
"12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Audit Committee" means the Committee established by the Borrower in 
order to supervise and monitor the carrying out of the audit activities under the 
Project;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means: (i) in respect of a Service User Matching Grant, a 
beneficiary eligible for receiving a grant in accordance with criteria set out in 
paragraphs 6 (a) and 6 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of a 
Service Development Matching Grant, a beneficiary eligible for receiving a grant in 
accordance with criteria set out in paragraphs 8 (a) and 8 (b) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
"BTC" means the Bangladesh Tariff Commission of the Borrower;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, beginning on July 1 
and ending on June 30;
(f)
"Government Order" means the Government Order dated April 17, 1999, as 
supplemented by Government Order dated May 6, 1999, issued by the Borrower for the 
purpose of establishing the Matching Grant Facility and the MGF Board and setting out 
the mechanisms for the operation of the Matching Grant Facility;
(g)
"Management Contract" means each of the Management Contracts entered into 
by the Borrower through its relevant agencies, with a management contractor for the 
purpose of providing management and advisory services for implementing Parts A.2, B.1, 
B. 2 and C of the Project;
(h)
"Matching Grant" means a Service User Matching Grant or a Service 
Development Matching Grant.
(i)
"Matching Grant Facility" means the Matching Grant Facility established 
by the Borrower pursuant to the Government Order in order to support the objective of 
diversifying and developing exports through the provision of Matching Grants; 
(j)
"MGF Board" means the Board established by the Borrower pursuant to the 
Government Order for the purpose of supervising and operating the Matching Grant 
Facility;
(k) 
"MOC" means the Ministry of Commerce of the Borrower;
(l)
"NBR" means the National Board of Revenue under the administrative 
control of the Internal Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(m)
"PCU" means the Export Diversification Project Coordination and 
Development Unit established by the Borrower as the operational wing of the Technical 
Committee;
(n)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan of the Borrower, dated May 6, 
Page  3
1999, setting out, inter alia, details on Project implementation, including indicators 
for monitoring and evaluating the Project;
(o)
"Project Management Report" means each of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
"Service Development Matching Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower out of the Matching Grant Facility under Part A.1 (b) of the 
Project to a Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 8 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(q)
"Service User Matching Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made 
by the Borrower out of the Matching Grant Facility under Part A.1 (a) of the Project 
to a Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(r)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34 (Rev. 3 (1986)) and such other future revisions as adopted by the Borrower and 
agreed by the Association;
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(t)
"Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures" means the Statement of 
Policies and Operating Procedures issued by the Borrower under the Government Order 
setting out the details for operating the Matching Grant Facility by the MGF board; 
(u)
"Steering Committee" means the Committee established by the Borrower for 
overseeing the implementation of the Project and providing policy guidance; and
(v)
"Technical Committee" means the Committee established by the Borrower for 
purposes, inter alia, of facilitating and monitoring the implementation of the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Matching Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made 
(or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
Page  4
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2009 and ending May 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out through its relevant 
departments and agencies, including the MGF Board, MOC, BTC and NBR, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
and trade practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
Page  5
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
acting through the MGF Board, shall provide Matching Grants under the Matching Grant 
Facility in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in paragraphs 5,6,7 and 8 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, acting through the MGF Board, exercise its rights in 
relation to each Matching Grant in such manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and of the Association;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.01, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the activities to 
be carried out by the Borrower under Part A. 3 of the Project shall meet at least one 
of the following eligibility criteria:
(i)
the activity shall contribute directly to the diversification of 
export products or markets, to increased market competitiveness, 
or to increasing value added;
(ii)
the activity shall be complementary to other Project activities;
(iii)
the activity shall focus on the development of sustainable 
capacity and expertise for supporting export production and/or 
marketing, especially in the private sector or in the area of 
exports requiring public/private cooperation; and/or
(iv)
the activity shall strengthen public capacity in trade management.
(b)
In respect of each activity to be carried out under Part A. 3 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its approval all details in 
respect of the eligibility criteria to be met as set out in paragraph (a) of this 
section and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the activities 
approved for financing pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 
under standards and arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
Page  6
agencies of the Borrower, including the Matching Grant Facility, responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, 
which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and
 (ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Government Order shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or 
financial condition of the Matching Grant Facility or the MGF Board or their ability 
to provide Matching Grants financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Matching Grant Facility or 
the MGF Board or for the suspension of operations of any of them.
(c)
The Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed and waived without the prior written approval 
of the Association.
(d)
Any provision of any Management Contract shall have been amended, 
suspended, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
implementation of any part of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the events 
specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of Section 
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary/ 
Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address: 
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Quazi Mesbahuddin Ahmed
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Part A: 
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Matching Grants
   8,850,000
50%
(2) 
Civil works
     250,000
90%
(3) 
Goods
   2,210,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory cost); 
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(4)
Consultants’ services
  10,770,000
100%
and training
(5) 
Incremental staff and
      45,000
100% through June 30, 
operating costs
2000; 80% through 
June 30, 2001; and 
60% thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
   1,475,000
TOTAL
  23,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  9
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental staff and operating costs" means costs incurred by 
the Borrower after the date of this Agreement in respect of additional staff and 
incremental operating expenses of PCU, MOC, BTC and NBR required for purposes of 
implementing the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of SDR 500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 1, 1998; and
(b)
in respect of a Matching Grant unless the Matching Grant has been made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in paragraphs 5,6,7 and 8 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Part B:
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in 
Bangladesh Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Except as 
the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. Payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:
(i)
the amount so requested; and
(ii) 
the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the 
amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $ 6,400,000.  Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
Page  10
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to accelerate the Borrower’s integration 
into the world economy by expanding export production through product and market 
diversification; (b) to improve the entrepreneurial skills of exporters; and (c) to 
remove critical business environment constraints to product and market 
diversification, including increased value added to industry and commerce through 
enhancing capacity and implementing reforms in trade policy and revenue 
administration.
The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Product and Market Development Support
1.
Establishment and operation of a Matching Grant Facility, which shall provide 
Matching Grants consisting of:
(a)
Service User Matching Grants to exporters for enhancing export 
competitiveness; and
(b)
Service Development Matching Grants to export service providers for 
building capacity to supply export development services.
2.
Provision of management and advisory services to the Matching Grant Facility.
3.
Identification and implementation of activities to strengthen selected private, 
public and joint private and public initiatives to support export product and market 
development services.
Part B:
Trade Management Capacity Building
1.
Modernizing the Borrower’s customs administration through:
Page  11
(a)
designing and introducing streamlined procedures for the clearance of 
exports and of imports associated with exports;
(b)
installing ASYCUDA "+ +" or similar system and extending its scope to all 
customs entry points, and taxpayer access, and developing and installing management 
information systems for NBR;
(c)
designing and introducing monitoring procedures to enable more liberal 
availability of the special bonded warehouse scheme of the Borrower, including for 
partial and indirect exporters;
(d)
designing and introducing new procedures to facilitate:
(i) 
payment of custom duties, value-added tax and special duty 
drawback immediately upon export shipment; and
(ii) 
easy receipt of duty drawback by indirect exporters;
(e)
designing, piloting and planning the wider implementation of new 
procedures and organizational arrangements conducive to efficient customs and other 
tax administration; and
(f)
provision of consultants’ and administration services, training, 
equipment and renovation works for implementing Part B. 1 of the Project.
2.
Carrying out a program of trade protection analysis and trade cooperation 
capacity building consisting of:
(a)
assisting BTC in carrying out trade protection measurement and analysis 
on a regular basis with the aim of formulating and implementing appropriate trade 
policies;
(b)
strengthening the capacities of BTC and MOC to handle trade cooperation 
arrangements at the bilateral, regional and multilateral levels, including: 
(i) 
monitoring the World Trade Organization Agreements in order to 
derive full advantage of opportunities that have emerged from the 
Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations and to conform to 
its rules; and
(ii) 
identifying key areas for regional cooperation with particular 
focus on export promotion;
(c)
strengthening the technical capabilities of BTC and MOC in order to 
enhance their impact on trade policy and management;
(d)
designing and introducing a management information system to support Part 
B. 2 of the Project; and
(e)
provision of consultants’ and administration services, training and 
equipment for implementing Part B. 2 of the Project.
Part C:
Coordination, Development and Evaluation
1.
Establishment and operation of a PCU for:
(a)
facilitating the development and implementation of the Project through 
the provision of coordination, accounting and procurement services and technical 
advice;
(b)
carrying out monitoring and reporting related to Project progress and 
performance;
(c)
identifying and analyzing export constraints and recommending feasible 
solutions;
(d)
reviewing and advising on the structure of BTC and on institutional 
mechanisms to provide export support services;
(e)
assisting in the identification and development of activities under Part 
A. 3 of the Project; and
Page  12
(f)
preparing a mechanism to institutionalize its functions after the end of 
the Project period.
2.
Carrying out evaluations of the impact of the Project in achieving its 
development objectives.
3.
Hiring of external auditors for carrying out annual audits referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
4.
Provision of consultants’ and administration services for implementing Part C of 
the Project.
*       *       *      *      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.
The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in 
accordance with the procedures and performance and monitoring indicators set out in 
the PIP and shall not amend such PIP or waive any provision thereof, which in the 
opinion of the Association, shall materially or adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain the PCU under 
terms of reference, composition, functions, powers, resources and operational 
procedures satisfactory to the Association. The PCU shall be responsible, inter alia, 
for:
(a)
monitoring and evaluating the overall implementation of the Project, 
including ensuring that budgetary, procurement, contracting, disbursement, 
administrative, accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the PIP;
(b)
tracking inputs, processes, outputs and impact of all Project activities;
(c)
assisting in the development of activities to be financed under Part A. 3 
of the Project;
(d)
analyzing export constraints and the need for institutional 
reorganization for export growth and trade management; and
(e)
assembling and furnishing to the Association quarterly Project 
implementation reports.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, with composition, 
powers, functions, resources and operational procedures satisfactory to the 
Association:
(a)
the Steering Committee which shall be responsible for overseeing Project 
implementation and providing policy guidance to the Borrower and its relevant 
agencies;
(b)
the Technical Committee which shall be responsible for facilitating and 
monitoring the implementation of the Project; and
(c)
the Audit Committee which shall be responsible for supervising and 
monitoring the carrying out of the audit activities under the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, with composition, 
powers, functions, resources and operational procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, the MGF Board, which shall, inter alia, be responsible for: (i) 
monitoring the overall direction and performance of the Matching Grant Facility and 
the performance of the consultants managing the Facility; and (ii) recommending 
changes in the design and execution of the Matching Grant Facility as may be required 
during the implementation of the Project.  The Borrower shall not take any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the autonomous functioning of the MGF Board in 
Page  13
accordance with the provisions of the Government Order and the Statement of Policies 
and Operating Procedures.
Matching Grants
5.
Matching Grants shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms 
and conditions set out in the Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures and in 
this Agreement.
Special Procedures for Service User Matching Grants
6.
(a)
Private firms not majority-owned or controlled by the Borrower or its 
agencies, and NGOs in the Borrower’s territories, producing or intending to produce 
goods or services for export and registered under the relevant laws of the Borrower 
(Beneficiaries) shall be eligible to apply for Service User Matching Grants.
(b)
For a Beneficiary applicant to qualify for a Service User Matching Grant, 
it must:
(i)
have a plan to enhance the international competitiveness of its 
products;
(ii) 
provide evidence, satisfactory to the MGF Board, indicating its 
ability to contribute from its own resources 50% of the funds 
required to carry out the plan;
(iii)
incorporate in the plan’s design, features enabling the plan’s 
outputs to be measured and verified;
(iv) 
furnish with its application such other evidence as the MGF Board 
shall, with the prior agreement of the Borrower and the 
Association, reasonably request; and
(v) 
furnish evidence that the plan does not include activities of a 
military or paramilitary nature or activities in the following 
SITC groups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice 
to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
718
   -
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated 
for nuclear 
reactors
(c)
For a plan to be eligible, the activities to be financed under such plan 
may include, inter alia, the use of external business development services, or travel 
to expose personnel of the Beneficiary to alternative techniques and technologies or 
market exploration tours, technical consultancy services, and the preparation and 
shipment of samples.
(d)
Except as the MGF Board and the Association may otherwise agree, Service 
User Matching Grants shall not be made to any Beneficiary applicant in an aggregate 
amount exceeding $200,000 equivalent.
7.
Service User Matching Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower, acting 
through the MGF Board, shall obtain, by Letter of Agreement with the Beneficiary, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association, and the Borrower, 
including to the extent that it shall be appropriate the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the proposal or program to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Service User Matching Grant with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial employment 
and environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
Page  14
(b)
require that: (i) any services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be obtained at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as their quality and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; and (ii) such services to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
proposal or program;
(c)
obtain all such information as the Association or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the 
proposal or program; and
(d)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its agreement with the Borrower.
Special Procedures for Service Development Matching Grants
8.
(a)
Any legal entity, not receiving subventions or budgetary allocations from 
the Borrower towards its regular operating costs, including business or industry 
associations, and NGOs (Beneficiaries) wishing to develop services to sell to 
Beneficiaries eligible to receive a Service User Matching Grant (Eligible Firms), 
shall be eligible to apply for a Service Development Matching Grant.
(b)
For a Beneficiary applicant to qualify for a Service Development Matching 
Grant, it must: 
(i) 
have a plan to support the development of new or the improvement 
of existing services aimed at assisting firms in enhancing the 
international competitiveness of their products; and
(ii)
incorporate in the plan features including, expressions of 
interest from the Eligible Firms to demonstrate that the services 
to be developed are likely to be salable and to assist the 
Eligible Firms in enhancing the international competitiveness of 
their products.
(c)
Except as the MGF Board and the Association may otherwise agree, Service 
Development Matching Grants shall not be made to any business or industry association 
in an aggregate amount exceeding $200,000 equivalent, and in the case of any other 
entity in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000 equivalent.
(d)
All other procedures specified in paragraphs 6 (b) and (c) and 7 above, 
relating to Service User Matching Grants, shall apply mutatis mutandis to Service 
Development Matching Grants.
Trade Management
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
annually direct the BTC to carry out the analysis on trade protection 
referred to in Part B.2 (a) of the Project;
(b)
by March 31 of each of 2000, 2001 and 2002, in cooperation with the 
Association carry out reviews of relative trade protection among all sectors of the 
economy based on the analysis referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
incorporate measures, satisfactory to the Association, towards achieving 
a more neutral regime in the Fiscal Year 1999-2000 budget of the Borrower and in 
subsequent budgets;
10.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
no later than June 30, 2001, submit to its Parliament draft amendments to 
the Customs Act and other relevant laws in order to establish new structural, cultural 
and technical approaches to revenue administration based on the designs made under 
Part B.1 of the Project; and
(b)
take measures, satisfactory to the Association, to modernize the revenue 
administration systems of the Borrower in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory 
to the Association.
Staffing
Page  15
11.
The Borrower shall ensure that all recipients of training financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be permitted to continue in their positions for a 
reasonable time after completion of training in order to achieve the objectives of 
such training.
Mid-term Review
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
appoint consultants by October 31, 2000 with terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Association, to conduct an independent evaluation of the actual 
and expected impact of the Project activities undertaken during the period preceding 
the date of the report referred to in clause (b) of this paragraph, and to prepare and 
furnish to the Association and the Borrower by November 30, 2000 a report integrating 
the results of such evaluation; and
(d)
review with the Association by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Final Evaluation
13.
The Borrower shall appoint consultants with terms of reference, satisfactory to 
the Association, to conduct an independent evaluation of the actual and expected 
impact of the Project activities undertaken by June 30, 2002, based, inter alia, on 
the indicators referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 12 of this Schedule, and to 
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Borrower a report integrating the 
results of such evaluation.
Reporting
14.
The Borrower shall, no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
beginning with the quarter ending on September 30, 1999, submit to the Association a 
report detailing the progress in implementing the Project.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in 
September 1997, and in January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section 1.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  16
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) 
of this paragraph 1.
(i)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid 
packages to attract national bidders.
(ii)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(aa)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one 
national newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days 
prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
(bb)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, 
to all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(cc)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in 
the bidding process;
(dd)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not 
carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, 
if a registration process is required, a foreign firm 
declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity of registering, without let or 
hindrance;
(ee)
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately 
after the deadline for submission of bids;
(ff)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a 
comparison with an official estimate without the prior 
concurrence of the Association;
(gg)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
(hh)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the 
lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(ii)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the 
Association’s prior concurrence;
(jj)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance 
Page  17
security as indicated in the bidding/contract documents;
(kk)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed by the Association. 
(ll)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, 
and a contractor’s performance security shall apply only to 
the specific contract under which it was
furnished;
(mm)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium 
or discount over the estimated cost;
(nn)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless 
justified by exceptional circumstances; and
(oo)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery 
of the bids.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $410,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts in each year of 
Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project for that year, 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) the first two contracts for civil works 
and goods procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule irrespective of value the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  18
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget or Single Source
Services relating to audits and impacts evaluations estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of either paragraph 3.5 or paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individuals Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals in each year 
of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project for that year shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
