                                                  Document of
                                                 The World Bank

                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                     ReportNo: T7680 - WBZ




                                             TECHNICALANNEX

                                                       ONA

                                              PROPOSEDGRANT

                                  INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$lO MILLION

                                                     TO THE

                                              WEST BANK GAZA

                                                    FORAN

                     AVIAN INFLUENZAPREVENTIONAND CONTROLPROJECT

                                       UNDERTHE FRAMEWORKOF

  GLOBAL PROGRAMFORAVIAN INFLUENZAAND HUMANPANDEMICPREPAREDNESS
                                            AND RESPONSE(GPAI)



                                                 August 15,2006




Water, Environment,SocialandRuralDevelopment Department
MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective August 15,2006)

                        Currency Unit = IsraeliNew Shekel (ILS)
                              4.38 I L S = US$1

                                 FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1-December 3 1


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AI      Avian Influenza
AWPB    Annual Work Program and Budgets
cc      Component Coordinator
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPHL    Central Public Health Laboratories
EC      European Commission
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EQA     Environment Quality Authority
ESSP    Emergency Services Support Project
FA0     Food & Agriculture Organization
FMR     FinancialMonitoringReport
GPAI    Global Program for Avian Influenza
HPAI    Highly pathogenic avian influenza
H5N1    Avian InfluenzaA-type virus
IA      ImplementingAgency
IBRD    InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
ILI     Influenza Like Illnesses
MECIDS  Middle East Consortium onInfection
MNA     Middle East andNorthAfrica
M O A   MinistryofAgriculture
MOEHE   Ministryof Education& Higher Education
MOF     MinistryofFinance
M O H   Ministryof Health
NCAIC   National Emergency Committee for Avian Influenza Control
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
OECD    Organizationfor Economic Co-operation and Development
OIE     World Organization for Animal Health
PA      Palestinian Authority
PALTEL  Palestinian Telecommunications Company
PARC    Palestinian Agricultural ReliefCommittees
PCR     Polymerase Chain Reaction
PEA     Palestinian Environment Authority
PIU     Project ImplementationUnit
PFD     Program Framework Document
POM     Project Operational Manual

PP      Procurement Plan
PPE     Personal ProtectiveEquipment
SA      Special Account
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
TFGWB   Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank
UN     UnitedNations
UNDP    UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
UNFPA   UnitedNations PopulationFund
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
UNRWA   UnitedNations Reliefand Works Agency for Palestine Refugees inthe Near East
UNTF    Avian InfluenzaPrevention and Control Project financed under the Avian and
        Human InfluenzaFacility Trust FundGrant and implementedthrough the UN
        System
USAID   UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment
USD     UnitedStates Dollars
vs      Veterinary Services
WB      World Bank
WBG     West Bank & Gaza
WHO     World Health Organization
WFP     World FoodProgram




                          Vice President: Christiaan J. Poortman
                       Country Director: A. David Craig
        Sector Director/Sector Manager: IngerAnderseduis Constantino
                     Task Team Leader: Husam Abu Dagga


                                               WEST BANKGAZA
                 AVIAN INFLUENZA PREVENTIONAND CONTROL PROJECT

                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                  Page

A.  STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                 ..............................................................................  1
  1. Countryand Sector Issues...............................................................................................................      1
 2.  Rationalefor Bank Involvement.....................................................................................................           2

B
.   DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        ........................................................................................   2
  1. ProjectDevelopmentObjectives andKey Indicators......................................................................                         2
 2.  ProjectComponents........................................................................................................................    2
 3.  ProjectCosts andFinancingInstruments.........................................................................................                5

C.  IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                            ....................................................................................   5
  1. OverallProject OrganizationandManagement..............................................................................                       5
 2.  InstitutionalArrangementsfor Implementation..............................................................................                    6
 3.  FinancialManagementandProcurement........................................................................................                    6
 4.  RetroactiveFinancing......................................................................................................................   8
 5.  MonitoringandEvaluationof Outcomes/Results...........................................................................                        8
 6.  Sustainability,ProjectRisks andMitigation.................................................................................                  10
 7.  Grant ConditionsandEffectiveness...............................................................................................             11

D
.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY         ..............................................................................................................     11
  1. Economic andFinancialAnalyses.................................................................................................              11
 2.  Environmentaland Social Issuesand SafeguardPolicies .............................................................                           11

                                                                                                                                                 14
    Appendix 2: Results FrameworkandMonitoring.............................................................................
    Appendix 1:InternationalandCountryBackground.........................................................................

    Appendix 3: DetailedProject Description.........................................................................................             19
                                                                                                                                                26
    Appendix 4: Project CostsandFinancing..........................................................................................              33
    Appendix 5: ImplementationArrangements......................................................................................
    Appendix 6: FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements ............................................                                     34
                                                                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                                                                 43
    Appendix 8: Environmentaland Social Issues ..................................................................................
    Appendix 7: ProcurementArrangements...........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                 57
    Appendix9: AdditionalBackgroundon Compenation.....................................................................                           59
    Appendix 10:Documentsinthe Project File.....................................................................................                 62

    Map: IBRD33512




                                                                iii


                                            WEST BANK GAZA
                AVIAN INFLUENZA PREVENTIONAND CONTROLPROJECT

                            TECHNICAL ANNEX FORNEW GPAI GRANT

                                MIDDLEEASTAND NORTHAFRICA
   WATER, ENVIRONMENT, SOCIALAND RURALDEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

Date: 0811512006                                      Team Leader: Husam Abu Dagga
Country Director: A. David Craig                       Sectors: General Agriculture (50%); Health(25%); General
Sector Director: IngerAndersen                         InformatiodCommunications (25%).
Lending instrument: Emergency Recovery                 Themes: Natural Disaster Management; Other
IDA Grant                                              Communicable Diseases.
                                                       Environmental Screening Category: B
                                                       Safeguard Screening Category: Partial Assessment




  Source                           Local                       Foreign                        Total
IDA                                  7.0                         3.O                           10.0
Total                                7.0                         3.O                           10.0

                                                   2007         2008       2009
Total IDA                                           5.O          5.0         0
Does the project or new component require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?          Yes: [ ]    No: X
Re$ Section 0 7 of Guidelines
Have these policies been approved by Bank management?                                Yes: [ 3    No: [ ]
Are there any critical risksrated "substantial" or "high"?                           Yes: X      No: [ ]


Does the Project (and/or new components, as applicable) meet the Regional            Yes: X      No: [ ]
criteria for readiness for implementation? Re$ SectionD.7




                                                        iv

DevelopmentObjectiveRe$ SectionB.2
Consistentwith the GPAI, the project developmentobjective is to achievea minimumlevelo f spreadofAI to
humansthroughbetter preparedness, control andresponse; andachievea minimumlevelofincomelossof
targetedfarmers throughcompensation.
Short description[one-sentencesummary of each component]Re$ TAB.2

Component 1: AnimalHealthandVeterinarv Services-This componentwill supportthe preparationand
implementationof highlypathogenicavian influenza(HPAI) preventionandcontainment activities inthe poultry
sector andincludesthe following activities: (a) surveillanceanddiagnostic capacity; (b) cullinganddisposal; and
(c) compensationto farmers for income loss.

Component2: HumanHealth- This componentwill supportactivities aimedat preventingthe spreadofthe AI
virus to humans andwill cover: (a) preventionandhumansafety; (b) strengtheningpublic healthsurveillance
systems; (c) healthsystemresponse; (d) vaccinations; (e) drugtherapy; and(f)medicalservices.

Component3: PublicAwareness andEnvironmentalManagement-This componentwill address two areas of
activitywhere contingency funds will needto meet evolving needs suchas firther activities onpublic awareness
and informationwhich mayhave notbeenaddressedunderComponents1and2 and implementationof an
environmentalrisk managementplan.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ Section0.6
The project triggers OP 4.01 on the EnvironmentAssessment andOP 4.09 onPest Management.

Significant, non-standardconditions, ifany, for: NIA
Re$ Section C.5

Approval:                                           None

Grant Effectiveness:                                (a) The ProjectOperationalManual, satisfactory to the
                                                    Association, hasbeenapprovedbythe Recipient;
                                                    (b) the annual work programfor the first year ofthe project,
                                                    satisfactoryto the Association, has beenapprovedbythe
                                                    Recipient; and
                                                    (c) the SubsidiaryAgreement has beenexecutedonbehalf
                                                    of the Recipient andthe PalestinianAuthority.
Covenantsapplicableto project or component
implementation: NIA




                                                       V

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryand SectorIssues

1.       Conditions for economic revival in West Bank Gaza (WBG) continue to be inhibited by a volatile
political and security situation. Restrictions on the movement o f people and goods, are stifling economic
activity, not least in Gaza where the Karni crossing point - the only commercial crossing point between Gaza
and Israel - has been sealed for significant parts of the past year.           In addition, the PA is facing an
unprecedented liquidity crisis brought about by a confluence of factors, including Israel's withholding of
Palestinian customs revenue, suspension of OECD-donors budget-related disbursements until the new
government meets a number o f political conditions espoused by the Quartet and the reluctance of commercial
banks to lend or provide banking services to the PA. As a result, for the past three months, the PA has been
unable to pay most recurrent costs and has not been able to make payments of public sector salaries since
March 2006 except for some limitedrecent payments to the lowest paid civil servants.

2.       Inthe current fragile conditions, the agricultural sector (and the poultry industrywithin it) offers one
of the more secure sources o f income and nutrition for Palestinians. Data for the 2003/2004 agricultural year
put poultry production (meat and eggs) at around US$125 million, equivalent to roughly one-third of total
animal production.' At the same time, many families, especially among the poor, depend on poultry as their
most affordable source o f protein (88% o f total animal protein intake for Gazans is poultry-based2).According
to the WFP3, families in Gaza have reduced their total intake of animal protein out of economic necessity,
partially substituting poultry and eggs with significantly higher-priced beef, lamb, and fish. The lack of
affordable alternative protein sources could potentially have especially severe implications for the nutritional
status of children. The outbreak of Avian Influenza in Gaza, with its associated economic, social and
environmentalrisks,will thus compound an already fragile situation.

3.       Providing an effective response to the onset of Avian Influenza in these circumstances is, and will
continue to be, challenging, requiring speed, flexibility and coordination o f priority actions. The Ministryof
Agriculture (MOA) does not have the capacity on its own to carry out activities throughout the WBG to
contain a spread o f the Avian Influenza. This is mainly due to in-house limitations, such as inadequate human
capacities and financial resourcesto carry out activities of such magnitude, in addition to the ministry's limited
experience in managing large-scale donor funded projects. While the institutional capacity o f the Ministry of
Health, another key agency in an effective Avian Influenza response, i s somewhat better, the current fiscal
crisis has nevertheless taken its toll. Furthermore, a protracted fiscal crisis may affect project implementation
(Le., non-payment of salaries inrelevant ministries, etc.). To summarize, the PA i s falling well short of having
the adequatecapacities andresourcesto combat an outbreak ofthe Avian InfluenzainWBG effectively.

4.       Successfully containing the outbreak primarily depends on comprehensive culling o f poultry. In line
with WHO guidelines, already, 400,000 birds in Gaza have been culled within a three kilometer radius of
farms with positive H5N1 cases. Initially, the PA was unable to provide on its own full compensation for
owners o f the culled birds, who, on the basis of press reports, had been led to believe such compensation
would be forthcoming. Consequently, the PA suffered same loss of credibility among farmers. For example,
there were incidents confirmed by the MOA where some farmers showed resistance to the first round of
culling. This has also increased the risk that in the future farmers would be increasingly reluctant to report
suspected cases o f Avian Influenza, that they might practice unsafe culling procedures, or even sell infected

'PalestinianCentralBureauof Statistics (PCBS), Agricultural Statistics 2003/2004.
 InteragencyFrameworkfor Avian andPandemic Influenza Response, draft, April 20,2006.
3MarketMonitoring ReportNumber5: April 2006. World FoodProgram.


                                                         1

birds. Much o f the farmers' trust, however, has been restored through a recent initiative by the Russian
Government which enabled the PA to complete the compensation payments to the poultry producers who were
impacted by the outbreak. The total amount of cash payments funded by the Russian Government reached
US$1.7 million.

2. Rationalefor BankInvolvement

5.       In short, West Bank and Gaza is eligible for Bank fundingand has asked for World Bank assistance.
The Bank has a comparative advantage in providing fundingfor financing gaps insu port of the regional and
global "good" o f containing Avian Flu. According to the GPAIframework document ,West Bank and Gaza i s
                                                                                       !
eligible as a "newly-infected country with an active outbreak of avian flu among poultry but no human
infection (at the time of writing), and the existence of an appropriate program of rapid response, detection and
containment measures." Implementation and monitoring arrangements which the international and donor
agencies, including the Bank, could support are under discussion but not yet inplace.

6.       HPAIcontrol programs require a multi-disciplinary approach to integrate socio-economic issues with
technical and regulatory policies. In this context, the Bank recognizes the key role currently played by UN
technical agencies through the UNInteragency Framework. The Bank's comparative advantage is its ability to
mobilize financial resources as well as to introduce international best practices within a framework of essential
multi-disciplinary approaches. The Bank is currently working with technical counterparts and the donor
community to ensure that all activities complement the National Plan.

B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. ProjectDevelopmentObjectivesandKeyIndicators

7.       Consistent with the GPAI, the project development objective i s to achieve a minimum level of spread
o f AI to humans through better preparedness, control, and response; and achieve a minimum level o f income
loss o ftargeted farmers through compensation.

8.       Thiswould bemeasuredby:

     0   Sustained preventionrate among high-riskgroups;
     0   Reduced infection rate o f HPAI inpoultry; and
     0   A targeted percentageof farmer's income loss compensated.


2. Project Components

Component 1: AnimalHealthand Veterinarv ServicesWS%5,860,000)

9.       This component will support the preparation and implementationofHPAIpreventionand containment
activities inthe poultry sector. Inthe design of this component particular attention has been paid to consistency
and coordination between the urgent short-term project activities that will be financed under a stand-alone
US$3 million grant from the UNTF Grant, and the longer term activities to be conducted under this Project, as
follows:



 Paragraph44 (ii).


                                                         2

        Surveillanceand DiagnosticCapacity. (US$680,000) Activities include: (a) training of field staff on
        surveillance and monitoring; (b) provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) for field
        technicians directly exposed to the risk of contamination during surveillance; (c) vaccines; (d)
         equipping of a veterinary laboratory in Gaza including supply of reagents and laboratory disposables,
         as well as the upgrading of the capacity of the existing laboratory in WB;          (e) training for lab
        technicians; (f)and some activities in community awareness and social mobilization (mainly targeted
         at persons along the poultry production line). Potential activities may also include the provision of
         appropriate quarantine measures and the development of a routine collection and update of
         epidemiological data.

    0    Culling and Disposal. (US$380,000) This sub-component will support culling and preparationand
         disinfection of disposal sites and poultry farms, plus the provision of technical assistance to PA
         counterparts on culling proceduresand data collection.

    0    Compensation for IncomeLoss. (US$4,800,000) This component will provide technical support for
         the compensation committee and a proportion of the compensationfunding. All the necessary legal,
         operational and institutional arrangements for carrying out this sub-component will be developed in
         the first few monthsof implementationthroughthe AITF grant to UNagencies (UNTF Grant).


Comuonent2: HumanHealth (US$2,907,000)

10.      This component will support activities aimed at preventing the spread of the AI virus to humans.
Particular attention has been paid in the design of the component to ensure consistency and coordination
between the urgent short-term project activities to be conducted under the UNTF Grant and the long-term
activities which will be conducted under this Project. The following activities will be supported under this
Component:

         Prevention& Human Safety (US$482,000): through (a) the protection of medical and field staff and
         other highly exposed groups involved in identification/surveillanceof the disease. Adequate resources
         will be allocated for Protective clothing (PPE), Prophylaxis treatment, disinfection materials, and
         vaccination against seasonal human influenza; and (b) social mobilization and raising public
         awareness inthe community.

         StrengtheningPublic Health Surveillance Systems (US$75,000): To assess risks to public health
         and to guide preventive interventions, information is needed on the extent of influenza infection in
         animals and humans, on circulating viruses, and on other priority infectious diseases. To this end, the
         project would support strengthening the capacity of existing laboratories. This will include the
         provision of equipment necessary for specimen collection, transportation, and testing. It will also
         support upgradingof the diagnosticcapacity of existing laboratories.

         Health SystemResponse(US$2,350,000): While precisefigures are difficult to estimate, the burden
         on the health system is likely to be considerable. With the present situation, the potential of the HPAI
         virus to become transmissible among humans is of serious concern. Thus, building an effective
         national public health response would be part of an integrated national plan to bring proven
         interventionsquickly up to a nationwide scale. Activities under this sub-componentwill include:




                                                       3

             -   Vaccinations: Inthe event of an avian influenza pandemic(when vaccines become available),
                 funding will be made available for implementing a detailed logistical (procurement and
                 distribution) plan for the vaccinationoftargeted priority groups.
             -   Drug Therapy: The use of anti-viral drugs will be part of the approach to contain an avian
                 influenza pandemic and to reduce morbidity and mortality. Therefore, support will be
                 provided for the purchase of Tami flu (antiviral drug). Priority would be given to population
                 groups most exposed to immediate risk. The project would support the use of the anti-viral
                 drugs for: (a) post exposure; and (b) extendedprophylaxis;
             -   Medical services: Based on the needs assessment which will be conductedunder the UNTF
                 Grant, assistance will be provided to the health care system for preparedness to provide
                 optimal medical care and maintain essential community services. Strengthened clinical care
                 capacitycould be achievedthrough establishingspecializedunitsin selected hospitals.

ComDonent3: PublicAwareness and EnvironmentalManaPement(US$519,900)

11.      Current assessments indicatethere are at least two areas of activity where contingency funds will need
to meet evolving needs: (a) further activities on public awareness and information which may have not been
addressed under components 1 & 2; and (b) implementationof an environmentalrisk management plan.

(a) PublicAwareness and Information

12.      A coordinatedawareness and information campaign is needed to target the general public, especially
the rural population and areas of commonbackyardpoultry breeding(high-risk areas). Some public awareness
activities will be carried out under Component 2 with oversight from the MOH. The MOA also plans to print
out and distribute leaflets and brochures (under Component 1) targeting poultry producers. Additional
activities not accounted for under Components 1 and 2 will be financed under Component 3. The PIU will
retain a communicationsspecialist/agency to prepare a public awareness strategy in consultation with key UN
agencies andNGOs (UNICEF, PARC, etc). Communicationmethodscould include:

    0    Public meetings targeting women and farmers on means of protecting humans from AI. This may
         include field and houseto house visits;

         Creation of a Hot line -emergency telephones where specializedveterinarianson call will be provided
         with basic instrumentsand clothing neededfor emergency checkups; and


    0    Mid-termevaluationworkshop.

(b) Implementationof EnvironmentalManagementPlan

13.      This sub-component will implement measures as described in the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) which will be developedas part of the activities under the UNTF and ofthe Environmental Assessment
(see safeguards section). The EA/EMP will be developed following the "Interim Guidelines for Managing
Potential Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Assisted Avian Influenza Control Projects",
Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit, April 2006.

14.      These measures may include:



                                                        4

    0   implementation o f sound culling methods;
    0   safe disposal of culled birds and disposal o f farm waste (manure, eggs, feathers, contaminated
        equipment, etc);
        transport of infectious materials and dead birds;
    0   appropriate landfill site management;
    0   safe disposal of medical waste.


3. ProjectCosts and FinancingInstruments

15.     Total project costs have been estimated at U S 1 0 million financed from the Trust Fund for Gaza and
West Bank (TFGWB). An additional US$3 million from the Avian and Human Influenza Facility Trust Fund
will be implemented through the UN agencies for urgent prevention and preparedness activities to be
implemented over an initial 12-month period. Cash compensation for the farmers affected by the mandatory
culling has already paid for an aggregate of US$1.7 million through a contribution from the Russian
Government. Other co-financiers, such as USAID, the EC and Norway, are expected to contribute through the
UNInteragency Framework either financially or inkind.

16.      The WBG Country Financing Parameter (CFP) were approved on March 14, 2005 and made the
financing o f VAT and other reasonable taxes eligible under grant financing. Accordingly and, in line with the
CFP financing eligibility criteria, the WBG CFP was effectively applied from August 1, 2005 and all existing
Credit / Grant Agreements were amendedto reflect the new guidelines.Furthermore, the CFP has been applied
to all new operations ever since. The. Ministry of Finance will therefore maintain the same policies as applied
to existing projects for VAT, import duties and taxes on goods and services to the Project.

C. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

1. Overall ProjectOrganizationand Management

17.      Overall responsibility for overseeing and coordinating institutional and implementation arrangements
will be vested with the National Emergency Committee for Avian Influenza Control (NCAIC) established
since March 24, 2006. NCAIC is chaired by the Minister of Health and comprises the Deputy Minister of
Agriculture as vice-chairman and Senior Representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry o f Local
Government, PEA, and the Poultry Professional Association. The NCAIC will provide policy guidance and
coordination at the national level to oversee the implementation of the Project. The Committee will be
responsible for ensuring coordination and linkages across relevant agencies with international partners and for
guiding and monitoring project implementation at the central level. It will review and approve annual work
programs (AWPs) and ensure that recommendations from the auditors (Project and Compensation Fund) are
complied with in a timely manner (see Appendix 5).

18.      The primary implementing agencies (IAs) for the Project's physical activities will be the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). UN Agencies, local and international NGOs, and
other public agencies and departments would also carry out specific activities as required.Both ministrieswill
appoint Component Coordinators (CCs) and senior representatives, responsible for coordinating activities
within the respective ministries. The component coordinators will be the counterparts o f the Agricultural and
Health Specialists secondedto the PIU as full staff to ensurethe overall technical coherence o fthe project. The
CCs will report to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and work with staff and consultants at the PIU as
well as in the field under their respective ministries supporting the development and organization o f project
activities and the M&E o f said activities (see Appendix 5).


                                                        5

2. InstitutionalArrangementsfor Implementation

19.     The Project will provide financial and technical support for project management and coordination and
for M&E. The PIU will be entrusted, under the overall guidance of the NCAIC, with day-to-day
implementation, supervision and monitoring o f project activities. It will also be responsible for coordination of
project activities, technical assistance and training, as well as the fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial
management. Finally, the PIU will be responsible for consolidating the Annual Work Programs (AWPs),
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and annual financial statements, Procurement Planning and progress
reports as well as the coordination of the financial audit. It will also provide fiduciary and technical support to
the implementingagencies and facilitate the work of the CCs.

20.     CCs will be appointed in both MOA and MOH. They will coordinate and oversee project activities
within their respective ministry and associated institutions as well as with other relevant government
departments, NGOs and Donors so as to ensure effective inter-agency collaboration. The CCs will also be
responsible for the preparation of the AWPs as well the collection and organization of other financial
information and data on their respective project components for transmission to the PIU. This data will be used
as inputs for the quarterly and annual progress reports and FMRs. The CCs will be assisted by staff and, as
necessary, consultants, who would support planning and implementation of activities as well as M&E of
project activities in both ministries. To facilitate Project management, a Project Operational Manual (POM)
will be prepared by negotiations.

3. FinancialManagementand Procurement

21.     To mitigate fiduciary risks and to respond to the emergency nature of the project, it has been agreed
that a self-contained Project Implementation Unit for the Avian Influenza Prevention and Control Project will
be set up to oversee day-to-day implementation, supervision and monitoring of project activities. The PIUwill
also be responsible for coordination of project activities, technical assistance and training, as well as the
fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial management. For reasons of efficiency, appropriate oversight and
better integration within the PA's administrative structure, it has been agreed to anchor the PIU at the M O H
since the Minister of Health is the Chairman of the National Emergency Committee for Avian Influenza
Control (NCAIC).

22.     The PIUwill be headedby a Project Coordinator who will report directly to the NCAIC chaired by the
M O H on policy matters and all technical and operational details concerning overall Project implementation.
The PIUwill include, in addition to the regular fiduciary staff for financial management and procurement, high
level experts in agriculture, health, monitoring and evaluation (M&E),outreach, etc. The PIU will report to the
MoF in compliance with the principlesand procedures of Public FinancialManagement in WBG as definedby
the Organic BudgetLaw, financial directives, and operational decrees applicable to ministries.Inthat vein, the
MOF will retain signing and processing responsibilities over the withdrawal applications. To ensure that West
Bank i s fully covered, a branch office will be maintained at the M O H in West Bank with up to three technical
staff who will coordinate with the main PIU in the Gaza.

23.     The PIU will need to be strengthened to meet the Project's implementation requirements. It will be
necessaryto add a monitoring and evaluation expert and an outreach specialist to the current staff complement.
Finally, a tailor-made training program will be provided at an early stage for the existing finance and
procurement specialists. In the case of procurement, the services of a procurement consultant(s) or
procurement agent will be required to ensure appropriate overall administration, procurement and financial
management o f the project.



                                                          6

24.      The capacity-building of the PIU will be gradually strengthened through the envisaged grant from
AITF for immediate implementation of critical activities through the UNDP which will serve as
implementation agency with other expert UN agencies (such as the FA0 and WHO) as part of the Avian and
Human Influenza Facility Trust Fund Grant (UNTF Grant). This strengthening will include, inter alia: (a)
backstopping the PIU procurement specialist in the preparation o f the Procurement Plan and on-the-job
training; (b) assisting the PIU Financial staff in meeting the Administrator's financial reporting requirements;
and (c) finalization of the Project Operational Manual (POM).

25.      FinancialManagement.An assessment of the PIU's financial management capacity was completed
in May 2006. The assessment recommended to strengthenthe existing capacity through additional training
and technical backstopping by a qualified financial management specialist(s) which will allow the PIU to
adequately support the implementation of the proposed project and meet the IDA financial reporting
requirements in accordance with the requirements o f OP 10.02. The PIU will maintain a good financial
management system consisting of proper accounting books, a reliable and functioning internal control system
and competent and experienced accounting and financial staff.

26.      The Compensation Fund for which a Presidential Protocol was issued is operated by a national
committee chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture and comprising the General Directors o f MOA and
representatives from the Ministry of Health, the Ministryo f Planning and the Ministryof Finance. The strategy
issued by the committee was reviewed and found in need of further strengthening to improve its functioning,
the flow of funds, the management of the compensation of fund in the commercial bank, the methods of
payment (checks vs bank transfers), etc. In particular, the internal control system, proposed fund flow
arrangements and oversight arrangements need to be better articulated for greater transparency and
accountability. The flow of funds under this sub-component will only begin after the IDA is satisfied with the
existinginternal control system, fund-flow procedures and oversight arrangements. The financial management
procedures established for the Compensation Fundwill be described inthe Project Operation Manual.

27.      The PIU will be responsible for the financial management aspects of the Project. To that end, it will
prepare and issue the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on the basis of information and data provided
monthly by the component coordinators at the MOA, M O H and all other implementing agencies. The FMRs
will consist of four tables namely: (a) Sources and Application o f Funds; (b) Use of Funds by Project
Categories/Activities; (c) Physical Progress Report - output; and (iv) Procurement Monitoring report -
narratives and tables. In addition, the PIU is also expected to produce a general a reconciliation o f the Special
account (SA), a progress report on project implementation with an analysis o f variances between planned
versus actual, and physical versus financial. A sample o f FMRs is included inthe POM. The PIU will submit
the FMRsto the IDA within 45 days ofthe endofthe relevant quarter.

28.      Withdrawal of funds will be made based on disbursement methods such as reimbursement and
replenishments of the SA with Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Special commitments and direct payments
with full supporting documentation will also be allowed. The project's annual financial statements, along with
SOEs, the SA and the Compensation Fund will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
recruited on a competitive basis. The audit will be conducted in accordance internationally accepted auditing
standards. The audit report would be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the closing of the
fiscal year under audit.

29.      Procurement. An assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the PIU was conducted in May, 2006,
as part o f the appraisal mission. The assessment determined that the procurement capacity of the PIU needs to



                                                        7

be strengthened to meet the implementation requirements under the Avian Influenza Prevention and Control
Project. To this end, the PIU will be supported through the services o f Procurement Consultant(s) or a
Procurement Agent to ensure an appropriate procurement management o f the project. It is also envisaged that
the PIU will benefit from capacity-building through the grant that will be made available under the Avian
Influenza Trust Fund(AITF) to finance emergency activities.

30.      Procurement of works, goods and services required for the activities to be financed under the project
shall be undertaken in accordance with the procedures set forth inthe Bank "Guidelines - Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines). Similarly, the selection and
employment of consultant services shall be governed by the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines).

3 1.     A Procurement Plan (PP) for project implementation covering the initial 12-month period of project
implementation will be prepared before negotiations. The PP will define the list o f goods, works, and services
to be procured duringthe initial period and their value, the method o f procurement, thresholds for the Bank's
prior review and the timetable to carry out the procurement. The PP will be updated annually, or as required, to
reflect the project's actual implementationneeds and improvements in institutional capacity.

32.      The procurement procedures and Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement
method, as well as model contracts for works, goods and consultant services, will be presented in the Project
Operational Manual (POM).

4. Retroactive Financing

33.      Retroactive financing will not be available under this project since the PA does not have the required
resources to finance emergency activities. However, a grant of US$3.0 million will be made available under
the Avian Influenza Trust Fund (AITF) for emergency activities to ensure the implementation of necessary
measures for surveillance, to minimize the risk of HPAI spread to animal and human populations and to
strengthen the PIU. This would entail the financing of the most critical start-up activities by various UN
agencies, including launching the compensation payment process, acquiring testing equipment, raising
awareness, safely disposing of birds, and decontaminating infected areas. The grant would also cover project-
related operating costs and consultant services for finalizing the compensation procedures and training the
fiduciary staff of the PCU. The said resources would be managed by UNDP in consultation with the PA.
Regarding procurement, the Bank will ensure that it i s carried out in compliance with the requirements under
"IDA Consultants Guidelines" and "IDA Guidelinesfor Procurement ofGoods and Works".



5. Monitoringand Evaluation of OutcomedResults

34.      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be the responsibility of the PIU with input from each
implementing agency. In addition to progress reporting, regular PIU staff will be responsible for consolidating
the Annual Work Programs (AWPs), FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs) and Procurement Planning. M&E
activities and will be strengthened by the recruitmenthecondmentof additional staff/consultants, as necessary.

35.      Monitoring implementation progress in an emergency project of this nature will require continuous
and systematic reviews of the various activities. M&Eactivities are intendedto: (a) measure input, output, and
outcome indicators (see Appendix 2); (b) provide regular and up-to-date information on the progress towards
meeting the interim activities' benchmarks and the overall Project objective; (c) alert the implementing



                                                       8

partners to implementation problems and provide a basis on which performance could be improved; and (d)
determine whether the relevant stakeholdersare respondingas expected.

36.     The findings of M&Ewill be reflected inthe quarterly and annual progress reports (at mid-term) to be
prepared and submitted by the PIU. Accordingly, progress reporting will reflect progress under works done,
goods procured, technical assistance, performance indicators, and FMRs. Reporting will also cover issues
identified during implementation and the strategies and actions proposed to resolve such issues that affect
progress. The fourth quarterly report of the first year will be an annual mid-term report covering progress
during the past year. A Final Completion Report will be preparedand will cover the progress achieved since
effectiveness, evaluationof outcomes, andthe lessons learned.




                                                      9

6. Sustainability,Project Risks and Mitigation


                                     (I) MACROKOl
                                   I
                                    RATING       MITIGATIONMEASURE
                                                 Continuing support for inter-country collaboration
to AI control and to the threat of               through information exchanges, dialogue, and
a global influenza pandemic.                     mobilization of international commitment and
                                                 resources.
Functional collapse of the PA if                 Potential greater use o f UNagencies

                                                 Prior negotiations with banking sector and other
unwillingto assist flow of funds.                parties. Alternative use of UNagencies in
                                                 implementation.




Project implementing agencies             H      Adequate implementation arrangements inplace as
do not have sufficient authority,                a pre-condition of Bank financing; careful
leadership, and capacity to take                 monitoring of leadership and project management
leading role inAI prevention                     duringproject implementation; and technical
and control                                      assistance and training. Up-front capacity-building
                                                 through AITF grant to UNagencies.
Essential equipment and                   M      Coordination with GOI.
suppliesunavailable due to
closures.
Inadequate or lack of multi-              M      Highlevel nationalcommitteeto be strengthened.
sectoral participation
Financial resources not                   H      Rapid disbursement procedures and simplified
accessible in a timely manner,                   public sector procurement in accordance with OP
weak procurement management.                     for emergency operations. AITF grant to UNwill
                                                 finance preparation of project operational manual.
Lack o f timely and predictable           S      Project activities are designed and implemented
access to expert advice and                      with leadingmultilateral agencies such as FA0 and
technical support.                               WHO; regional bodies such as the European
                                                 Union; and bilateral and other donor organizations.
Low priority given to public              S      Communication strategy and component, including
accountability and transparency                  publication of audit results and achievements;
inprogrammanagement.                             transparency in decision and resource allocation.
Inadequate capacity for planned           H      Technical assistanceand partnership between local
surveillance, surveys and                        organizations and internationalinstitutions will be
monitoring and evaluation.                       provided. M&Ewill include information on
                                                 instruments for data collection, agencies
                                                 remonsible and a detailed timetable
Overall RiskRating:                       H

7. Grant Conditions and Effectiveness

37.      The key conditions needed to minimize Project risks have been addressed by the Palestinian
National Authority who now meets the eligibility requirements for participating in the GPAI (Country
Eligibility Criteria under the GPAI). Specific provisions have been developed to meet the standard
requirements covering organization and staffing, as well management, procurement and financial
management arrangements.

    0    Conditionsof Effectiveness: (a) the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association,
         has been approved by the Recipient; (b) the annual work program for the first year o f the Project,
         satisfactory to the Association,     has been approved by the recipient; and (c) the Subsidiary
         Agreement has been executed on behalf o f the Recipient and the PalestinianAuthority.
    0    Withdrawal Conditions. (i)For expenditures under Compensation Fund; (a) the Compensation
         Fund has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and (b) the Compensation
         Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the Recipient; and (ii)for
         expenditures under Goods, Works and Consultants' services,              the EMP, satisfactory to the
         Association, has beenadopted by the Recipient.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.       Economicand FinancialAnalyses

38,      Production of broiler and layer sectors in Gaza in 2003/4 was valued at US$42.S5million. The Gazan
poultry sector's value-added, after input deductions, is estimated at around US$22 million6. Without the
project, it i s expected that avian influenza would force the Gazan poultry sector to remain inactive in the long
term and that this income stream would be lost. With the project, the sector i s expected to return to its current
level o f value-added within two or three years. A project investment o f US$10 million i s economically
justified inorder to restore an income stream of US$22 millionper year after two to three years.

39.      Assuming that 5% of the Gazan population would be exposed to infected poultry during an
uncontrolled poultry epidemic, it is estimated that around 2,000 human hospitalizations and 300 human deaths
would ensue'. The project would avert these health impacts.

40.      Poultry rearing plays a key role in household livelihoods and female incomes in Gaza, given that
Israeli restrictions and social customs limit access to formal employment. According to Esim and Kuttab
(2002)*, approximately one-half o f Palestinian women overall have had long-term involvement in poultry-
rearing.

2.       Environmentaland Social Issuesand Safeguard Policies

41.      The project has been classified as a category B Project since it involves moderate environmental
impacts which can be managed during project implementation. The project triggers OP 4.01 on Environment


 PalestinianCentralBureauof Statistics (2005) Agricultural Statistics 2003/2004.
 After deductingthe cost ofpurchasedchicks andassumingthat 50% ofthe animal feed andveterinary medicine
'consumedinWHOGaza is usedfor poultry.
 Applying         estimatedparameters for bird-to-humaninfection, hospitalizationandmortality.
 Esim S. andKuttabE. (2002) Women'sinformal employment in Palestine: securing a livelihoodagainst all odds.


                                                        11

Assessment and OP 4.09 on Pest Management. The safeguard issues which pertain to the Project are: (a)
selection and implementation of culling methods; (b) selection and implementation of disposal methods for
culled poultry and associated waste; (c) safe disposal o f medical waste; and (d) mitigating the negative
economic impacts of disease-inducted death and/or mandated culling o f poultry on small-scale and backyard
poultry producers.

42.      OP 4.09 on Pest Management: The procurement of any pesticide will be contingent on an assessment
o f the nature and degree of associated risks, taking into account the proposed use and intended users. The
Project will require that any pesticide it finances be manufactured, packaged, labeled, handled, stored,
disposed of, and applied accordingto standards acceptable to the Bank. The Bank does not finance formulated
products that fall in WHO classes IA and IB, or formulations o f products in Class 11, if (a) the country lacks
restrictions on their distribution and use; or (b) they are likely to be used by, or be accessible to, lay personnel,
farmers, or others without training, equipment, and facilities to handle, store, and apply these products
properly.

43.      The project will not finance activities which would trigger OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, e.g.,
selected disposal sites, landfills and burial pits will be on public land rather than private sites to avoid land
expropriation.

44.      The project will be processed under OP8.50 and the first activity o f this project will be the
development of an EMP, which will be disclosed inthe country and in the Bank's InfoShop.

45.      The proposed investments in laboratory facilities, equipment and staff training will improve the
effectiveness and safety of avian influenza and testing procedures by meeting international standards by the
World Organization for Animal Health (OIE). Whatever medical waste is generated in health care facilities
and waste from the animal health component will be managed usingexisting country guidelines. The country
project will also support updating these guidelines, training health care workers to manage medicinal waste
following these guidelines and the purchase of equipment for the proper handling and disposal of medical
waste in selected facilities. This provision would be included inthe project operationalmanual (or equivalent).

46.      Overall, the Project would assist government entities to develop a strategy for managing future
emerging and re-emerging disease outbreaks. As such, the project will improve environmental and social
safeguards in the following areas: (a) mainstreaming environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures
for the culling and disposal of animals and waste during an outbreak, in particular by adopting OIE standards
aligned with WHO procedures and recommendations, and improving bio-medical-waste management systems
in health facilities and laboratories; (b) financing safe culling and disposal options; and (c) development of
compensation policies for poultry farmers affected by future outbreaks.




                                                          12

SafeguardPolicies T              r           i         g             l    Yes       -    N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                   X
NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             X
Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                      X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                            X
IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20)                                                              X
Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                     X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                               X
Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                          X
Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP/BP7.60)                                                     X

47.     Since the project supports investments for the culling and disposal of carcasses and laboratory waste,
an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared. The EMP will be developed following the
"Interim Guidelines for Managing Potential Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Assisted
Avian Influenza Control Projects", Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit, April 2006. The EMP will cover
the selection o f appropriate culling methods, clean-up of animal waste from infected and culled poultry, and
selection and management of disposal facilities. The scope o f this EMP will be specified during the initial
period o f Project implementation.

48.     The disclosure of the EMP in the country and InfoShop will be a condition of disbursement for the
implementation o f culling and disposal activities. On the conditions of disbursement for the compensation
component, any conditions will apply for future culling, not past culling, with the conditionality applying only
to the completion and operation of the EMP.

SocialAspects

49.     The social impacts of the project, both positive and negative, will require close monitoring. While no
social safeguard policies are likely to be triggered, sensitivity to the political and security context (consistent
with 0.P 2.30: Development Cooperation and Conflict) would be prudent. In line with the MNA Regional
Social Development Strategy, the project design will include consultations with affected populations in
planning and decision-making on the AI response, including these beneficiaries' accountability to achieve
results. In particular, the management of the compensation activity (under the animal health component) will
requireattention to social impacts. The inclusionof a public awareness and information component will allow
corrective and mitigation measuresagainst social risks.

50.     Inregional terms, the potential collaborationwith Israel and other neighbors offers a rare opportunity
to buildpeaceful cooperation and linkswhich mighthave broader payoffs.




                                                       13

                WEST BANK and GAZA: AvianInfluenzaPreventionand ControlProject
                             Appendix 1: Internationaland CountryBackground




1. Overall CountryImpactAssessment

51.      As of early April, sporadic outbreaks of avian flu in both Gaza and Israel have put authorities and
civilians on alert, albeit with different levels of response and readiness.According to FAO/WHOreports, there
have been confirmed cases from eight locations in Gaza, with several other suspected cases under
investigation. There were also eight confirmed cases from Israel, all inareas close to Gaza or the West Bank,
and one case in an Israeli settlement located within the West Bank. By the end o f April 2006, preventive
culling of a target of 400,000 chickens in 45 farms was carried out by the M O A in Gaza (approximately 20%
o f Gaza poultryg). Although there remains some ambiguity regarding the culling process actually followed",
the PA's stated policy was to comply with international practice of cullingwithin a three kmzone o f outbreaks
(OIE and FA0 Guidelines).

52.      Further assessment has been difficult due to lack of access, and conflicting information emanating
from different international and ministerial sources. However, the extent of the risk is clear. According to the
MOA, there are currently 2,252 poultry keepers (commercial farms) in the West Bank with an annual
population of 25 million broilers and 1,100 commercial poultry farms in Gaza with an annual population of
around 10 million broilers, plus widespread domestic household rearing o f birds (chickens, pigeons, geese,
etc., in backyards and on rooftops). (See documents in the project file for poultry statistics from the MOA).
Given Gaza's small geographic size and the widespread dispersion of poultry, it would not take many
outbreaks for the three km culling zones to cover the entire area and bird population. Moreover, although
suspected human cases of avian flu have thus far tested negative, due to Gaza's high population density
(around 4,000 per sq km, among the world's highest), the potential risk of human contagion is heightened
because of the close proximity of large populations to any infected poultry. Indeed, the possible impact of
further significant outbreak in Gaza, as well as the proximity of already confirmed outbreaks to Israel, Egypt
and Jordan puts the whole region at risk if it is not handled quickly and properly.


2. Country Strategyinthe Contextof the GPAI

53.      A presidential decree was issued early 2006 establishing the Avian Influenza National High
Contingency Committee headed by the Minister of Health and includingmembers from different ministries
and relevant organizations (MOH, MOA, MOF, MOEHE, MOSA, Environment Quality Authority (EQA), the
Union of Poultry Farmers, and NGOs). This committee was established in order to reinforce the Palestinian
National Plan for Pandemic Influenza that was formulated in late 2005 and headed by the MOH. The Plan,
which remains in draft form, sets up the responsibilities, actions and mechanism o f work. The plan i s based
around a set o f common objectives, namely:


 InteragencyFrameworkfor Avian andPandemic InfluenzaResponse, draft, April 20,2006
loWest Bank and Gaza Avian InfluenzaRapidAssessment Report, Dr.FawziKeshrid-Animal Healthand Production
Consultant -the World Bank.


                                                          14

        Securing the preparednessand containment activities.
    0   Meetingthe WHO requirementsinsecuring the protective equipment, vaccines and medications.
         Strengthening the coordination and communication with the international community and mainly the
        neighboring countries.
         Securing funds for implementing the neededactivities.
        Improvingthe capacity of the central public health laboratories (CPHL).
        Ensuring all governmental departments, health care facilities have developed and exercised the
        preparednessand response plans.
         Providing guidance to the private sector and public on preparednessand response, in conjunction with
        the government and local authorities.

54.      The M O A has also prepared the National Avian Influenza Control and Eradication, with the main
objective of controlling the disease through an active, programmed surveillance system by developing the
capacity for early detection and containment of the virus, promoting education and awareness among farmers,
and facilitating coordination and information exchange among the MOH and the regional and international
organizations. This National Plan has been divided into chronological phases, with Phase 1laying out the basis
for implementing active surveillance measures, and Phase 2 the implementation o f effective containment
measures in the case of confirmed outbreak.

55.      In an attempt to translate the National Plan described above, the MOA formed the Avian Influenza
Control and Eradication Plan Technical Committee headed by the Veterinary Services and Animal Health
Department. The mandate of this Committee is to supervise and evaluate the implementations of field
activities related to the control and eradication elements o f the National Plan, evaluate the epidemiological
status of Avian Influenza in WBG, and to determine the requirements for the surveillance and control.

56.      Due to the inability of the PA ministries to provide the requisite funds necessary to implement the
above plans, none o f the plans have been actually executed. Instead PA ministries have been limited in their
response to only the most critical surveillance and awareness activities, with little, if any, funds available to
contain any possible occurrence o f a new outbreak.

3. Country Responseto the A I Emergency

3.1 Overall Coordination

57.      Clearly, the PA is seriously constrained in its ability to address AI, largely due to international
response to the transition in government.        Despite this handicap, coordination between the Palestinian
ministries dealing primarily with the virus (MOH and MOA) as well as with relevant regional and
international organizations has been remarkably efficient, with the M O H taking the lead. The AI National
Committee (described above) coordinates development and communication of policies, assessment reports,
protocols and guidelines, as well as follow-up measures to fulfill the national plan. Although brochures and
telephone hotlines have been set up for both human and animal health inquiries, a stronger public awareness
and communications campaign i s neverthelessrequired(see below).

58.      This committee's role has beenreinforced by (i)a task force chaired by FA0with representation from
the WB, UNICEF, WHO, UNRWA, EC, M O A & M O H and (ii)regional cooperation whereby Israelis,
Palestinians and Jordanians are in close communication, sharing information and experience, in particular
through an initiative under the Middle East Consortium on Infectious Disease Surveillance (MECIDS)".

11This is an NGO initiative was calledfor by Search for CommonGroundOrganization, basedinJerusalem.


                                                          15

59.     As partofthe internationalresponse, the UN,ledbyUNDP and inpartnershipwith other UNagencies
including FAO, WHO, and UNICEF, has prepared an InteragencyFrameworkfor the Avian Influenza and
Preparedness Responsein order to coordinate the individualefforts of each specialized agency in a systematic
collective approach for assistingthe PA in its immediate and longer term needsto bothmitigatethe epidemic
andto reducethe threat of a humanpandemic. Fivespecific objectivesare laid out:

            Containment: Containing current outbreaks and preventing further outbreaks by surveillance,
            early detection and containment at source through urgent, intense and sustained interventions
            designedto preventthe virus from spreadingor beingtransmittedto humans;
            Mitigation: Mitigatingthe negative impact o f Avian Influenzaon the general public's nutritional
            status and food security, by providing humanitarian assistance in the form of food aid and
            livelihoodrecovery;
            CapacityDevelopment: Supportingthe veterinary and human health surveillanceand diagnostic
            services;
            Revitalization:Developinga long-term strategy to help the poultry industry recover from the
            damage; and
            Preparedness: Improvingnationalpandemic preparedness for containingand responding to any
            humanpandemicthat might emerge.

60.     Portions of the Bank's resources will be channeled through the UN Interagency Frameworkfor the
implementation of those urgent activities in which the UN system has a comparative advantage in terms of
adequatecapacityandmobility to carry out immediatetasks.

4.2 Animal Health

61.     Generally,the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has been less well-preparedbut has reacted to specific
outbreaks-preparednessfundinggoes largelyto MOH, while MOA is increasinglyconstrained by inadequate
funding. As described earlier, the initial culling efforts carriedout by the MOA staff in Gaza (400,000 birds)
and in the West Bank (approximately5,500 birds belongingto 47 poultry breeders) have been carriedout in
compliance with the 3 km zoning recommendations. Initially, the MOA had envisaged carrying out a 100%
slaughter inthe West Bank (allowingbirdsto be frozen andusedfor food), butthis hasnot beenapplieddue to
limitedresourcesthat MOA prefersto conserve for possible cullingrequirementsthat mightemergeinthe near
future. Nevertheless, 100%slaughtering inthe West Bankremains an option should conditionsallow. As part
of its farmer-awareness and education campaign, MOH has already prepared and distributed approximately
20,000 brochures and 5,000 posters among poultry farmers in the West Bank. In addition, some interactive
awareness sessions at farms visited duringthe sampling and culling process have been carriedout with farm
owners and employees. The PA has expressed itsconcernto partners and donors about the needfor immediate
funding for compensation in order to encourage further culling; additional funding is also required for
necessary operational and recurrent expenditure in the areas of surveillance, culling and disposal, and to
address any new cycle of infections.

62.     MOA has also put in place a strategy for farmer in order to encourage farmers to report suspected
cases, to encourage farmers to perform the culling process, and to compensate farmers on their capital loss.
The strategy set out as a target group all farmers whose birds were culled duringthe culling periodbased on
the records ofthe MOA andthe technicalteams inthe field. MOA considersfarmer compensationto be one of
its mainpriorities, and lists of farmers and compensationamountshavebeenprepared. As ofyet there are not
sufficient funds to carry out the compensation (estimated at around US$2 million for 100% culling); it is
fearedthat ifthe PA fails to compensatefarmers, therelationshipbetweenfarmers andMOA coulddeteriorate,



                                                        16

possibly leading to unsafe practices by farmers such as informal culling and disposal o f birds should another
outbreak hit the area.

63.     It should be noted that the MOA Plan has several shortfalls: it does not clearly address a strategic
outlook for options and costs of restoring public confidence, for vaccination to protect from the threat o f new
Avian Influenza infections, or for the safe restocking of poultry population.

4.3 International Supportto the Avian InfluenzaEmergency

67.      Several international organizations have mobilized assessments of the situation and identified areas in
need of support. A Rapid Expert Mission was carried out by WHO from March 30 - April 6, 2006, and
addressedmainly human health issues. On the animal health side, the FA0 conducted a mission from April 17
-29,2006,tomakearapidassessmentforcombatingAvianInfluenza.TheWorldBankcarriedoutitsRapid
Assessment Mission from March 28 - April 15, 2006, during which the mission conducted intensive
consultations with several UN agencies (including WHO, FAO, UNRWA and UNDP) in order to consolidate
efforts to produce the UN Interagency Framework for Avian Influenza and Pandemic Response" currently
being coordinated by UNDP. However, despite all these collective efforts, only modest funds have been
mobilized, due inpart to donor hesitancy about aid levels and distribution mechanisms in the context of recent
political developments:

68.      Some donor commitments have materialized recently. The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) financed
the purchase of two PCR machines for the MOA veterinary labs; a contribution from the Russian Government
financed a total of US$1.7 million in cash payments to all the farmers who lost their poultry stock through the
mandatory culling that was implemented. In addition, duringthe first week of June 2006, the PA was able to
make some additional compensation. F A 0 and WHO have also been usingtheir own funds to assist the PA in
carrying out capacity building activities, training for staff, and provision o f specialized technical advice. FA0
has also provided some urgently needed supplies for surveillance activities, such as PPE. The UNInteragency
Framework for Avian and Pandemic Response contains a preliminary budget o f around US$30 million to
cover containment and compensation, public health, nutrition and food security needs, institutional and
technical capacity strengthening, and agricultural recovery. The Bank's intervention within the Framework
will consist o f US$10 million from the TFGWB and an additional US$3 million under the Avian and Human
InfluenzaFacility Trust Fund, to be implementeddirectly through the UNsystemfor immediate needs.

4.4 LessonsLearned

69.      This is the first GPAI project within the framework of a fragile or conflict-affected country. Lessons
from other AI projects should therefore be adapted to the circumstances of WBG, where experience in
implementingprevious emergency projects also provides valuable guidance, notably:
-   Any project of this type must be kept simple in terms of objectives, number and complexity of
    components, and implementation arrangements - particularly with respect to simplified financial and
    procurement arrangements. Simplified implementation arrangements are a key to achieving the overall
    objective within the limitations and timeframe imposed by an emergency context.




l2Collectiveeffort ofUNagencies(WHO, FAO, UNICEF, WFP, UNDPandUNRWA) to develop an integrated
conceptualframeworkthat identifiesthe roles/ways of coordinationto meet the objectives through ajoint program.



                                                        17

-   Proper coordination with international organizations and national and non-government institutions inorder
   to ensure a comprehensive, collective approach and to minimize both duplication o f efforts and gaps in
    coverage i s of critical importance.
-   For the purpose of quick implementatioddisbursement, project implementation through a national
    counterpart that has already acquired adequate capacity and knowledge in implementing Bank-financed
    projects is the most efficient approach. Such an arrangement might be done through a retained national
    counterpart or by an existing Project ImplementationUnit (PIU).
-   Given the need for an immediate response and in recognition of the limited capacity o f the PA to respond
    immediately and effectively to the Avian Influenza threat, drawing on international technical assistance
    and implementation of activities -particularly those related to critical surveillance and startup activities -
    is an appropriate approach. I n the context of West BanWGaza (weakened PA institutions and an area prone
    to conflict) the Rapid Assessment team concluded that immediate implementation o f critical activities
    through the UNsystem with Government approval may be the only effective solutioni3.




 13Note on Approaches to Avian Influenzain Fragile States, datedApril 24,2006 andrevisedMay 7,2006. Operations
 Policy and Countryservices, The World Bank.


                                                          18

              WEST BANKandGAZA: Avian Influenza PreventionandControlProject


                             Appendix 2: ResultsFramework and Monitoring




70.     The following is an indicative results framework to be reviewed and refined in the preparation
of the project operationsmanualwhere baselinesfor the results indicatorswould be identified.

71.     Project DevelopmentObjective: To achieve a minimumlevelof spreadofAI to humansthrough
better preparedness,control, andresponse; andachieve a minimumlevelof income loss oftargetedfarmers
throughcompensation.


72.     As measuredby:

    0   Sustainedpreventionrate of 100% amonghighrisk groups
    e   ReducedInfectionrate of poultry
    0   A percentageof farmers' income loss compensated(to be determined)




                                                   19



N
N


d-
N


             I    VI
                  0
                  e)
                 '2
                  e)
                 m

        0
        0
        8
        3
        3




       -0
       8     I   -5




-*.
aW
 m
U
 0.
 e
.I
 E
U


aB
2v1

.eu
.I



U
 Q
'f?
.I

B
4-
 Q


0
0
2
10


                            Chart: Compensation Fund Core Functioning

      SOURCESOF FUNDS:                                            HIGHCOMMITTEE
      1- Russian
      2- WorldBank
      3-  Local (Palestinianauthorities):
              - Taxes onpoultry industry
              -- Palestinianfunds
                 Charges associatedto poultry      0
                                                  t 3
                                 heldby Israel
      4- Other?                                   %




                                                                               --- Categories;
                                                                               Shouldincludeinfo on:
                                                                                  Number animalculled;

                                                                                   Track of animal
                                                                               movement
                                                                               - Surveillance
(17                                                                            - Etc.


 CULLING TEAM
 3 to 4 persons including:
 --- Member o
    Veterinarianfrom government                           CALCULATION OF AMOUNTS
     Technicians(2)                                       Inthe responsibledepartmentofthe CF

              f the sub-committee                         should calculate amounts for each owner
                                                          throughthe culling forms information




 REGISTRATION/CULLING                                     DISBURSEMENTTHROUGH
 FORMS                                                                 industrialproducers
 - The forms need3 carbon                                 -- Chequesto
                                                             Cashfor smallholders(?)
 sheets. These would be for:
 1)the owner ofpoultry culled,
 2) governor,
 3) amemberofthe culling team
 - Eachofthe     forms should
 includesignaturesofthe three                             DISBURSEMENTBY
 persons above mentioned                                  - Cullingteam (?)
                                                          -- LocalNGOs
                                                             Sub-committee(?)
                                                                         (?)
                                                          The owner shouldpresentthe
                                                          registratiodculling form carbonsheet.



                                              FARMERS
                                 INDUSTRIALPRODUCERSAND
                                           SMALLHOLDERS

                                                     31)

Component2: HumanHealth (US$2.9 million)

Detailedactivities and costingtable:

          Globa Program for Aviai [nfluenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (G ,I)
Component I1         Activities      Detailed activities/description                                      Budget
Prevention and
Human Safety
                 Community           Community awarenessand social mobilization activities.
                 awarenessand        Campaignthat emphasis on personalhygiene, promotion through
                 social              handwashing, and proper cocking and distribution and use of
                 mobilization        masks.                                                               72,000
                 Procurementof       Procurementof PPE for highly exposedhealth staff categories,
                 PPEfor highly       PPE disposables:
                 exposedhealth       (10,000)
                 staff categories
                 Procurement of      Procurementof PPE for MoH, UNRWA and specific NGOs' health
                 PPE for health      centers and at central level in West Bank and Gaza (intotal around
                 centers             500 Centers                                                          60.000
                 Procurementof       InfluenzaVaccine
                 Seasonal            For 20, 000 persons. This amount should cover health
                 Influenza for       professionals,chronic disease patients, elderly, and persons with
                 Highrisk            close contact. Vaccines should be administeredbetweenSeptember
                 exposedgroups       and October inyear 2007.                                             100,000
                                     Tami flu Stockpile should cover five seasons. The total amount of
                                     treatments (doses) is 2500 per season. Since we are talking about
                 Prophylaxis         five seasons, the total amount 12500 doses (each dose consist of 10
                 treatment           capsules). This amount will only cover the prophylactic andpost
                                     exposure needs that enable the MOHto cope with upcoming waves
                                     of AI.                                                               250,000
Surveillance
Capacity
Building
                 Procuremento f      Procurementof equipment and reagents for lab. That necessaryto
                 equipment and       enable the MOH to conduct the tests, collect andtransportthe
                 reagents for lab    samples. This shouldcover the period Feb2007- Aug. 2008. Two
                 Strengthenthe       deliveries are expectedper year, depends on the demand and the
                 laboratory          usage. (See Annex 1for details).
                 diagnostic
                 capacity                                                                                 75,000
Health system
response
                                     Inthe five designatedreferral MOHhospitalsthe MOHwill
                 Establish/          establishspecializedisolation unit for receiving patientswith A I
                 rehabilitation and  infection andrelatedpneumoniadiseases.These hospitalswill be
                 equipment o f       enabledwith the necessaryequipments. (See annex 2)
                 specialized
                 isolation units in
                 the designated
                 referral hospitals,
                 developmentof
                 staffing strategy
                                                                                                         2,350,000
                 Vaccination         Provision of Avian Influenza vaccination among- high-risk workers
                                     (when vaccine becomes available).                                     TBD



                                                      31

Drugtherapy:
Stockpile of
Tami-flufor
upcomingwaves
of pandemicAI.          TBD
                        2,907,000




                  32

            WEST BANK and GAZA: Avian Influenza Preventionand Control Project


                          Appendix 4: Project Costs and Financing


        Component                       Subcomponent            Cost inUS$  Grand Total
                                                                                US$
                                                                                           ~




Animal Health                A. Surveillance and Diagnostic      680,000




                                                                              2,907,000
Unallocatedj                IPublic Awareness, Environmental   I
Contingencies                Risk,etc)                                        519,900
Operational Cost (at 6%)                                                      713,100

TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                         I 10,000,000

                                                    Local    Foreign
ProjectCost By Componentand/or Activity               us                     Total
                                                   $million  $million
                                                                us         US %million




                                                33

I-                        rcl
                          0




  I
    I
    I

    I


    I




    I              I


    I




                   I


    I


    I




                   I




         -B
           -
    I              I

                   I
    I              I
                   I
                   I
    I              I
                   I

    I              I
                   I
                   I
                   I
                   I
                   I
    I              I
                   I

    I              I
                   ;-----
                   I

                        B
                   I
    I              I
    I              I
    I              I
    I              I
    I              I
    I         I    I
    I              I
    I              I
           i
    I         I         B
    I              I
    I
  -                I
    I              I
    I              I
                   I
    I              I
                   I
                   I
                   I
                   I
                   I
                   I
                   I
    I              I

                                          Project Coordination



                                                         Planned               Actual
PCN review
Initial PID to PIC
InitialISDS to PIC
Appraisal                                              June 15,2006         July 15, 2006
Negotiations                                           July 15,2006       August gth,2006
BoardRVP approval                                  September 4*, 2006     September 7'h 2006
Planned date of effectiveness                      September 30th,2006     January 2,2007
Planned date o f mid-termreview                     October 30th,2007
Planned closing date                                 October 30th2008     January 31,2009

Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project:

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                 Title                    Unit
HusamAbu Dagga                            Sr. Operations Officer            M N S R E
Colin S. Scott                                Lead Specialist               M N S R E
Jean-Philippe Tre                        Regional AI Coordinator            MNSRE
Siaka Bakayoko                            Sr. Financial Specialist          MNAFM
AhmedMerzouk                            Sr. Procurement Specialist          MNAPR
Imad Subhi Dweik                             Health Specialist              MNSHD
Saida Ismaeel Hamad                       Communication Officer             MNC04
Stefanie Brackmann                       Natural Resources Spec.            M N S R E
Suha Rabah                                  ProgramAssistant                MNC04
Faouzi Kichred                                    Consultant
Lina Abdallah                                     Consultant                MNC04
Ali Awais                                  Counsel (consultant)             LEGMS

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$50,000
     2. Trust funds:
     3.  Total:

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$20,000
     2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$lOO,OOO




                                                      35

             WEST BANK and GAZA: Avian InfluenzaPreventionand ControlProject


                Appendix 6: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements



FINANCIALMANAGEMENTARRANGEMENTS

73.      The PIU will be responsible for coordination on behalf of MOH and MOA and for financial
management under the Project. It will be responsible for ensuring that the Project establishes and
maintains: (i)adequate accounting systems and procedures; (ii)flow-of-funds mechanisms facilitating
timely disbursement of funds and timely payments for goods, works and services; (iii)regular reporting
on the use of funds; and (iv) appropriate arrangementsfor regularfinancialaudits. These responsibilities
will be described in detail in a manual of financial procedures and summarized in the Financing
Agreement.

74.      Staffing. The existingFMS staffing inthe PIU consistingof a Coordinator,a financial officer, a
procurement specialist and a disbursement officer would be adequate to meet the implementation
requirements of the project at the initial phase (first six months), but additional staff will be needed to
strengthen the existing capacity and to allow for periodic visits to the producers and to review the
implementationof the Compensation Fund. The additionalstaff will report to the financial officer and
together with the disbursement officer, they will be responsible for disbursement functions as well as
project accounting -- maintaining books of accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions and preparing
accounting reports and financialstatements, as well as monitoringfinancial flows to projectbeneficiaries.
The financial officer will have primary responsibilityfor the quarterly financial reports (FMRs) and will
preparethe annualfinancialstatements for audit.

75.      Financial Reporting. For project monitoringpurposes, quarterly financial monitoring reports
will be required. The PIU will be responsible for designing appropriate financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) to include: (a) Project Sources and Uses of Funds, (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity, (c)
Special AccountLocal Bank Account Statements, (d) Physical progress report - - output, and (e)
Procurement monitoringreport-narratives and tables. These financial reports will be submitted to IDA
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterlyFMR will be submitted after the end of the
first full quarter following the initial disbursement. Formats of the annual financial statements and the
FMRswill be incorporatedinthe Project OperatinalManual(POM).

76.      DisbursementArrangements. The Recipientwill establish a Special Account in a commercial
bank, acceptableto IDA. Disbursementsof the IDA Grant proceedswill be made basedon disbursement
methods such as reimbursements, advance, direct payments and Special Commitments. Supporting
documentation will include Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and/or records (copies of records of
payment, e.g., invoices, receipts). For certain payments, above the Minimum Application Size as
specified in the Disbursement Letter, the PIU will submit withdrawal applications to the Bank for
paymentsto suppliers andconsultants directlyfromthe Grant / CreditAccount.

77.      Quick Disbursable Funds. The Recipient would obtain quick disbursing funds since we are
already in an emergency situation.These funds would be disbursedfrom the Avian InfluenzaTrust Fund
(AITF) and managed by the UNDP toward the financing of critical activities which have already been
identifiedinan AITF technical annex preparedby the UNagencies and submittedto the IDA.The UNDP



                                                     36

will be the coordinatorand establish a PIU to that end. To preserve the integrity of the project however,
UNDPwill liaise with the projectPIUfor overall implementationandfiduciary aspects.

78.     Internal Controls. It is expectedthat both the PIU and the Compensation Fund sub-component
would maintain adequate internal control systems. Although the Compensation fund does not have
previous experience in managing resources of this size, appropriate measures have been considered to
providing the needed mechanisms for an efficient management of the fund. The PIU on the other hand,
could be strengthened so that it maintain an effective internal control system to ensure that project
expenditures are properly authorized, supporting documents are maintained; accounts are reconciled
periodically; project assets, includingcash, are safeguarded, and cash compensation grants are properly
accounted for. Irrespectiveof the accounting basis followed, detailed assethnventories register will be
maintained as part of the project internal control procedures. The PIU will implement appropriate
controls over inventories of drugs, vaccines, medical equipment, and other sensitive and/or expensive
assets will beespeciallyimportantfor the project.

79.     Compensation Fund. The Government has established a national Compensation Fund from
which the producers of birdsculledwill be compensated. The requiredimplementationarrangements still
need to be developed and put in place, and the Project will provide support to that end. The necessary
legal, institutionaland operational details will be developed and agreed upon startingfrom appraisal and
continue duringthe first monthsof project implementationandwill be includedinthe OperationalPlan.

80.     As a condition of disbursement of funds under the Compensation Fundsub-component, the PIU
will implementappropriate internalcontrol procedures and flow-of-fundsarrangements acceptableto the
Bank and documented inthe operational/financialmanual. The Projectwill provide US$ 5.6 million to
finance and operate this Fund. US$ 0.8 million will be disbursed through the AITF so as to launchthe
compensationprocessandkeepthe producersinvolved.The remaining$4.8 million will be disbursed into
a speciallyestablishedaccount, so as to providesufficient resources for immediateandfuture needs.

81.     Internal Control Arrangements for the Compensation Fund. The procedures for recording
poultry culledunder government orders and for establishingand recordingpoultry producer's claims for
compensation payments will be established and agreed upon. A number of minimum internal control
procedures and risk mitigation measures will be implemented with respect to recording and verifying
poultryculling andclaims for compensationpayment beforeany flow of funds is initiated.

    0    The financial and operational manuals will detail the mechanisms for identifyingthose eligible
         for compensation payments, ensuringthat there will be no multiple claims. It is expectedthat a
         CompensationFunddatabasewill be maintainedby the Project to facilitate recordkeeping, claim
         verification, paymentfacilitation, monitoringandauditing.
    0    The culling and the preparation and processing of culling records and compensation claims will
         be done inaccordancewith the agreeduponproceduresofthe compensationfund.
    0    All forms to be usedto recordpoultry culling and compensation claims will be providedby the
         Project. They will be pre-numberedandrecordedinthe databaseofthe CompensationFund. All
         unused forms, as well as any invalid or incorrectly completed forms, must be returnedto the
         CompensationFundwhenthe cullingrecordsare submitted.
    0    Compensationpaymentto poultryproducerswill be either by checks or by banktransfers. There
         will beno vouchers. Paymentwill bemadewithin a few weeks fromthe date of culling.

82.      The backyard poultry producers will, at the time of culling, receive a pre-numbered Culling
Certificate in multiple copies noting the date and the type and number of birds culled. Each certificate
will be signed by Community Culling Technical Committee (CCTC) and countersigned by the poultry



                                                     37

producer. Certificates not signed by all members of the CCTC and the poultry producer would be
considered invalid. Payment will be made in personand by checks inthe beneficiaryname at the village
level.To receive payment, each poultryproducerwill berequiredto presenthidher culling certificate; the
date and amount of payment will be recorded on the certificate and countersigned by the poultry
producer.

83.     For medium- and large-scalepoultryproducers with morethan 3,000 birds (medium = 3,000 -
10,000 and large >10,000), the producer or manager will, at the time of culling, receive an Enterprise
Poultry Culling Record, signed by the Veterinary services representative. The producedmanager
countersigns. This document is the official record that establishes the poultry producers' right to
compensation. Actual compensation payments will be based on the approved number of birds culled as
confirmed by the compensation committed. The compensation payments will be made by transfers
through the banking system. The Compensation Fund will transfer the funds to the commercial banks.
The latter will instruct its branchesinthe appropriate locations to credit the account(s) ofthe producers.

84.     Flow-of-Funds Arrangementsfor the Compensation Fund. Flow-of-funds arrangements for
making compensation payments are designed to minimize the risk of errors or fraud and ensure funds
reach the intended beneficiaries in a transparent manner. Once authorized by the PIU, compensation
payments will be effected by the CompensationFundin one of two ways: (i)in person and by checks in
the beneficiaryname in the village or (ii) transfers throughthe local bankingsystem or any other reliable
structure operatingin WB&G..

85.     Reviews andAuditsfor the CompensationFund. The PIUwill carryout, or will arrangeto have
carriedout, additionalchecksto ensurethat the eligiblepoultryproducers, and only they, are paidand are
paid in full. This will include,but notbe limitedto, periodicoperational reviews, under TORSacceptable
to IDA, to confirm the validity and legitimacyof the compensation payments made. The reviewers will
be requiredto verify compensation claims and payments made inrandomly selected samples of villages;
this verification will include: checking against the database maintained by the Compensation Fund,
collectingand verifying informationavailableand obtained at the village level, checkingwith individual
poultry producers, checking forms and reports, etc.       Any significant weaknesses identified will be
promptlyrectifiedin close consultationwith IDA. In addition, the externalindependent auditors will be
asked to provide an opinion on the reasonableness of the accounting, reporting and internal controls in
respect of the operations ofthe CompensationFund, andthe audit TORS(acceptableto IDA) will include
these specific requirements. All ineligibleclaims will be refundedto the CompensationFundandto IDA.

86.     Financial Audits. There will be annual audits of the project financial statements, covering all
aspects of the project, including specific requirements for the Compensation Fund. The audits will be
performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (ISA), and the Bank's guidelines on auditing as stated in the guidelines:Audit
Policies and Practices for World Bank-financed activities (June 2003). The auditors' TOR will be
prepared by the PIU and cleared by the Bank before the engagement of the auditor. They will include
boththe audit of financialtransactions, an assessmentof the internalcontrol, funds flow mechanisms, and
the reasonablenessof the accounting, reportingand internalcontrols inrespect ofthe CompensationFund.
The annual audit reports will consist of a single opinion on the financial statements of the project,
incorporating the project accounts, including Special Account Reconciliation, and SOE Withdrawal
Schedule; as well as a Management Letter. The audit reports will be submitted to the Banknot later than
six months after the end of the fiscal year to which they relate. The cost ofthe audits will be eligible for
financing from the Grant./ Credit The PIU will provide the auditor with full access to project-related
documents and records, includingthe compensation claims database, and with the informationrequired
for the purposeofthe audit. SampleTORSfor projectauditwill be includedinthe FinancialManual.



                                                     38

87.     Accounting System, Accounting Policy and Procedures.                 The PIU existing financial
management system will be upgraded to satisfy the reporting needs of the new projects. It will be
comprehensivewith accounting system comprisingan adequate chart of accounts which is in compliance
with the existing laws and regulations in WB&G. The internal control with contain the necessary
safeguard measures for segregation of duties and adequate authorizationand approval mechanisms for
preventionof errors and irregularities.

88.      Books of Registry. In addition to any information system installed, and the books needed to
maintainan accurate and complete recordoftransactions, the PIU will maintaina set of additionalbooks
ofregistry, either within their systemsor outsidethem for controlpurposes. These books will includeand
not be limitedto (i)Fixedassets register; (ii)recordsofcompensationpayments, etc.

89.      Budgeting. The project annual budget process will follow WB&G budget cycle which operates
on an annual basis. The project budget and work plan will be prepared by the PIU on the basis of
informationprovidedby the main ImplementingAgencies and all other implementingentities. The final
consolidated budget will be reviewed and approved by the National Emergency Committee for Avian
InfluenzaControl, before submission to the IDA by November, latest, for the following implementation
year.

90.      Project FinancialStatements. In additionto the quarterly financial reports relatedto the project
activities, the PIU will produce its customary Annual Financial statements and consolidated FMRs.
These projectannual financialstatements will be composedof: (a) consolidatedStatement of Sources and
Applications o f fund; (b) consolidated use of funds by project categoriedactivities;(c) SOE withdrawal
schedules, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursement through the SOE, by
reference number, date andamount; (iv) notes on significantaccounting policiesand accounting standards
adoptedfor the preparationof the accounts; and any supplementary informationor explanationthat may
be deemedappropriate by Managementto enhanceunderstandingofthe financialsituationofthe project.

91.      Country Risks. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) dated June 2004
concludes that the overall Public Finance Management (PFM) risk in WB&G is adequate insofar as the
Bank's criteria and standards for approval of a general budget support operation (or adjustment lending)
are concerned. At the project levelhowever, the FinancialManagement risk Assessment datedNovember
2005 has concludedthat the financial management project risk at 42% was one of the highest in the
region. Project compliance with the FMRs is relatively low and the quality of those received needs
improvement.Furthermore, the PA's liquidity crisis is unprecedentedand civil servant salaries haven't
been paid since March 2006. A massive strike by the staff from MOA and MOH would bring project
implementationto a halt.

92.      Project risk.The project risk from a financial managementperspective is considered substantial
giventhe prevailingfiscal situationofthe PA. Furthermore, the capacity constraint at the levelofthe PIU
could negatively impact the financial management at the initial stage of project implementation.
Mitigating measures would be considered under the AITF grant to build the capacity and ensure full
compliance with the IDA financialreportingrequirements.These measureshave been summarized inthe
actionplantable below.

93.      Supervision. Financial supervision activities will include inter-alia, review of quarterly FMRs,
review o f annual audited financial statements and management letters as well as timely follow up on
issues arising there from. It will also include participationin Bank overall supervision missions of the
project, as appropriate.Statements of Expenditures will be systematically reviewed on a quarterly basis.
There will be about two financialmanagementsupervisions duringthe first year two years andthereafter,
it will be once a year. Bank supervision missions will consist of visits to the PIU as well as to the


                                                    39

implementing agencies to review to review financial management practices, procurement methods,
payment procedures and documentation.

94.     Financial ManagementAction Plan. Financial management arrangements o f the PIU require a
number o f actions to ensure that arrangements are fully satisfactory for the project, with its specific FM
needs, especially with respect to the Compensation Fund. The following action plan will be discussed
with the Borrower during appraisal and at Negotiations. Satisfactory implementation of the action plan
will ensure the establishment of a financial management system that fully meets requirements of the
Project and of the Bank.




                                                   40

                     Action                                     DueDate                Remarks
      Implementation of appropriate                           Ready before     Document producedby
      internal control procedures and fund                    project          Compensation
      flow arrangementsfor the                                effectiveness    committee to serve as the
      CompensationFund component                                               basis for the completion
                                                                               of the Compensation
                                                                               Guidelines
      Staffing Recruitmentof Financial     UNDP / PIU         Ready before- Key staff are already in
      accountants to reinforce the PIU.                       project          place    but     additional
      This is only an action for capacity                     effectiveness    junior staff are needed
      buildingand not a F Mcondition.
      FMProceduresManual. Establish UNDP / PIU                Ready before     The ESSP manual would
      a manual of procedures to fully                         project          be revised and upgraded
      document the procedures for                             effectiveness    to meet the reporting
      accounting and internal control,                                         needs o f the project
      includingdisbursement and flow of
      funds (including flow chart),
      financial reporting, including FMR,
      annual reDorts and audit.
      ProjectAccountingand Financial       UNDP / PIU         Ready by end The first quarter FMRs
      ReportingSystem. Upgrade                                of first         will serve for reviewing
      existing accounting system and                          quarter o f      and re-assessingthe
      software to meet new project                            first year of    system capability.
      reporting requirements (automatic
      generation of FMRs) .Test the                           project
                                                              implementa-
      accounting and reporting system by                      tion.
      producing sample FMRsfor
      submission to the Bank for review
      and comments.




95*      Flow of funds and Banking arrangement. The proceeds o f the Grant will be through Special
accounts opened and operated by the PIU under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance. There will be two
accounts for the compensation and the regular operations of the projects respectively. The PIU will
manage both accounts and keep records of the actual uses of the resources. The Head of the PIU will be a
co-signer of the two accounts with MOF for the regular operations and the Head of the compensation
committee for the payments under the compensation scheme.

96.      The PIU will process all payments, prepare the checks and complete the supporting documents
for transmission to the MOF for the second signature (regular project of operations) and the compensation
committee for the compensation. The PIUwill also be responsible for the preparation o f the monthly bank
reconciliations. The complete procedures for the funds management will be spelled out in the project
manual of procedures.




                                                  41

Allocation of Grant Proceeds




              42

            WEST BANK and GAZA: Avian InfluenzaPreventionand Control project

                                Appendix 7: ProcurementArrangements

A. General

97.     Procurementfor the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description of various items under different
expenditure categories are described in generalbelow. For each contract to be financed by the Grant the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated
costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are given in the General Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds.

98.     The procurement procedures and Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement
method, as well as model contracts for works, goods and consultant services will be presented in the
Project OperationalManual (POM).

99.     Procurement of Works: Civil Works estimated at an aggregate amount of US$1,176,000
include upgrading and extensions works for MOA laboratories and isolatedunits in five hospitals in the
West Bank and Gaza Strip.

100.    Procurement of Goods: Goods are estimated at an aggregate amount of US$2,305,000 to be
procured under the proposed project include office, communication, and laboratory equipment, offices
supplies, software and hardware, personnelprotective equipmentand drugs.

101.     Shopping procurement would cover most of the equipment and vaccination required for the
project. Dueto the emergencynature ofthe project, the threshold for shoppingwould be US$200,000.

102.    Direct contracting: Where certain goods are available only from a particular supplier or in cases
where compatibility with existing equipment so requires, such goods may be procured under Direct
Contacting in accordance with paragraph3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.All Direct Contracting shall
be subject to Prior Review and the concurrenceof the Bank.

103.     Procurement from UN Agencies: A number of specialized UN Agencies are able to act as
suppliers of drugs, vaccines, specialized equipment and supplies, according to their own procurement
procedures. Specialized products where the number of suppliers is limited may be procured from United
Nations Agencies (e.g. WHO, FAO, UNICEF, IAPSO). Ifit is the most appropriateway of procuring the
goods, those activities will be identified inthe ProcurementPlan.

104.     Selectionof Consultants: The Project will finance consulting services estimated at an aggregate
amount of US$412,000 including consulting services for upgrading civil works, training and
communication. Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section 11,
paragraphs 2.1 to 2.31 of the Consultants guidelines will be used for larger assignments under all
Components of the Project. Short lists of consultants for services estimatedto cost less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph2.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines. .




                                                     43

105.    Services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant
Guidelines. The least Cost Selection procedure will be used for the selection of an auditor to carry out
audit and financial statements of the project.

106.    Services for assignmentsthat meet the requirementsset forth inthe first sentence o f paragraph 5.1
of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Under the
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to
individual consultants on a sole-source basis. The recruitment of consulting services will include hiringof
Research Institutes and Universities, and individuals from these entities will also be contracted to carry
out various studies, data collection, and monitoring and evaluation.

107.    Training: A training program including on job training for laboratories technicians will be
carried out in accordance with agreed procedures and on training programs with itemized budgets
approved by the Bank. For continuation and cost-effective raisons, a training program for MOA
laboratories technicians onthe use of CPR will be carried out ina specialized Institution inIsrael.

108.    Operating Costs: Operating Costs estimated at an aggregate amount o f US$713,100 include
staff per diem field allowances, travel expenses, costs of vehicles operation and maintenance, offices
consumables.

109.    Others: Payments of US$4,800,000 under the compensation scheme will be governed by the
Compensation Guidelineswhich will form an integral part of the POM

B. Assessmentof the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

110.    Procurement activities will be carried out by a self contained Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
to be set up and anchored to Ministry of Health.

111.    The PIU will be headed by a Project Coordinator who will report directly to the National
Emergency Committee for Avian Influenza Control (NCAIC) chaired by the MOHfor policy matters and
all technical and operational details concerning overall Project implementation.

112.    The PIU will comprise, in addition to the Project Coordinator, 1 Financial Controller, 1
Accountant, 1 Procurement Consultant, 1 Procurement Officer, 1 Agricultural Expert, 1 Health Expert, 1
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, 1 Outreach Specialist          and 1 support staff. Other than the
Procurement Consultant, the M&ESpecialist and the Outreach Specialist who are not ready available and
need to be hired, all other PIU staff will be civil servants. The two Experts will be designated from the
Ministries of Agriculture and Health and the three fiduciary staff will be designated from the PCU at the
GazaMOHunder ESSP 11.

 113.    The PIU will report to the MoF for compliance with the principles and procedures of Public
Financial Management in WBG as defined by the Organic Budget Law, financial directives, and
operational decrees applicable to ministries.Inthat vein, the MOF will remain responsible for signingand
processing withdrawal applications (WAS). The PIU will be anchored to M O H and established in Gaza.
To ensure, that West Bank is fully covered, a branch office will be maintainedat the M O H inWest Bank
and appropriately staffed with at least four technical staff (procurement, FM, agriculture and health ) who
will work incoordination with the main PIU in Gaza. An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing
Agency to implement procurement actions for the project has been carried out in May 2006 by the
Procurement Specialist assignedto the project team.


                                                     44

114.    The assessmenthas determinedthat the PIU will needto be established and strengthenedso as
to be brought in line with the implementation requirements under the Avian Project. This will be
supported by UNDP-executedAvian and Human InfluenzaFacility Trust FundGrant (UNTF Grant) for
the immediate implementationof critical activitiesbefore the mainproject is launched.Under that Grant,
the UNDPwill finalize the job descriptionof the fiduciary staff and assist the PA with their recruitment.
UNDP will also provide capacity-building as a means to gradually strengthen the main PIU prior to
project effectiveness. This will entail, inter-alia, (i)backstoppingthe PIU Procurement officer in the
preparationof the Procurement Planwith on thejob training, (ii)  assistingthe Financialstaff in settingup
the financial management system to comply with the Bank financial reporting requirements and (iii)
Finalizationofthe ProjectOperationalManual(POM).

115.    The overallprojectrisk for procurement is High.

C. ProcurementPlan

116.    A Procurement Plan (PP) for project implementation covering the initial 12 month period of
project implementationwill be preparedby negotiations. The updated PP for each subsequent year will
be submittedto the Bank for approval before the end of the previous year and will use a pre-defined
format which will, as a minimum,list (i)  goods and services to be procuredduringthe following calendar
year, (ii)their value; (iii) the method of procurement; and (iv) the time table to carry out the
procurement.. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as
requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneedsand improvements in institutionalcapacity. An
initial PP is attachedto the presentappendix and shallbe finalizedand agreedon at Negotiations.

D.ProcurementMethodsand Thresholds

 117.    The Grant agreementwill define the appropriate procurementand selection methods. The annual
Procurement Plan (PP) shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to Bank's prior review
process.All other contractsshallbe subjectto post review.

E.Advertisement
 118.    The GeneralProcurementNotice(GPN) shallbe publishedinthe onlineeditionof DgMarketand
Development Business upon Boardpresentation. Special Procurement Notices (SPN) for all ICB goods
contracts and Requests for Expression of Interest for consulting assignments with firms exceeding the
value of US$200,000 shall be publishedin at least two Nationaldailies of a wide circulationand the on-
 lineeditionof the DgMarketAJNDB.

F.UNAgenciesasProcurementAgents

 119.    In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines Section 3.9, the Project's procurement
 arrangements would include the use of Specialized Agencies of the United Nations (WHO, FA0 and
UNICEF) as suppliers of goods mainly for drugs and vaccines (total estimate of US$350,000) and some
 medical supplies such as reagents and lab equipment. Drugs to be procured under the project are
 registeredin Israelwhich will avoid difficultieswhich usually face the import and registrationof drugs
 offeredfrom abroad. In addition, it is foreseen under the Projectto use the UNDP as procurement agent
 to support the PIU procurement function. The use of UN Agencies as agents will have to meet the
 requirements of Sections 3.10 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. The procurement agents will
 follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines under the standard agreement between the Bank and the
 respective agency.



                                                     45

G. ProcurementSupervision

120.    Given the high procurementrisk of the project and in addition to the prior review supervisionto
be carried out from Bank offices, two (2) supervision missions per year are recommendedto visit the
fieldto carry out ex- postreview of procurementactions.

H. ProcurementAudits

121.    Becausethe Projecthas high level of flexibility built inthe procurementarrangementsandto help
the Bank carry out post-reviews of procurement actions, independent consultants, as part of the project
and at the cost of the project, under TOR acceptableto the Bank, will be hired to review and audit the
procurement process during the implementation. The scope of work of the consultant to carry out the
procurement audit, does not replace the Bank obligation to carry out its ex-post review at least once a
year.

I.Fraud,CoercionandCorruption

122.    All procuring entities as well as bidders, suppliersand contractorsshall observe the highest
standardof ethics during the procurementand executionof contracts financed underthe Project in
accordance with paragraphs 1.15 & 1.16 ofthe ProcurementGuidelinesand paragraphs 1.25 & 1.26of
the ConsultantsGuidelines.The PIUwill follow the Bank's anti-corruption measures and will not engage
services of firms and individuals debarred by the Bank. The listing of debarred firms and individuals is
locatedat: http://www.worldbank.org/html/opr/procure/debarr.htm.




                                                     46

                                          Procurement Plan


I- General

1- Agreed date of the Procurement Plan
  Original: August 8,2006
   Revision 1:

2- Date of GeneralProcurement Notice : estimated September 10,2006



11-Goods and Works and Non Consultinp Services




         ProcurementMethods          Prior Review Threshold
                                            (us$)                              Comments

1    NCB(Goods)                      > 100,000               All subject to prior review

2    Shopping( Goods)                > 100,000               All subject to prior review

3    NCB (Works)                     >200,000                All subject to prior review

4    Shopping( Works)                > 100,000               All subject to prior review




2- Any other Special Procurement Arrangements: payments of compensation will be governed by the
    Compensation manual which will form an integral part of the Project OperationalManual (POM).

3- Procurement Itemswith Methods and planned dates: See planningbelow




   SelectionMethod                       Prior Review Threshold(US $)                    Comment

1 CompetitiveMethods( Firms)             > 100,000                        All subject to prior review
   QCBS
2 CompetitiveMethods( Firms)             >50,000                          All subject to prior review
   LCS
3  CompetitiveMethods( Firms)            > 50,000                         All subject to prior review
   CQ
   Individual Consultant                 >25,000                          All subject to prior review

   Sole Source Selection ( Firms and                                      All subject to prior review
   Individuals)



                                                  47

2- Short list comprising entirelyof nationalconsultants: Short list of consultantsfor services, estimatedto
  cost less than U S $200,000 equivalent per contract, may compriseentirely of national consultantsin
  accordance with the provisions ofparagraph2.7 of the ConsultantsGuidelines.

3- Consultancyassignments with SelectionMethods and planneddates: See planningbelow


 IV- Training

Training activities under the project will be carried out in accordance with agreed procedures and on
training programs with itemizedbudgets approvedby the Bank.


  V- Other

Ex- Post Review: All other contracts below Bank's prior review thresholds are subject to bank's ex-post
review. Periodic review by bank's staff will be undertaken during supervision missions. Procurement
documents, such as bidding documents, bids, bid evaluation reports and correspondences relatedto bids
and contracts will be kept readily available for Bank's ex-post review during supervisionmissions or at
any other point intime.




                                                    48


0
v,

-I-


      T
T




 j 1



TT

             WEST BANKand GAZA: Avian InfluenzaPreventionand ControlProject

                                  Appendix 8: Environmentaland SocialIssues


123.     The project has been classified as category B Project since it involves moderate environmental
impacts that can be managed duringthe implementation o f the project.

124.     Prevention-focused activities are expected to have positive environmental impacts as project
investments infacilities, equipment, laboratories, and training will improvethe effectiveness and safety of
existing AI handling and testing procedures by meeting international standards established by the OIE.
This would be reinforced by the mainstreaming of environmental safeguards into the protocols and
procedures for culling and disposal of animals during AI outbreaks, decontamination of production
facilities, and laboratory biosafety. However, adverse environmental health impacts, mainly inadvertent
spread o f HPAI, could occur when an emergency operation involves containment of HPAI outbreaks
through quarantine, isolation and stamping out actions and when relevant mitigation measures are not in
~1ace.l~

125.     The primary potential riskscan be grouped into three categories:

         (a)      Inadvertenthuman exposure and spread o fthe virus due to: improper culling and disposal
                  of dead birds (wild birds,16sick and dead birds from backyardand commercial poultries);
                  lack of, or improper use of personal protection equipment (PPE); improper disposal of
                  farm waste (i.e., bedding, manure, washings, etc. during and/or after an outbreak);             l7and
                  inadequate lab biosafety protocols.

         (b)      Inadvertent release o f chemicals inthe environment from unsatisfactory decontamination
                  procedures (for personnel, poultry sheds, and transport vehicles, etc.).

         (c)      Release of chemicals and infectious agents into the environment from inadequate
                  laboratory and medical facility waste management.


126.     The project triggersOP 4.01 on Environment Assessment and OP 4.09 on Pest Management. The
safeguard issues which pertain to the Project are (i)        selection and implementation o f culling methods; (ii)
selection and implementation of disposal methods for culled poultry and associated waste; (ii)safe
disposal o f medical waste; and (iv) mitigating the negative economic impacts o f disease-inducted death
and/or mandated culling o f poultry on small-scale and backyard poultry producers.

127.     OP 4.09 on Pest Management: The procurement of any pesticide will be contingent on an
assessment o f the nature and degree of associated risks, taking into account the proposed use and the
intended users. The Project will require that any pesticides it finances be manufactured, packaged,
labeled, handled, stored, disposed of, and applied according to standards acceptable to the Bank. The



l5InterimGuidelinesfor ManagingPotentialEnvironmentalAnd Social SafeguardIssues inBank-AssistedAvian
Influenza Control Projects, QualityAssuranceand Compliance Unit, World BankApril 2006
l6Interim Guidelinesfor the Protectionof PersonsHandlingWild Birds With Referenceto Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
H5N1, datedAugust 23, 2005    - httrd/www.nwhc.uses.eov/uublications/wildlifehealth bulletins/WHR 05 0 3 . i ~ ~ .
  These include dead birds, after post mortemexamination, decontamination androutinelaboratorywastes. See WHO fact sheet
httu://~~~.who,int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs28 andWHO/World Bank (2005) "Better HealthCare Waste Management" by
                                              lleni
P. Rushbookand R. Zghondi.
                                                            57

Bank does not finance formulated products that fall in WHO classes IA and IB, or formulations of
products inClass 11, if(a) the country lacks restrictions on their distribution and use; or (b) they are likely
to be used by, or be accessible to, lay personnel, farmers, or others without training, equipment, and
facilities to handle, store, and apply these productsproperly.

128.     The project will not finance activities which would trigger OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement.
e.g., selected disposal sites, landfills and burial pits, will be on public land rather than private sites to
avoid land expropriation.

129.     The project will be processed under OP8.50 and the first activity of this project will be the
development of an EMP, which will be disclosed in the country and in the Infoshop. The proposed
investmentsin laboratory facilities, equipment and stafftraining will improve the effectiveness and safety
of Avian Influenza and testing proceduresby meeting international standards by the World Organization
for Animal Health (OIE). Whatever medicalwaste is generated inhealth care facilities and waste from the
animal health component will be managed using existing guidelines inthe countries. The country project
will also support updating these guidelines, training of health care workers to manage medicinal waste
following these guidelines and the purchase of equipmentfor the proper handling and disposal of medical
waste in selected facilities. This provision would be included in the project operational manual (or
equivalent).

130.     Overall, the Project would assist the government entities to develop a strategy for managing
future emergingand re-emergingdiseases outbreaks.As suchthe project will improve environmental and
social safeguards in following areas: (a) mainstreaming environmental safeguards into protocols and
proceduresfor the culling and disposalof animals and waste during an outbreak, inparticular by adopting
OIE standards and aligned with WHO procedures and recommendations, and improving bio-medical-
waste management systems in health facilities and laboratories; (b) financing safe culling and disposal
options; and (c) development of policies on compensation for poultry farmers affected by future
outbreaks.

131.     Since the project supports investments for the culling and disposal of carcasses and laboratory
wastes, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared. The EMP will be developed
following the "Interim Guidelines for Managing Potential Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in
Bank-AssistedAvian Influenza Control Projects", Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit, April 2006.
The EMP will cover the selection of appropriate culling methods, clean-up of animal wastes of infected
and culled poultry and selection and management of disposal facilities. The scope of this EMP will be
specified during the initial period of Project implementation.

132.     Under the project an EnvironmentalSpecialist will be hired to oversee the implementation
of the Environmental activities. The disclosure of the EMP in the country and InfoShop will be a
condition for disbursement for the implementationof culling and disposal activities. On the conditions of
disbursement on the compensation component: any conditions will apply for future culling, not past
culling, with the conditionality applying only to the completion and operation ofthe EMP.




                                                      58

             WEST BANKand GAZA: Avian InfluenzaPreventionand ControlProject


                       Appendix 9: AdditionalBackgroundon Compensation            '*


Determiningthe Reasonsfor Compensation

133.    The reason for compensation affects decisions about who shouldbe compensated(see 2) and how
the process should work (see 3-5). Compensation can therefore be considered for different reasons, which
are:

    Compensation increasethe incentives to report suspected cases of AI influenza inpoultry
0   Itis arguably a government responsibilityto compensatewhen private assets of citizens are destroyed
    for public purposes;
    Livelihood support: Provide a "safety net" to protect the different groups of farmers against the
    economic losses incurred by having to wait for restocking and/or when they cannot sell their birds
    anymore due to the enforcement of movement restrictions. This may take the form o f insurance or
    some kindo f social security. Strictly speaking this is not compensation, although it is often discussed
    at the same time that compensation i s being planned, and in countries with a well-funded livestock
    sector, both compensation and livelihoods support mechanisms may be inplace.

134.    These reasonsjustify a typical compensation process where any farmers whose birds are culled
by "culling teams" (as decided by authorities) are compensatedfor the birds destroyed. Ifthe government
provides complete compensation whenever things go wrong, individuals are not encouraged to take steps
to reduce risk. Therefore, compensation would not normally be 100% of lost revenues. Instead risks are
shared between farmers and the government, and part of the risk may be borne by some kindo f insurance
scheme to which farmers contribute (see later).

DecidingWho Will be Compensated

135.    The questions that need to be considered are: (i)which actors or stakeholders? (ii)should
compensation be limited to farmers or also include processors and marketers? (iii)Should all sizes of
farms/poultry production sectors be included? (iv) how will social biases (e.g., anti-poor, gender, ethnic
group, etc.) be avoided?

136.    The aim o ftargetingwho is goingto be compensatedis basedon:

    Encouraging early disease reporting;
0   Encouraging people to take part in official compensation schemes, everyone whose birds are culled
    needs to be included.

137.    Ifcare is nottaken inplanning, certain key stakeholders (often the most vulnerable or those with
least "voice") can be excluded from compensation programs. This can reduce the effectiveness o f control
programs and the bio-security status in affected areas.

138.    Especially at the beginning of the epidemic, ifthere is no compensation for dead animals there is
the risk of animal movement (Le. disease spread). However death might not be due to HPAI but to
similar diseases (e.g. NewcastleDisease).
'*This approachto compensationprovidedby FA0 consultant following April 2006 missionto WBG.
                                                     59

Agreeingon the Levelof Compensation

139.     Special attention has been given up to now on the mechanism on how to determine the
compensation level. This is indeeda delicate but crucial area that needs to be seriously debated between
stakeholders in the poultry sector. Points that the government needs to take into account when deciding
the price for compensation are:

    It is generally better to have uniformpricesat nationallevelto avoid people/farmers moving birds.
    This is to avoid movementwf birds due to price differences, as this would increase disease spread
    nationally;
    Different prices by species and category (age, broiler or layer) should be negotiated but it is advised
    notto include too many categories. Keepthe list short to make it administratively implementable;
    Decide in advance what compensationprice will be based on productioncosts in the case o f West
    Bank and Gaza Strip given that market prices are distorted;
    State a date when the compensationwill be receivedby the farmer (and stick to it);
    It may also be necessary also to include production losses from "downtime" or birds that die from
    HPAI. For farmer compliance with the emergency contingency scheme. If farmers are adequately
    compensated they are more likely to comply with culling schemes. Losses from downtime can be
    considerable. However, while estimating losses is quite simple for commercial flocks, it i s more
    difficult for backyardflocks. WHY?

DecidingWhether the Costs of ControlMeasureswill beRefunded

140.     Funds should be readily available through pro-rata estimates (e.g. amount per farm/household
culled) for direct disease control measures associated to the culling activities such as disinfection,
protection for cullingteams etc.

141.     A contingency or compensation plan will be less effective if it does not take into account the
direct costs o f culling and control measuresthat may be borne by farmers. Compensation programs might
provide good opportunities for building capacity in biosecurity. Funds may be provided to allow
upgradingo f biosecurity (e.g. birdproofing farms etc).

Administeringand EnforcingCompensation

 142.    Governments needto decide inadvance on the way people have to register for compensation. The
date o f compensation needs to be clearly stated to farmers for compliance. The numbers o f animals
reported need to be checked for accuracy taking into account that each production system presents a
different kind o f challenge. Accuracy checking is also important to avoid "double compensation" or
people missingout.

 143.    However an accurate and accountable registration scheme may be difficult to implement (see
chart below). State culling teams could register the number o f birds culled, but they need to work fast,
otherwise infected birdsmight die or people cull their own birds before they can be registered.

 144.    The system to make payments needs to be simple and make use o f existing institutions(e.g.
veterinary services, financial institutions, NGOs etc).     Farmers might not have a bank account for
receiving a payment. The efficiency o f these institutions, though, needs to be evaluated before engaging
them.




                                                    60

FundingStrata

145.    The setting up, source o f funding and management o f the fund need to be planned in close
collaboration with the Ministry o f Finance and may require changes of legislation. Areas that needto be
discussed inadvance are:

    Estimate how much is neededto set upthe fund (from previous information, i.e. number of animals,
    categories and compensation levels);
    Sources o f funding may be from national and/or local levels. Dependingon the structure of public
    finances of the country i.e. devolution levels;
    Ideally, funding i s from both public and private sources. With a well organized private sector, it i s
    possible to set up a fund for livestock emergencies, to which the government and the private sector
    can contribute. This sharing is to encourage reporting, help to ensure against losses, share the
    financial risk between the public and private sector so that both will take steps to reduce the disease
    risk;
    Commercial farmers may take out private insurance if a scheme i s available. Insuredfarmers will
    probably be askedtojoin a quality management scheme;
    Incase of internationalcontribution, there is a needto agree on how the funds will be disbursedand
    the monitoring process.HPAI being a Global Public Good (GPG) there is a rationale for international
    contribution;
    Decide who is going to manage the fund and where it i s going to be located (i.e. ministry of finance
    (MoF) / ministry of agriculture (MOA)).Decide on fast mechanisms to disburse those funds to the
    local level. MOAtends to have the technical expertise but generally MoF does not allow other
    ministriesto managefunds for what is labeled as "accountability reasons" (see chart below).

146.    Finally, it is important to take a clear decision on what is the authorities' strategy whenhf the
disease becomes endemic with regard to the compensation scheme above elaborated. When dealing with
endemic HPAI and the possibility of poultry vaccination, attention should be drawn to the interventions
needed to modify biosecurity conditions associated to the existing poultry production system in the
country (Le. backyard raisingand smallholder producers).




                                                    61

                   WEST BANKand GAZA: Avian InfluenzaPreventionand ControlProject


                                    Appendix 10: Documentsin the ProjectFile



- Highly Assessment of CountryPreparedness(Prevention andControlCapacity): J. - Lambers,

---- PoultryProductioninthe West Bank andGaza: Summary
         contractedFA0 consultant

         VulnerabilityAnalysisandMapping,MarketMonitoring:FA0
         InteragencyFrameworkfor Avian InfluenzaandPandemicResponse:UN
         InteragencyFrameworkfor Avian InfluenzaCosts: UN
- Appealfor Avian FluEpidemics andPandemicPreparedness,ContainmentandResponseinthe

-------- ProjectImplementationChart:MinistryofAgriculture (suggestedoutline)
        West BankandGaza: FA0
         ImpactofAvian FluonLivelihoodsand FoodSecurity
         ProposedCompensationStrategy: Ministry ofAgriculture
         InfectedAreas of Avian Flu in West Bank & Gaza- MAP: WHO
         List ofNeededsupplies: Ministry of Health
         List ofCulledBirds inGazaand West Bank:Ministry ofAgriculture

         ProjectOrgan Gram - ProjectSteeringCommittee: MinistryofAgriculture
         Organizationofthe Ministry ofAgriculture


----- List
         OrganizationalStructure ofthe GD for PlanningandPolicy:MOA
         PurchasingCycles:MOA
         PoultrySector, Agricultural Statistics: MOA
             ofpoultryproducerscompensatedthroughthe RussianFudnig:MOA
         CompensationStrategy-West BankandGaza Strip:A. Riviere-Cinnamond,contractedFA0
        Consultant. June 3 - 15,2006




                                                      62

