Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/23/2007 
Report No.:  AC2369
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  West Bank and Gaza 
Project ID:  P100568 
Project Name:  Avian and Human Influenza Prevention and Control Project 
Task Team Leader:  Huong-Giang Lucie Tran 
Estimated Appraisal Date: August 10, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: September 7, 2006 
Managing Unit:  MNSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  General public administration sector (60%);Health (31%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (5%);Solid waste management (3%);Other social services 
(1%) 
Theme:  Other communicable diseases (P);Natural disaster management (P);Rural 
services and infrastructure (P);Pollution management and environmental health (S);Social 
risk mitigation (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
In line with the GPAI, the overall objective is to minimize the threat posed to humans by 
HPAI infection and Avian Influenza in domestic poultry and to prepare for, control, and 
respond to an influenza pandemic and other infectious disease emergencies in humans. 
To achieve this objective, two areas of activity will be supported: (i) preparedness and 
planning and (ii) response and containment.   
 
3. Project Description 
Consistent with the GPAI, the project development objective is to achieve a minimum 
level of spread of AI to humans through better preparedness, control, and response; and 
achieve a minimum level of income loss of targeted farmers through compensation.  
 
This would be measured by:  
 
Page  2
Sustained prevention rate among high-risk groups; Reduced infection rate of HPAI in 
poultry; and a targeted percentage of farmer's income loss compensated.  
 
Project Components  
 
Component 1: Animal Health and Veterinary Services (US$5,860,000).  
 
This component will support the preparation and implementation of HPAI prevention 
and containment activities in the poultry sector. In the design of this component particular 
attention has been paid to consistency and coordination between the urgent short-term 
project activities that will be financed under a stand-alone US$3.0 million grant from the 
UNTF Grant, and the longer term activities to be conducted under this Project, as 
follows:  
 
Surveillance and Diagnostic Capacity (US$680,000). Activities include: (a) training of 
field staff on surveillance and monitoring; (b) provision of personal protective equipment 
(PPE) for field technicians directly exposed to the risk of contamination during 
surveillance; (c) vaccines; (d) equipping of a veterinary laboratory in Gaza including 
supply of reagents and laboratory disposables, as well as the upgrading of the capacity of 
the existing laboratory in WB; (e) training for lab technicians; (f) and some activities in 
community awareness and social mobilization (mainly targeted at persons along the 
poultry production line). Potential activities may also include the provision of appropriate 
quarantine measures and the development of a routine collection and update of 
epidemiological data.  
 
Culling and Disposal. (US$380,000)  This sub-component will support culling and 
preparation and disinfection of disposal sites and poultry farms, plus the provision of 
technical assistance to PA counterparts on culling procedures and data collection.  
 
Compensation for Income Loss (US$4,800,000).  This component will provide technical 
support for the compensation committee and a proportion of the compensation funding. 
All the necessary legal, operational and institutional arrangements for carrying out this 
sub-component will be developed in the first few months of implementation through the 
AITF grant to UN agencies (UNTF Grant).  
 
Component 2: Human Health (US$2,907,000).  
 
This component will support activities aimed at preventing the spread of the AI virus to 
humans. Particular attention has been paid in the design of the component to ensure 
consistency and coordination between the urgent short-term project activities to be 
conducted under the UNTF Grant and the long-term activities which will be conducted 
under this Project. The following activities will be supported under this Component:  
 
Prevention & Human Safety (US$482,000):  through (a) the protection of medical and 
field staff and other highly exposed groups involved in identification/surveillance of the 
Page  3
disease. Adequate resources will be allocated for Protective clothing (PPE), Prophylaxis 
treatment, disinfection materials, and vaccination against seasonal human influenza; and 
(b) social mobilization and raising public awareness in the community.  
 
Strengthening Public Health Surveillance Systems (US$75,000): To assess risks to 
public health and to guide preventive interventions, information is needed on the extent 
of influenza infection in animals and humans, on circulating viruses, and on other priority 
infectious diseases. To this end, the project would support strengthening the capacity of 
existing laboratories. This will include the provision of equipment necessary for 
specimen collection, transportation, and testing. It will also support upgrading of the 
diagnostic capacity of existing laboratories.  
 
Health System Response (US$2,350,000):   While precise figures are difficult to 
estimate, the burden on the health system is likely to be considerable. With the present 
situation, the potential of the HPAI virus to become transmissible among humans is of 
serious concern. Thus, building an effective national public health response would be part 
of an integrated national plan to bring proven interventions quickly up to a nationwide 
scale. Activities under this sub-component will include:  
 
-
Vaccinations: In the event of an avian influenza pandemic (when vaccines 
become available), funding will be made available for implementing a detailed logistical 
(procurement and distribution) plan for the vaccination of targeted priority groups.  
 
-
Drug Therapy: The use of anti-viral drugs will be part of the approach to contain 
an avian influenza pandemic and to reduce morbidity and mortality. Therefore, support 
will be provided for the purchase of Tami flu (antiviral drug). Priority would be given to 
population groups most exposed to immediate risk. The project would support the use of 
the anti-viral drugs for: (a) post exposure; and (b) extended prophylaxis;  
 
-
Medical services:  Based on the needs assessment which will be conducted under 
the UNTF Grant, assistance will be provided to the health care system for preparedness to 
provide optimal medical care and maintain essential community services. Strengthened 
clinical care capacity could be achieved through establishing specialized units in selected 
hospitals.  
 
Component 3: Public Awareness and Environmental Management (US$519,900)  
 
Current assessments indicate there are at least two areas of activity where contingency 
funds will need to meet evolving needs: (a) further activities on public awareness and 
information which may have not been addressed under components 1 & 2; and (b) 
implementation of an environmental risk management plan.  
 
(a) Public Awareness and Information  
 
A
coordinated awareness and information campaign is needed to target the general 
public, especially the rural population and areas of common backyard poultry breeding 
Page  4
(high-risk areas). Some public awareness activities will be carried out under Component 
2
with oversight from the MOH. The MOA also plans to print out and distribute leaflets 
and brochures (under Component 1) targeting poultry producers. Additional activities not 
accounted for under Components 1 and 2 will be financed under Component 3. The PIU 
will retain a communications specialist/agency to prepare a public awareness strategy in 
consultation with key UN agencies and NGOs (UNICEF, PARC, etc). Communication 
methods could include:  
 
Public meetings targeting women and farmers on means of protecting humans from AI.  
This may  include field and house to house visits;  
 
Creation of a Hot line emergency telephones where specialized veterinarians on call will 
be provided with basic instruments and clothing needed for emergency checkups; and  
 
Mid-term evaluation workshop.  
 
(b) Implementation of Environmental Management Plan  
 
This sub-component will implement measures as described in the Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP) which will be developed as part of the activities under the 
UNTF and of the Environmental Assessment (see safeguards section). The EA/EMP will 
be developed following the Interim Guidelines for Managing Potential Environmental 
and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Assisted Avian Influenza Control Projects, Quality 
Assurance and Compliance Unit, April 2006.  
 
These measures may include:  
 
implementation of sound culling methods;  
 
safe disposal of culled birds and disposal of farm waste (manure, eggs, feathers, 
contaminated equipment, etc);  
 
transport of infectious materials and dead birds;  
 
appropriate landfill site management;  
 
safe disposal of medical waste.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be implemented in all the districts of the West Bank and Gaza.  Certain 
activities such as the equipping and upgrading of veterinary laboratories under the 
Animal Health Component, or the strengthening of existing laboratories for the Human 
Health Component, are localized in the West Bank and Gaza, while activities such as 
culling and disposal will be carried out in specific disposal sites and poultry farms to be 
determined during project execution and as specified in the EMP which will be prepared 
during implementation.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Colin S. Scott (MNSSD) 
Page  5
Ms Stefanie U.S. Brackmann (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project has been classified as a category B Project since it involves moderate 
environmental impacts which can be managed during project implementation. The 
project triggers OP 4.01 on Environment Assessment and OP 4.09 on Pest Management. 
The safeguard issues which pertain to the Project are: (a) selection and implementation of 
culling methods; (b) selection and implementation of disposal methods for culled poultry 
and associated waste; (c) safe disposal of medical waste; and (d) mitigating the negative 
economic impacts of disease-inducted death and/or mandated culling of poultry on small-
scale and backyard poultry producers.  
 
OP 4.09 on Pest Management: The procurement of any pesticide will be contingent on 
an assessment of the nature and degree of associated risks, taking into account the 
proposed use and intended users. The Project will require that any pesticide it finances be 
manufactured, packaged, labeled, handled, stored, disposed of, and applied according to 
standards acceptable to the Bank. The Bank does not finance formulated products that fall 
in WHO classes IA and IB, or formulations of products in Class II, if (a) the country 
lacks restrictions on their distribution and use; or (b) they are likely to be used by, or be 
accessible to, lay personnel, farmers, or others without training, equipment, and facilities 
to handle, store, and apply these products properly.  
 
The project will not finance activities which would trigger OP4.12 on Involuntary 
Resettlement, e.g., selected disposal sites, landfills and burial pits will be on public land 
rather than private sites to avoid land expropriation.  
 
The project will be processed under OP8.50 and the first activity of this project will be 
the development of an EMP, which will be disclosed in the country and in the Bank?s 
InfoShop.  
 
Page  6
The proposed investments in laboratory facilities, equipment and staff training will 
improve the effectiveness and safety of avian influenza and testing procedures by 
meeting international standards by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE). 
Whatever medical waste is generated in health care facilities and waste from the animal 
health component will be managed using existing country guidelines. The country project 
will also support updating these guidelines, training health care workers to manage 
medicinal waste following these guidelines and the purchase of equipment for the proper 
handling and disposal of medical waste in selected facilities. This provision would be 
included in the project operational manual (or equivalent).   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Overall, the Project would assist government entities to develop a strategy for managing 
future emerging and re-emerging disease outbreaks. As such, the project will improve 
environmental and social safeguards in the following areas: (a) mainstreaming 
environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal of 
animals and waste during an outbreak, in particular by adopting OIE standards aligned 
with WHO procedures and recommendations, and improving bio-medical-waste 
management systems in health facilities and laboratories; (b) financing safe culling and 
disposal options; and (c) development of compensation policies for poultry farmers 
affected by future outbreaks.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Since the project supports investments for the culling and disposal of carcasses and 
laboratory waste, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared. The EMP 
will be developed following the Interim Guidelines for Managing Potential 
Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Assisted Avian Influenza Control 
Projects, Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit, April 2006.  The EMP will cover the 
selection of appropriate culling methods, clean-up of animal waste from infected and 
culled poultry, and selection and management of disposal facilities. The scope of this 
EMP will be specified during the initial period of Project implementation.  
 
The disclosure of the EMP in the country and InfoShop will be a condition of 
disbursement for the implementation of culling and disposal activities. On the conditions 
of disbursement for the compensation component, any conditions will apply for future 
culling, not past culling, with the conditionality applying only to the completion and 
operation of the EMP.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
Page  7
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/31/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/31/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
10/31/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/31/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/31/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
10/31/2007 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The project will be processed under OP 8.00 and the first activity of this project will be 
the development of an EMP, which will be disclosed in the country and in the InfoShop.  
 
The Pest Management Plan will be addressed and disclosed as part of the EMP.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
No 
Page  8
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Husam Abu Dagga 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Stefanie U.S. Brackmann 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Colin S. Scott 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sherif Kamel F. Arif 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Luis F. Constantino 
 
Comments:   
