                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: NCO00001234



                      NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION
                            (P100568) (TF-57322)

                                         ON A

                                       GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                            WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                       FOR AN

  AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT

                         UNDER THE FRAMEWORK OF

   GLOBAL PROGRAM FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA AND HUMAN PANDEMIC
              PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE (GPAI)




                                September 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Country Department 4
Middle East and North Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective September 3, 2009)

                 Currency Unit = Israeli New Shekel (ILS)
                           3.79 ILS = US$1.00


                               FISCAL YEAR

                          January 1 ­ December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AI      Avian Influenza
FAO     Food & Agriculture Organization
GPAI    Global Program for Avian Influenza
HPAI    Highly pathogenic avian influenza
H5N1    Avian Influenza A-type virus
IDA     International Development Association
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
NCAIC   National Emergency Committee for Avian Influenza Control
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
NCO     Note On Cancelled Operation
PA      Palestinian Authority
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
POM     Project Operational Manual
PP      Procurement Plan
SA      Special Account
TFGWB   Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
WB&G    West Bank & Gaza
WHO     World Health Organization


                        Vice President:   Shamshad Akhtar
                      Country Director:   A. David Craig
                       Sector Manager:    Luis Constantino
                  Project Team Leader:    Lucie Tran
                   NCO Team Leader:       Lucie Tran




                                    ii
                                  WEST BANK AND GAZA
                    Avian and Human Influenza Prevention and Control Project


                                                     CONTENTS

Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. ......................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 9
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance...................................................................... 10
  5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 11
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 12
  Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 14
  MAP




                                                          iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Avian and Human
Country:                West Bank and Gaza         Project Name:        Influenza Prevention and
                                                                        Control Project
Project ID:             P100568                    L/C/TF Number(s):    TF-57322
NCO Date:               09/01/2009
                                                                        The Palestine Liberation
                                                                        Organization (PLO) for
                        Emergency Recovery
Lending Instrument:                                Borrower:            the Benefit of the
                        IDA Grant
                                                                        Palestinian Authority
                                                                        (PA)
Original Total
                        US$10.0 Million            Disbursed Amount:    US$0.34 Million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         US$10.0 Million
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health (MOH); Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/11/2006      Effectiveness:           02/14/2006            03/14/2007
Appraisal:             07/24/2006      Closing:                 01/31/2009            03/31/2009
Approval:              09/07/2006

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                          N/A
Risk to Development Outcome:                       N/A
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                               Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                  5
General public administration sector                                             60



                                              iv
Health                                                                           31
Other social services                                                            1
Solid waste management                                                           3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                                      25
Other communicable diseases                                                      25
Pollution management and environmental health                                    13
Rural services and infrastructure                                                24
Social risk mitigation                                                           13
E. Bank Staff
          Positions                      At NCO                            At Approval
Vice President:             Shamshad Akhtar                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:           A. David Craig                      A. David Craig
Sector Manager:             Luis F. Constantino                 Luis F. Constantino
Project Team Leader:        Lucie Tran                          Husam Abu Dagga
NCO Team Leader:            Lucie Tran
NCO Primary Author:         Richard James

F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
    No.                             DO                         IP              Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
                                                         Moderately
     1    12/28/2006     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                    0.00
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                         Moderately
     2    04/16/2007      Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.00
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                         Moderately
     3    12/03/2007     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                    1.181
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                         Moderately
     4    12/11/2007     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                    1.18
                                                        Unsatisfactory
     5    06/23/2008          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                1.18
                                                         Moderately
     6    11/15/2008     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                    1.18
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                         Moderately
     7    03/10/2009     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                    1.18
                                                        Unsatisfactory



1
 GBP 600,000 equivalent was deposited in the Special Account out of which GBP 518,431 (US$1.04
million) was refunded on June 3, 2009.



                                               v
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

Country and Sector background

1.      The economic climate of WB&G has not changed much since the time the
projectwas appraised in July 2006. All economic activities have been stifled because of
volatile political and security situation and restrictions on the movement of people and
goods. During project appraisal, the Palestinian Authority (PA) faced liquidity crisis
because of several factors, including Israel's freeze on Palestinian clearance revenues, aid
sanctions which took hold around January 2006 in the aftermath of Hamas' winning a
majority in the Palestinian legislative Council elections, and the reluctance of commercial
banks to lend to the PA. As a result, the PA was unable to pay most of its recurrent costs
including civil servant salaries for most of 2006. After Hamas took control of
Government and security positions in the Gaza Strip, the Palestinian President swore in a
new Caretaker Government in June 2007 and declared the Hamas authority in Gaza
illegal. Following this action, Israel and the international community endorsed the
Government and financial and technical assistance began to be reinstated. However,
since the Hamas takeover of Gaza, the crossings into the Strip remain sealed except for a
limited amount of basic humanitarian goods. Karni, the only commercial crossing point
between Gaza and Israel, has been sealed since June 2007, three months after the project
became effective in March 2007.

2.     The West Bank and Gaza (WB&G) is considered a high risk due to the proximity
of outbreaks of Avian Influenza (AI) in the neighboring countries and the large volume of
bird migrations through the area. WB&G and its neighbors are located in the middle of
one of the main routes for migratory wild birds traveling between Asia and Africa and
along which an estimated 550 million wild birds pass over WB&G twice yearly. The first
outbreak of AI occurred in March 2006 in the Middle district and North district of the
Gaza strip, affecting chickens and ducks. By the end of April 2006, the AI virus was
confirmed across eight locations in Gaza. About 400,000 birds were culled. Poultry
owners were compensated with an emergency grant provision from Russia.

3.      A UN Interagency Framework for Avian Influenza Response was developed to
assist the PA in containing the current AI epidemic and reducing the threat of a human
influenza pandemic. The World Bank support was provided through two parallel grants:
(a) a grant for emergency preparation activities implemented by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and financed through the Avian and Human Influenza
(AHI) Facility Grant for US$3.0 million, of which the European Commission is the major
donor; and (b) a US$10.0 million grant, the Project, designed as a follow-up operation to
the AHI grant, implemented by the Palestinian Authority (PA), and financed through the
World Bank Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank (TFGWB).

4.     The Project was provided based on the UN interagency plan, which provides a
platform for a coordinated, multi-disciplinary and flexible response to AI outbreaks. The
Bank's Rapid Assessment team, in accordance with the recommendations of the World



                                             1
Bank Note on Approaches to Avian Influenza in Fragile States, concluded that an
immediate implementation of critical activities through the UN System with Government
approval would be the only effective solution. To this end, the Bank provided the UNDP
with a US$3.0 million Grant to implement emergency activities which would ensure the
establishment of necessary measures for surveillance and minimizing the risk of HPAI in
animal and human populations. This entailed the financing of the most critical start up
activities as outlined in the UN Interagency AI Response Framework, and lays out the
foundation for activities under the Bank's Global Program for Avian Influenza (GPAI)
and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

5.     The WB&G was eligible for the World Bank grant funding and had requested the
Bank's assistance. However, at the time of preparation, it is noteworthy to add that there
was strong pressure in the region (from Israel and Egypt) as well as from the World Bank
which strongly advocated an AI project following the outbreak in Gaza.

6.       The Bank has a comparative advantage in providing funding for financing gaps in
support of the regional and global `good' of containing Avian Flu and, according to the
Global Program for Avian Influenza (GPAI) framework document, the WB&G was
eligible as a "newly-infected country with an active outbreak of avian flu among poultry
but no human infection, and the existence of an appropriate program of rapid response,
detection and containment measures." The Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI)
control programs require a multi-disciplinary approach to integrate socio-economic issues
with technical and regulatory policies. Since the Bank's comparative advantage is its
ability to mobilize financial resources as well as to introduce international best practices,
it forged partnership with the UN technical agencies recognizing the key role these
agencies were playing through UN Interagency Framework. The Bank worked with
technical counterparts and the donor community to ensure that all activities
complemented the 2005 National Avian Influenza Control and Eradication Plan, which
formed the basis for dealing with AI nationally.

Original Project Development Objectives and Key Monitoring Indicators (as
approved):

7.    The purpose of the Project was to assist the Palestinian Authority in: (a)
minimizing the threat posed to humans by HPAI infection and other zoonoses in
domestic poultry; and (b) preparing for controlling, and responding to, avian influenza
pandemic and other infectious disease emergencies among humans.

8.      The project consisted of the following components:

Component 1: Animal Health and Veterinary Services (US$5.86 million)

     (a) Surveillance and diagnostic capacity (US$680,000): (a) training of field staff on
         surveillance and monitoring; (b) provision of personal protective equipment for
         field technicians directly exposed to the risk of contamination during surveillance;


                                              2
       (c) purchase of vaccines; (d) equipping of a veterinary laboratory in Gaza
       including supply of reagents and laboratory disposables, as well as the upgrading
       of an existing laboratory in West Bank; (e) training for laboratory technicians; and
       (f) activities in community awareness and social mobilization.
   (b) Culling and disposal (US$380,000): support culling and preparation and
       disinfection of disposal sites and poultry farms, and technical assistance to the PA
       counterparts on culling procedures and data collection.
   (c) Compensation for income loss (US$4,800,000): provide technical support for the
       compensation committee and a proportion of the compensation funding.

Component 2: Human Health (US$2.97 million)

   (a) Prevention & human safety (US$482,000): (a) the protection of medical and field
       staff and other highly exposed groups involved in identification/surveillance of
       the disease, provision of protective clothing, prophylaxis treatment, disinfection
       materials, and vaccination against seasonal human influenza; and (b) social
       mobilization and raising public awareness in the community.
   (b) Strengthening public health surveillance systems (US$75,000): This activity was
       to support strengthening the capacity of existing laboratories which included
       provision of equipment necessary for specimen collection, transportation, and
       testing. The activity was also to support upgrading of the diagnostic capacity of
       existing laboratories.
   (c) Health system response (US$2,350,000): including vaccinations, drug therapy,
       medical services.
Component 3: Public Awareness and Environmental Management (US$519,000)
   (a) Public awareness and information campaign targeting the general public,
       especially the rural population and areas of common backyard poultry breeding
       (high-risk areas). The MOH and MOA would be responsible for some of the
       activities on communications within their own components. The Project
       Implementation Unit (PIU) was to retain a communications specialist/agency to
       prepare a public awareness strategy in consultation with key UN agencies and
       NGOs.
   (b) Implementation and Environment Management Plan.

The Operating Costs were estimated at about 7% of the grant amount (US$713,100).

Project Preparation and Design

9.     The project was designed as an emergency operation, developed within the
framework of the GPAI. The project was financed by a US$10.0 million grant from the
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank and was complemented by a US$3.0 million grant
from the Avian and Human Influenza Facility implemented by UNDP. Bilateral agencies
provided parallel financing. The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) provided technical assistance and guidance.




                                            3
10.    In terms of institutional arrangements, the UNDP was selected to implement the
AHI Grant because of its presence on the ground (an office and personnel in both, the
West Bank and in Gaza) and its mobility throughout the territories. On the other hand,
the US$10.0 million project was to be implemented by the PA and coordinated by a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) reporting to the National Emergency Committee for
Avian Influenza Control (NECAIC) which had responsibility for overseeing and
coordinating institutional and implementation arrangements.

11.     The project's design requiring implementation to be carried out of the PA
ministries in Gaza and, the PIU having to be established in the Ministry of Health (MOH)
based in Gaza did not foresee the closing of borders in the Gaza Strip or the possibility of,
not only a change in Government, but also a transfer of the responsible ministries out of
Gaza. When this actually happened, the PA was unprepared for the rapid shift in location
and in responsibilities for the project.

12.     Although the project was prepared as an emergency project, it included some
longer term investment activities. Therefore, the implementation timeframe of two years
was not realistic and too ambitious considering the complexity of the design, the
technical expertise and requirements needed, the absorptive capacity in the WB&G, and
the country's inexperience (as in most countries of the world at the time of project
preparation) in handling AI containment and in building capacity in this area.

13.    The project was prepared rapidly, responding well to the emergency status of the
outbreak and in full coordination with bilateral institutions and other UN organizations.
The project was prepared under conditions with high health, political, and security risks.
The AI outbreak coincided with the time when the newly elected Hamas government was
forming in Gaza which led to an international boycott of the PA combined with a `no
contact' policy being imposed by the donor community restricted the interaction with the
PA as well as limited access for the project team to any technical experts available.

14.     In addition, and in hindsight, instead of being headed by the MOH, the NECAIC
should have been chaired by a representative of the Prime Minister's Office with the
Ministries of Health and Agriculture as equal partners and MOA taking the lead as first
responder, given that almost US$7.0 million of the US$10.0 million total grant was for
the Animal Health component. The amount of funds set aside for compensation
payments under Animal Health component (about $4.8 million) was overestimated for
the size of the poultry population in WB&G. Similarly, no clear exit strategy was built
into the project for using these funds in case no outbreak occurred by the end of the
project.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

Implementation Issues

14.     The NECAIC (Committee) is chaired by the Minister of Health and is composed
of: the Deputy Minister of Agriculture as vice-chairman and Senior Representatives from



                                             4
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Government, Palestinian Environment
Authority, and the Poultry Professional Association. The Committee was to: provide
policy guidance and coordination at the national level on project implementation, ensure
coordination and linkages across relevant agencies; guide and monitor project
implementation at the central level. However, it met irregularly and faced its own
coordination challenges while the project was struggling with start-up delays. The MOH
and the MOA were the main implementers of the technical components and had
appointed component coordinators (CCs) who were technical specialists from the
ministries to represent them and coordinate their activities within the PIU. The UN
agencies, local and international NGOs, and other public agencies and departments were
also expected to carry out specific activities as required.

15.     The signing date for the Grant was November 14, 2006. The original
effectiveness date would have been 90 days after, or February 14, 2007. Effectiveness
was delayed by a month because the following urgent activities had not yet started: (i)
finalization of the Compensation Procedures Manual, launching of the public awareness
campaign; and (iii) expediting the procurement process of urgently needed goods, tools,
and equipment for the benefit of the ministries of Health and Agriculture. In addition, the
other activities were incomplete: (i) one year work-plan outlining the implementation
timeline for the animal and human health components; (ii) preparation of an Operation
Manual for the Project; and (iii) finalization of the Environmental Management Plan for
the Project. Effectiveness conditions were met and the Project declared effective on
March 14, 2007.

16.     A World Bank Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) conducted in
January 2008 found that the project's long-term institution and capacity building
objectives were difficult to achieve, and that major effort would be required to turn the
project around. By that time, seventeen months had elapsed since the project was
approved, yet implementation had barely progressed. No PIU was established, leaving the
project in violation of the grant agreement, and the Bank's project team with no
counterpart to interact with during project implementation. The Project was rated a
Problem Project, and the CPPR team recommended that the PA and the Bank team assess
the situation and consider restructuring the project.

17.     The Mid Term Review (MTR) was planned for January 30, 2008 but was
postponed until October 2008 to allow time for the PIU to be established. The PIU was
finally established in June 2008, with only seven months remaining in the life of the
project. Withdrawal conditions were met and lifted on October 2, 2008.

18.      The delays were primarily due to the: (i) relocation of the MOH from Gaza to the
West Bank after Hamas took control of the Gaza strip in June 2007, prompting the
government to move the MOH from Gaza to the West Bank, (ii) the appointment of a
new Minister of Health based in Ramallah and a new Minister of Agriculture needing
time to become familiar with the project and with their new government responsibilities;
(iii) project management, coordination and collaboration challenges within the PA, the
NECAIC itself, as well as with other project implementation partners (UNDP, WHO,



                                            5
FAO programs); (iv) long delays in establishing the PIU once the MOH was relocated
from Gaza, and in nominating the CCs; and (v) a diminishing interest in and ownership of
the project on the side of the PA as the project implementation proceeded.

19.    Apart from an initial deposit of GBP 600,000 into the Special Account,
disbursements stagnated practically until three months before the project was closed
(March 2009).      By the time the project was cancelled only US$0.34 million was
disbursed out of the US$10.0 million allocated (3.34 percent), expenditures which were
made for seasonal flu vaccines and for staff salaries.

20.     Although the AHI grant also experienced start-up delays, implementation and
performance had improved substantially over time. By the time the MTR was conducted,
achievements under the animal health component clearly outpaced those of the human
health component. Taking into account the complexity of the design and the coordination
and collaboration challenges to successfully implementing the project's activities, the
overall progress and achievements under the AHI grant can be considered significant in
preparing the project for outbreaks of avian influenza.

Steps Taken to Resolve Implementation Issues

21.     At the MTR, the project team proposed and discussed the options for restructuring
the project. These included:

      (a) aligning its Development Objectives fully with those of the Global HPAI
          Facility to broaden the response capabilities of the PA institutions to cover
          other, locally-significant, high-risk zoonoses and major infectious animal and
          human diseases, beyond HPAI, focusing on priorities and essential project
          activities;
      (b) aligning project activities with a revised implementation timetable, and
          reallocating resources to reflect the revised program of activities;
      (c) recalculating amount to be allocated for compensation payments, and the
          reallocation of such funds, if unused by the end of the project, into a permanent
          and sustainable Animal Disease Control and Compensation Facility which was
          to be established either at the national or at regional level;
      (d) strengthening the surveillance and diagnostic capacities in district veterinary
          offices and veterinary and hospital laboratories;
      (e) strengthening partnerships between public and private veterinary services, as
          well as building transnational and inter-sectoral collaborations;
      (f) enhancing program planning and coordination for human health including
          support to building the National Plan;
      (g) strengthening the public health surveillance system;
      (h) providing isolation units to strengthen the health system's response capacity;
      (i) extending the closing date by two years to allow for completion of project
          activities within a realistic timeframe.




                                            6
22.     As the two activities were seen as coordinated efforts, the project team reported
together the UNDP grant's progress with the $10.0 million grant's progress so that the
project could be perceived as one intervention with two stages of funding. This attempt
was captured in the MTR reporting and subsequent Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).

23.     Although the Ministers of Agriculture and Health were in full support of the
proposed restructuring, over the next two months, administrative delays and bottlenecks
within the PA financial structure created unexpected difficulties in paying PIU staff
salaries from the Special Account. As a result, after two months of working without pay,
the key staff of the PIU, including the Project Coordinator, resigned one by one. By the
time the project's closing date of January 31, 2009 approached, no PIU staff remained.

24.     Following extensive discussions with the PA and internal consultation with Bank
management, the Bank informed the PA that it could not extend an unsatisfactory project
and proposed that non-performing activities be removed. This decision was made based
on the progress made in completing the animal health activities and the lack of progress
made on the human health component under the UNDP-implemented grant. Since the
animal health component had completed many of its activities and was being
implemented at a better pace, it was proposed that the human health component be closed
in order to focus project activities on moving the Animal Health and Communications
components to the next phase. Options for project coordination were also explored
including retaining the UNDP-PIU to provide backstopping arrangements to the project
in the interim, or the UNDP taking on a coordination role for the project if it was
restructured.

25.      In an effort to bring the Project back on track, the Bank agreed to an interim
extension of the closing date from January 31, 2009 to March 31, 2009, following a
request from the PA, to allow the task team time to discuss details and reach agreement
with the PA on project restructuring details. During this period, the PA was to agree on
institutional arrangements, reestablish a PIU, and propose an action plan for completing
Project activities that included revised budget proposals, revised procurement plan, and
performance indicators for Bank's review and comments.

26.     The aftermath of the December 2008-January 2009 escalation of conflict in Gaza
with Israel may have influenced the Government's reaction to the Bank's proposals, with
efforts and priorities shifting towards the emergency needs for the reconstruction of Gaza.
By March 31, 2009, when the Bank received no indication of agreement between the
different ministries' proposals, the closing date was allowed to lapse and the project
closed on the specified date. The undisbursed funds in the amount of US$9.66 million
were cancelled and an official letter from the Bank was sent to the PA Prime
Minster/Minister of Finance on August 7, 2009.

27.     Several factors outside the Bank's control contributed to the cancellation of the
project: (i) unusually challenging operating environment and changing political situation
which caused frequent fragmentation of government and blockades in the decision-
making process; (ii) changes in the political leadership in the aftermath of the national



                                            7
elections in January 2006; (iii) lack of clear ownership for the project among government
authorities, partially due to the fact that the project was perceived as serving the interests
and benefitting other countries in the region rather than the Palestinian people; (iv)
restriction on mobility of goods and persons; (v) low capacity within the PA for
implementing the project; (vi) difficulty in building needed political consensus in a
complex institutional and political setting; and (v) shifting government priorities during
the life of the project, especially towards the end when emergency reconstruction of Gaza
became an international concern.

Project Successes and Achievements

28.    Despite the challenges mentioned above, the project did, however, achieve the
following:

       the compensation fund was established and compensation manual finalized and
       endorsed;
       all project manuals prepared under the AHI grant were endorsed by the Minister
       of Heath as head of the NECAIC; these include the project operational manual,
       the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), the compensation funds manual,
       culling and vaccination guidelines, standard operating procedures;
       most activities under the animal health, and subsequently, human health
       components of the AHI grant were completed, laying the foundation for
       preparedness for AI outbreaks;
       component coordinators were nominated by the respective ministries, and the key
       staff for the PIU hired, albeit for only a short time; and
       training and workshop participation such as the sixth international conference on
       Avian Influenza in 2008 (Sharm-El-Sheikh) to exchange lessons and
       dissemination of lessons.

Implications of Project Closure and Cancellation

29.    Clearly, the area which suffered because of cancellation was the public awareness
and communications component. Although some activities along these lines were
completed under the UNDP-implemented grant, the messages on the safety of poultry
consumption in WB&G needed to be continued and disseminated by the government and
the poultry industry with the assistance, financing and facilitation of a Committee set up
by the Palestine Poultry syndicate. The project was not able to support further this area.

30.     Open trade between countries in the region and the free movement of people into
WB&G increases the risk of AI (and other disease) transmission. In the case of Egypt,
tunnels to Gaza and proximity of infections increases the risk of transmission from an
endemic country. Although no outbreaks of AI has occurred in the West Bank and Gaza
nor in neighbouring Jordan since 2006, Egypt notified the World Organization for animal
health (OIE) in 2008 that they consider the country's situation to be endemic (i.e.,
continuous outbreaks occurring which cannot be eradicated in the near future). The risk
is that the threat still exists that the virus can be reintroduced from Egypt. Therefore,


                                              8
even though the project is closed, building capacity for early detection is crucial,
particularly in the veterinary services.

31.     The central veterinary laboratory, hazardously located in the center of Ramallah,
was proposed for relocation and construction under this project but due to the closure and
cancellation of the project, this could not be carried out. Attempts were made to shift the
funding for its relocation and construction to the UNDP-implemented grant, but due to
time and resources constraints, this effort was also abandoned. Improvements were
limited to minor repairs and equipping as much as possible the laboratories to build
diagnostic capacity. With the complete closure of Gaza, the situation remains that the
central veterinary laboratory, in Gaza could not be upgraded.

32.    The closure of the project involved reputational risk for the recipients, the World
Bank and the donors, should the disease spread. However, since the project was funded
through two grants, the ongoing AHI grant was able to lay the foundation for
preparedness and to continue some of the more urgent and important investment and
capacity building activities which were to be funded under the project.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance

(a) Quality at Entry (i.e. performance through lending phase):
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

33.      Identification/Preparation: Based on the World Bank Operational Procedure OP
8.0 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies), the identification process was correctly
focused on the critical needs of the country and the active outbreak of avian influenza in
Gaza, in 2006. However, the project was prepared under difficult circumstances during
the donor-wide boycott of the PA leaving a limited team of PA technical civil servants to
interact in project preparation. The Quality at Entry Review (in May 2006) noted that
implementation arrangements were rightly kept flexible to respond to the changing
realities on the ground, i.e., (i) the PIU to be housed within the UNDP to ensure smooth
implementation of project activities in the event that implementation by the PA was not
possible - in reality however, this did not materialize; (ii) to ensure that free flow of funds
reach the beneficiaries, different possibilities were considered including opening two
separate bank accounts to transfer funds from WB&G or to establish one account for both
regions; and (iii) the project team discussed and agreed that procurement process be kept
flexible following simplest allowable procedures, taking into consideration the
emergency nature of the project and the emerging political and security context. A
provision has been made by the team to ensure further strengthening of the PIU
procurement capacity through "fiduciary backstopping" to be provided by the PIU of the
AHI grant.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including fiduciary and safeguard policies):

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                              9
34.     Initially the task team was stationed in the field (in WB&G) and therefore had the
opportunity for daily interactions with all relevant stakeholders. Management of the
project was later transferred to Washington (in 2007) where the new team also acted
proactively in trying to find possible solutions to moving the project forward. The
supervision teams carried out regularly two missions per year, with the appropriate skill
mix including animal health specialist, social safeguards specialist, agriculture economist,
environmental specialist, procurement and financial management specialists,
disbursements analyst, as well as the Regional Coordinator for AHI projects. However,
the animal health and human health specialists were brought in too late (at MTR) to
provide technical guidance to the clients. The project team nevertheless alerted
management of the problems and risks related to project execution and proposed
remedies in a timely manner. The team also repeatedly wrote letters to the PA reminding
them of serious consequences of implementation delays.

35.     Although performance of the project was clearly unsatisfactory, the ISRs were
somewhat unrealistically rated as `Moderately Unsatisfactory' rather than
`Unsatisfactory' (except in June 2008 when it was reflected as Unsatisfactory). The
available documentation points to the fact that the project team made every effort,
including a series of visits, discussions with the line ministries, following up on the
recommendations of CPPR and of MTR, to ensure greater understanding and ownership
by the government to make up for the loss of momentum. The team was also responsive
to the country's emerging needs and agreed on aligning existing development objectives
with those of the Global HPAI Facility.

36.     The Moderately Unsatisfactory rating is due to the fact that the project team was,
to some extent, too optimistic in assuming PA's capacity to turn around the project
especially when there was very limited progress visible on the ground. The team also
relied too much on the new Minister of Health's verbal assurances of his continued
commitment and his appeals of turning around the project. In reality the team was not
able to gain enough political support for the much needed project restructuring. The
project could therefore, have been closed earlier.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

37.     Significant shortcomings became obvious in the government's performance soon
after the project was approved by the Board on September 7th, 2006. It was not until just
a few months before the closing of the project when finally, for example, the
compensation fund was set up, compensation manual adopted; and environmental
management plan endorsed by the PA. Failure to advance further on various
implementation issues showed limited government ownership and commitment to the
project except for the Animal Health Component. Lack of ownership was apparent when
the government was unable to decisively reach an acceptable consensus on where the PIU
would be located. This led to the derailment of the whole restructuring process.
Additionally, it was clear that NECAIC which had a major challenge to build consensus



                                            10
between the two line ministries (MOH and MOA) had limited mandate to successfully
resolve any stalemate that had occurred on project management/implementation issues.
Based on the above, the performance of the Borrower is rated as Unsatisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned

      The avian influenza portfolio globally has been slow to implement due to its
      complexity of design and technical requirements. Global experience to date
      indicates that implementing such projects takes an average of five years. In
      fragile states the timeframe for successfully implementing such projects may
      require an even longer periods for successful implementation.

      Standard Bank implementation arrangements may not be the most suitable vehicle
      to apply in a volatile political environment and the use other channels such as the
      UN system proved to be much more effective (as for the emergency preparation
      activities grant).

      More time should be invested during Project preparation in building ownership,
      and the base for close collaboration and coordination between ministries and with
      the UNDP (responsible for emergency preparation activities). This would ensure
      proper ownership of the project by the PA during preparation. Counterbalance
      the cost of implementing a project in a volatile and fragile environment with
      implementation arrangements which are responsive and tailored to the country's
      particular environment, capacities, sensitivities and constraints. It is difficult to
      make a project work successfully in a volatile political environment, with limited
      or changing ownership by the government or shift in national priorities.

      The institutional arrangements could have been established differently to ensure
      ownership and collaboration, i.e., project implementation is the responsibility of
      each ministry - Ministry of Agriculture for Animal Health component, and
      Ministry of Health for the Human Health component; the project coordinator
      would be a mutually agreed selection from the ministries and may also be
      seconded from one of the ministries.

      All conditions should be met before Board presentation. This is particularly
      challenging for emergency grants due to time pressure created by the avian
      influenza outbreak in Gaza. Linking conditionalities to project effectiveness and
      to disbursements did not contribute to moving the project forward.

      Given the project's performance, the decision for project cancellation or
      restructuring should have been made earlier when it was evident that the PA
      showed a lack of interest and ownership in the project.




                                           11
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Supervision
Lina Abdallah                       Operations Officer        MNSUR     Operations
Husam Abudagga                 Senior Country Officer, TTL    AFMLS Operations
                                                                          Social
Gregorio Bettiza                       E T Consultant         MNSSD
                                                                      Developpment
                                                                      Environmental
Stefanie U.S. Brackmann                  Consultant           AFTEN
                                                                        Safeguards
Maya El-Azzazi                       Program Assistant        MNSSD Project Assistance
                                                                          Animal
Stephane Forman                     Livestock Specialist      AFTAR
                                                                    Health/Veterinarian
Jean-Jacques Frere               Sr Public Health Specialist  MNSHH   Public Health
Nedim Jaganjac                      Sr Health Specialist      ECSH1   Public Health
Richard James                            Consultant           ECSSD     Operations
Ahmed Merzouk                  Senior Procurement Specialist MNAPR     Procurement
Suhair J.D. Musa              Financial Management Specialist MNAFM Financial Mgmt.
Adel Fahed J. Odeh                   Operations Analyst       MNC04   Disbursements
Suha Rabah                           Program Assistant        MNC04 Project Assistance
Gotz A. Schreiber                        Consultant           ECSSD     Operations
Colin S. Scott                         Lead Specialist        MNSSD Social Safeguards
Lucie H.G. Tran                   Operations Officer, TTL     MNSSD     Operations
                                                                      Regional AHI
Jean-Philippe Tre              Senior Agriculture Economist AFTAR
                                                                       Coordination

Note on Cancelled Operation
Lucie Tran                         Operations Officer        MNSSD          TTL
Richard James                     Operations Consultant      MNSSD     Primary Author




                                          12
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                          15                        58.28
  FY07                                          33                        88.96
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                              Total:            48                       147.24
Supervision/NCO
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                           7                        24.53
  FY08                                          41                       148.88
  FY09                                          18                         0.00
                              Total:            66                       173.41




                                           13
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents


   1.   Project Technical Annex, August 15, 2006 (Report No. T7680­WBZ)
   2.   Back to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires
   3.   Archived Implementation Status Reports ­ December 28, 2006 through March 10, 2009
   4.   Mid Term Review, October 13-31, 2008
   5.   Country Portfolio Performance Reviews - 2007 and 2008




                                            14
15
