Document of                     FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2927-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL (COFINA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR
A SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
February 27, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Balboa (B/. 1)
US$1 = B/. 1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins;
the U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
BLADEX    -  Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones
(Latin American Export Bank)
BNP       -  Banco Nacional de Panama
(National Bank of Panama)
COBAPA    -  Corporacion Bananera del Pacifico
(Banana Corporation of the Pacific)
COFINA    -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -  Gross National Product
IDAAN     -  Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
(National Water and Sewerage Institute)
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IRHE      -  Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion
(Institute of Hydraulic Resources and Electrification)
LIBOR     -  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MICI      - Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias
(Ministry of Commerce and Industry)
MIPPE     - Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development



FO OMFICIAL U8I ONLY
PANAMA
SECOND DEmVLOPMENT BANING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
porrover:            Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA)
pu r ntor:          Republic of Panama
Amnt: sUS$20 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace,
with interest at 9.6 percent per annum. The exchange
risk against the US dollar would be borne by the Government.
Relendinf  Terms:    COFINA would relend the proceeds of the proposed loan
on terms of up to 15 years from the date of the loan
agreement with the Bank, including a grace period of up to
3 years. Subloans would carry a minimum initial interest
rate of 13 percent, to be reviewed every 6 months.
Prolect
Description:      The proposed project would support the efforts of the
Government and of COFINA's maaagement to strengthen COFINA
and increase its efficiency; assist Panama's industrial
development by financing sound investment projects;
support COFINA's promotional efforts in the financial and
industrial sectors by financing studies and consultant
services; and serve as a vehicle for the future dialogue
with the Government on industrial policy issues. The
proceeds of the loan would be used to finance the estimated
foreign exchange component of COFINA's subloans and equity
investments for the acquisition of fixed assets and
permanent working capital by productive private and public
sector enterprises in the manufacturing and related
subsectors such as tourism. The loan would also finance
up to US$200,000 for technical assistance and staff
training to strengthen COFINA's operational capability and
up to US$200,000 for studies and consultant services for
COFINA's promotional activities.
Risks:              The primary risk associated with the proposed loan concerns
COFINA's ability to deal with its expanded operations.
During the past two years, COFINA did not develop as
expected at the time of appraisal of the first Development
Banktag Project, due largely to its former management's
involvement in the running of the government-owned airline.
COPINA's present management has already undertaken a
number of institutional improvements and more are planned.
These changes, along with the training program associated
with the project, should lead to a substantial improvement
in operational efficiency.
Th.mtA ges     ,         T -,  mE iw be wed by recipionts only in the ponmace of I
their ofl duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Projected Financial
Calendar Year
Results:                                                1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
-----------US$ Million -------…
Income                               5.2    5.2    7.4    9.6   12.1
Expenses, including provisions    4.5    4.9    6.1    7.4    9.1
Net profit                           0.7    0.3    1.3    2.2    3.0
Projected Financial
Position:
Total assets                         49.3   62.4   76.3   90.8  108.1
Financed by:
Debt                               31.6   41.7   51.2   60.1   70.8
Capital and reserves               17.7   20.7   25.1   30.7   37.3
Debt/Equity ratio (including
contingent liabilities)          4.0:1  4.3:1  4.3:1  4.0:1  3.8:1
Free Limit:          $500,000 for individual subloans
Debt Covenant:       Maximum debt/equity ratio of 5:1.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 IBRD Fiscal Year
1982    1983    1984    1985
--------(US$ Million)-------
Annual                3.5     8.5      6.0      2.0
Cumulative           3.5    12.0    18.0    20.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3210-PAN.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL (COFINA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Corporacion Financiera Nacional with the guarantee of the Republic
of Panama for the equivalent of US$20 million to help finance a Second
Development Banking Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
a three-year grace period, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum. COFINA
would relend the proceeds of the proposed loan on terms of up to 15 years
from the date of the loan agreement with the Bank, including a grace period of
up to three years. Subloans would carry an initial interest rate of at least
13 percent per annum, to be reviewed every six months. The foreign exchange
risk of the loan against the US dollar would be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Panama's Development in the 1980's:  A Special
Economic Report" (2306-PAN) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 31, 1979. A Bank economic mission visited Panama in September 1980 and
its report is being prepared. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Although Panama continues to be adversely affected by sharp
increases in petroleum prices, it has managed to reverse the decline in
per capita GDP experienced during 1974-77. GDP grew by 4.9 percent in
1979 and by an estimated 5.3 percent in 1980, double the rate of population
growth. Despite recent improvements, GDP growth rates are still well below
the annual rate of 7 percent achieved between 1955 and 1973.
4.        The Government's three main concerns since 1968 have been to
eliminate rural poverty, to increase national control over the economy,
including the Panama Canal, and to create new sources of economic growth and
exports. Social programs in health arnd education were extended to most areas,
and an agrarian reform program was initiated. Major investments were under-
taken in transport, tourism, international commercial infrastructure, water
and sewerage, and power, mostly to provide support for expected private activ-
ities. Power and most telecommunications facilities were nationalized. New
State enterprises were created for export crops such as sugar, citrus, and
bananas; and a State-owned cement plant was built. Self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs such as rice, corn, and beans was also accorded high priority.
5.        The Government's social programs have had considerable success in
enhancing the quality of life in Panama, especially as reflected in demographic,
health and educational indicators. Infant mortality declined by 20 percent
1/   Reprinted from Report No. P-2934-PAN.



-2-
between 1968 and 1976, while fertility rates fell from 131.3 per thousand in
1971 to 114 per thousand in 1975. Access to potable water for the rural
population increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976. The
proportion of the population enrolled in schools of all types increased from
less than one-quarter to over one-third between 1968 and 1978. Despite these
achievements, estimates indicate that some 21 percent of the urban and about
30 percent of the rural population continue to live in severe poverty with
access to employment being inadequate to ensure satisfactory nutritional
intake and decent housing.
6.        The Government's economic programs have had mixed results.  Projects
like the Colon Free Zone and hydro-electric installations have been quite
successful, in the first case by increasing earnings from export of services,
and in the second by reducing the burden of rising petroleum costs. Others
involving direct production by the public sector or affecting private sector
decisions have been less successful. Agricultural production programs have
led to self-sufficiency in rice and increased the output of milk, but have had
less impact on the output of beef, and feed grains. State production of sugar
has increased exportable output but the enterprise has operated unprofitably
until the recent price rise. Similarly, State enterprises in cement and
tourism have been unprofitable, and together with sugar operations their
deficits have been a burden on the fisc. The entry of the public sector into
production activities competing with private enterprise, the resort to price
controls to insulate consumers from inflationary pressures, and uncertainties
relating to Government labor policies adversely affected the climate for
private investment. Recent improvements in the dialogue between Government
and the private sector, modifications in the original labor policies, and
some relaxation in price restraints appear to have increased private sector
confidence.
7.        The high level of outlays for economic and social infrastructure,
coupled with the substantial losses of State enterprises, resulted in significant
increases in the public external debt, despite periodic efforts to strengthen
the public finances. The public sector deficit increased from 4.4 percent of
GDP in 1970 to over 15 percent of GDP in 1978. In 1979, the deficit fell to
11.1 percent of GDP, largely as a result of a reduction in investment. In
spite of the improvement, the deficit was slightly above that expected by the
Government and the ceiling established in an IMF Standby Agreement. Increased
revenues were offset by higher interest and oil costs, thereby continuing the
virtual absence of public sector savings during recent years. Deficits of
State enterprises in sugar, cement and tourism continued to weigh heavily in
public sector finances.
8.        At the end of 1979, Panama's disbursed external public debt was
US$2.1 billion or just over 82 percent of GDP. Loans from commercial financial
institutions and suppliers' credits accounted for 58 percent of external debt,
bond holding sources for 17 percent, and the remainder equally divided between
multilateral and bilateral sources. During 1979 the disbursed public external
debt rose by US$200 million. Public external debt service in relation to GDP
has been estimated at 13 percent in 1979 compared to seven percent in 1977;
and in relation to public revenues has been estimated at 37 percent in 1979
compared to 27 percent in 1977. These reflect both the rapid growth in the
debt and the impact of recent increases in the interest cost of debt held by
commercial sources at floating rates tied to LIBOR.



- 3 -
9.        Early in 1980, the Government of Panama took a series of actions in
an effort to reduce the public sector deficit toward a goal of 8 percent of
GDP in 1980 and six percent of GDP in 1981. These measures included increases
in taxes on gasoline and cigarettes and in maritime and corporate registration
fees, improvements in income tax administration, elimination of several income
tax exonerations and reductions in current and capital transfers to decentral-
ized agencies and public enterprises. The reduction of these transfers has
already resulted in increases in the prices of 19 basic items including milk,
bread, and tomatoes, mostly distributed through the Agricultural Marketing
Institute and rental rates charged by the State Machinery Pool. Some profit-
able agencies, e.g., the telecommunications company and the Colon Free Zone,
were required to increase their transfers to Central Government. The
emergency employment program--Plan de Urgencia--originally introduced in
November 1977 with 1,059 workers but which rose to 17,146 by the end of
February 1980, was discontinued on the latter date. In conjunction with
favorable sugar prices which have reduced the deficit of the state sugar
company, a major increase in canal revenues, and very buoyant tax revenues,
these measures more than achieved the targeted reduction in the public
sector deficit for 1980, despite rising salary, interest, and energy costs.
The public sector deficit at December 31, 1980, estimated at US$206 million,
was well within the ceiling of US$260 million agreed with the International
Monetary Fund. Panama has reached agreement with the Fund on a ceiling of
US$215 million for December 1981. Further reduction in the public sector
deficit beyond 1981 will depend on specific actions to reduce the operating
deficits of state enterprises and on adherence to a public investment program
of a size consistent with realistic expectations regarding public sector
savings.
10.       The strategy for recovery and growth of the economy now requires that
private capital and entrepreneurs provide the buoyancy in economic activity
that the public sector can no longer pravide. New opportunities have indeed
been created for the private sector. The high level of public investment over
the years has provided an expanded physical infrastructure and a relatively
skilled labor force. Investments in hydropower are reducing Panama's dependence
on increasingly expensive imported petroleum. Tax incentives and financing
facilities for industry are readily available. In agriculture, recent increases
in support prices and provision of credit facilities are designed to realize
the potential for increased production and exports of beef, fruit, cocoa, and
coffee, and for replacing imports of vegetable oils and dairy products.
11.       The prospects for growth also depend on the use of land and facili-
ties reverting to Panama and on the higher earnings to be received by Panama
under the new Canal Treaty. Implementation of the treaty began on October 1,
1979 and will be completed on December 31, 1999, when the Canal and all
ancillary facilities wi'l revert to Panama. Already the ports of Balboa and
Cristobal, two abandoned airfields, much valuable land, and most service
outlets of the former Panama Canal Company's supply division have reverted to
Panama. The reverting land makes even more feasible a spatial orientation
in development strategy which emphasizes the metropolitan area, bounding



-4-
the Canal and traversing the isthmus from the Atlantic to the Pacific, as the
best site for activities to take advantage of Panama's excellent geographic
location. The Government is actively planning the conservation and further
development of infrastructure in this area for expanded private sector activi-
ties which would generate employment, revenues and rents adequate to pay for
these public investments.
12.       Although the longer-term outlook for the Panamanian economy seems
favorable, given its geographic advantages, a low population/land ratio, and
large hydroelectric potential, the medium-term outlook will depend on the
public policy approach to certain critical domestic issues and on the perfor-
mance of the international economy. The critical domestic issues include rising
urban unemployment, the growth of the public external debt, the relative roles
of the public and private sectors, and the climate for private investment--
especially as regards prices and wages policies. The Government is now keenly
aware of these issues. It has developed and is continuing a dialogue with
businessmen, and has recognized the need for a more flexible approach to price
control and the need to reduce its direct involvement in activities which not
only compete with the private sector, but often operate at a loss. Recently
it has acted decisively to reduce the public sector deficit and slow the
growth of the public external debt. In addition, it is pursuing a program to
attract internationally-integrated (maguila) industries by simplifying proce-
dures for establishing plants and granting incentives and by training labor in
response to the specific manpower requirements of incoming firms. The effect
of these actions will be reinforced should the recent resurgence in growth
continue. The Bank will be monitoring the impact of recent measures and is
continuing a dialogue with the Government as it seeks to reduce the losses of
public enterprises, while encouraging higher growth and greater employment.
On the basis of the fiscal measures recently taken by the Government, its open
and frank dialogue with the Bank, and the favorable longer-term outlook, we
consider Panama creditworthy for Bank lending, provided it continues to abide
by the targets it has set itself in the fiscal adjustment program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
13.       The Bank has to date made twenty loans to Panama totalling US$313.2
million (net of cancellations). Of these, ten loans for US$137.4 million,
are fully disbursed (two for roads totalling US$13 million; one for an airport
project for US$20 million; three for agriculture totalling US$4.4 million,
three for power for US$76 million and one for ports for US$24 million. Ongoing
operations include two projects for livestock credit; one for fisheries; one
for development of tropical trees, one in development banking; two in the
power sector (for generation, transmission and distribution); a project to
help develop the water supply and sewerage sector; one for highway maintenance,
and the most recent Bank operation, a loan for the Colon Urban Development
Project, approved by the Executive Directors in June 1980. Execution of
Bank-financed projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
1/ Reprinted, in substance, from Report No. P-2934-PAN.



-5-
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acauire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed. The second
was a commitment approved by the Executive Directors in December 1977 to lend
US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A.,
the first glass container factory in Panama. The project has been completed
and operations were recently initiated. The third was a commitment to acquire
US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones (BLADEX),
a regional export bank proposed and promoted by the Government of Panama.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further development of
Panama's service industries and the diversification of production and exports.
Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which it can make a special
contribution in terms of (i) developing policies and institutions, .(ii) remov-
ing infrastructure bottlenecks, and (iii) better utilizing the country's
natural resources, particularly its geographic location. The project now
under consideration would support the Government's efforts to promote private
investment in the productive sectors and would contribute to expanding the
role of Panama's financial market in the development process. Other projects
under active consideration for Bank lending are a highway maintenance and
rehabilitation project; a second water supply project, which would support the
rehabilitation of the water and sewerage systems in downtown Colon and in
Panama City; a project which would assist in the rehabilitation of the Canal
ports of Cristobal and Balboa as well as a loan for the second stage of the
Fortuna Hydroelectric Project. Documents relating to a proposed loan for an
Energy Planning and Petroleum Exploration and Promotion Project have been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
16.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent substantial amounts for agricul-
ture and for social services (including family planning in the case of USAID).
Past lending patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social
services, because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for
those sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction,
industry and telecommunications, sectors in which it is likely that it will
continue lending. The IDB also participated with the Bank in the financing of
the Fortuna Hydroelectric Project and may finance a rural electrification
program. USAID expects to concentrate its efforts on manpower training
(including credit and training for very small enterprises) and projects
oriented, toward environmental protection. USAID is also lending for research
on alternative sources of energy.
17.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 5.6 percent at the end of 1979 and the Bank's share
of public external debt service is projected to be 3.6 percent at the end of
1979. These percentages are expected to increase slightly in the 1980's.



- 6 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
The Manufacturing Sector
18.       Panama's geogrsphic location and spatial configuration have been
the country's main natural assets. As a result, the economy is largely
oriented towards the provision of services, while the manufacturing sector
accounts for only about 13 percent of GDP. In 1977, the sector employed
47,000 people or 10 percent of the labor force. The manufacturing sector
started developing in the 1950's.  In the sixties, it grew rapidly at the rate
of about 10 percent per annum, largely as a result of rapid import substitution.
Growth rates fell in the seventies, and the sector suffered a pronounced slump
in the 1974-78 period.  This slump was largely due to a drop in local demand,
caused by increasing oil prices, the international recession, the collapse in
1973  of a domestic urban housing boom, and to the fact that opportunities for
easy import substitution had been largely exhausted. At the same time, the
investment climate was affected negatively by the political uncertainties
surrounding the canal negotiations, the government's labor policies, and
widespread price cortrols.
19.       Recent modifications in labor and price policies, together with the
signing of the Canal Treaty in 1978, have resulted in a considerable improvement
in the private investment climate. Manufacturing has also been stimulated by
the resurgence of construction activities. As a result, in 1979, manufacturing
value added increased by 5.5-percent in real terms, higher than the overall
growth of the economy. The sector's expansion continued in 1980 and the
prospects are good for continued growth over the next few years. Manufacturing
exports, which had been negligible throughout the sixties and much of the
seventies, experienced rapid growth in the late seventies, rising from US$7
million in 1978 to US$14 million in the first eight months of 1980, a trend
which is expected to continue.
20.       Annual investment in manufacturing declined from US$50 million in
1973 to a low of US$31 million in 1977, the last year of Canal Treaty negotia-
tions. Investment started to pick up in 1978 reaching US$37 million in 1979
and an estimated US$49 million in 1980. It is projected to average about
US$55 million yearly in 1981-83.
21.       The manufacturing sector in Panama is engaged primarily in the
production of consumer goods, which in 1979 accounted for 60 percent of total
manufacturing value added (food and beverages accounted for 44 percent of the
total). Intermediate goods such as chemicals, paper, metal goods and petroleum
products accounted for 34 percent of value added in 1979. As in most indus-
trializing countries, there is some concentration of manufacturing production.
In 1976, 141 companies with 50 or more workers of a total of 637 firms in
manufacturing, accounted for 69 percent of total sales and 64 percent of
employment. Manufacturing is located mostly in the Panama City area, by far
the largest local market. Government efforts to encourage decentralization
through fiscal incentives have not been successful, but it is likely that the
current expansion of the Free Zone will cause an increase in manufacturing
activities in Colon.



- 7 -
22.       In the longer term, Panama's main advantages for industrial expansion
lie in its geographical location, the canal, the highly developed infrastruc-
ture for international commerce, including a large banking sector, and a
well-educated labor force. For Panama to make full use of these advantages
would require an incentive structure which emphasizes primarily exports and
backward integration of the existing industries. This would involve a reorienta-
tion of the present incentive system, described below.
The Policy Framework
23.       Fiscal Incentives and Protection.  Since the post-war period,
Panama has adopted several laws designed to promote investments in manufac-
turing. Fiscal incentives include (a) exoneration of import duties on
machinery, raw materials and other inputs, (b) special depreciation allowances,
and (c) partial income tax exemptions. Also, exports are awarded tax credit
certificates equivalent to 20 percent of the value of the export. Firms
qualifying for incentives may also receive special tariff protection. In the
case of some products, the Government has imposed quota restrictions allowing
imports only when the domestic market cannot be supplied in a satisfactory
manner by local manufacturers. About 260 items are now subject to such
quotas. Industries producing totally for exports may receive a 100 percent
exemption from income tax on their export earnings, exemptions on other taxes,
as well as the benefits listed in (a) above.
24.       To obtain the benefits, industrialists must enter into a contract
with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (M1CI), under which the Ministry
awards the incentives in exchange for an undertaking to implement an agreed
investment project. An investor has to present detailed feasibility studies
in order to get the incentives and the process for awarding the incentives can
be slow.
25.       The most important incentives are quotas and tariffs which would seem
to favor investments for import substitution projects. The exoneration from
import duties on intermediate goods tends to discourage backward integration
of industries, while tax incentives to the reinvestment of profits in fixed
assets, encourages the application of capital intensive-production techniques.
Also, the complexity of the incentive system appears to discriminate against
the smaller investor who can ill-afford the expenses involved in applying for
them. However, although some inefficient industries have been established
under the umbrella of the incentive system, general observation would indicate
that its protective effect has been moderate when compared to other Latin
American countries. The Government is aware of the shortcomings of the
incentive structure. It has decided in principle to eliminate quantitative
restrictions in favor of straight tariff protection and as a first step is
rejecting applications for new quotas.
26.       Labor Legislation.  Labor legislation is based on a Labor Code
approved in 1972. The Labor Code contained provisions regarding the termination
of workers which were highly restrictive and which contributed to the uncertain
investment climate that prevailed in the mid-seventies. In 1976, many of the
more restrictive provisions of the Labor Code were suspended, and in 1980, the
Government formed a commission composed of representatives of labor, management
and the Government with a view to amending labor legislation in a manner accept-
able to all parties. Although the commission has not yet come to any definite



conclusions, it has contributed to the prevailing industrial peace in the
country. Manufacturing tends to pay wages well above the legal minimum
wage, which together with the fringe benefits required by the labor law,
makes Panamanian labor relatively expensive. The Government has initiated a
training program designed to meet the needs of specific enterprises which
effectively reduces the cost of labor by increasing its productivity and by
subsidizing its improvement.
27.       Price Controls.  Panama's price control legislation is aimed at
maintaining the supply and orderly distribution of basic goods. At present,
about 75 items, of which about 50 are food products, are regulated. The
administration of price controls is somewhat rigid, and the prices for some
articles (e.g., bread, tomato paste, aspirin, sugar) remained unchanged for
several years during the seventies, which led to reduced profit margins in the
affected industries. In 1980, many industries were granted price increases,
which has helped to restore their profitability.
28.       With a view to correcting anomalies in the policy framework, the
Government plans to undertake an industrial sector study which would be
financed by the IDB and which would include a description and analysis of
sector behavior and policies affecting it, as well as recommendations for
changes in present policies. The study is expected to be started no later
than July 15, 1981, and to be completed by the end of 1982. The Government
would exchange views with the Bank on the final terms of reference for the
study (we have reviewed the draft terms of reference and found them adequate),
as well as on the terms of reference and qualifications of the consultants to
be contracted, and would send to the Bank for review and comments the conclu-
sions of the study (Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement).
The Financial Sector
29.       Panama's monetary system is unique in Latin America.  The country
uses the United States dollar as its unit of exchange. The official monetary
unit, the Balboa, exists only for accounting purposes and in coinage. There
is no central bank. A National Banking Commission supervises the banking
system, which is oriented predominantly towards international business. As a
result of liberal banking legislation passed in 1970, and Panama's advantageous
geographical location, the banking sector has been growing rapidly over the
past ten years. As of September 1980, there were 105 banks in Panama, and
five more were expected to set up office shortly. The total assets of the
banking system have been increasing rapidly over the past few years, from
US$10.3 billion in December 1975 to US$35.5 billion in June 1980.   As of the
latter date, foreign loans represented 89 percent of the total loan portfolio.
In spite of the large number of banks operating in Panama, most of the domestic
lending is handled by only six banks, including the Government-owned Banco
Nacional de Panama (BNP).
30.       The surplus of offshore funds has been a significant source of
financing for domestic lending. Thus, as of December 31, 1977, local loans
exceeded local deposits by US$571 million. However, this difference has been
reduced considerably due to a relatively slow growth in outstanding domestic
loans since 1977, caused largely by a decline in public sector borrowings.
Loans to the commercial and industrial sectors have been increasing rapidly



- 9 -
since 1977, reflecting the resurgence of economic activity. Loans outstanding
to the industrial sector have increased from US$139 million in 1979 to US$215
million as of June 1980. Although their portfolio of industrial loans has
increased sharply, commercial banks in Panama generally make short-term loans
for working capital, and are normally reluctant to provide longer term financing
for fixed assets. As a result, industrial term lending is basically undertaken
by BNP's industrial lending department which has IDB financing, and by COFINA.
BNP's industrial lending tends to concentrate on existing companies, whereas a
substantial portion of COFINA's lending is for new companies and for projects
that require substantial assistance in project preparation. The small-scale
industrial sector receives financing from the commercial banking system
(including BNP, which is the most important commercial source) and MICI; the
latter is supported by a US$1 million subloan made by COFINA under Loan
1641-PAN.
31.       With the exception of savings accounts, the interest rate structure
in Panama for both deposits and loans is open and based on the LIBOR rate.
However, BNP and COFINA prefer to charge fixed interest rates on their term
loans since few businesses would accept fluctuating rates on term loans in
today's volatile market. The resulting interest rate structure is appropriate
for Panama, except that an interest rate ceiling of 4.5 percent on local
savings accounts has led to a reduction in savings deposits. The share of
time deposits (which pay market rates) in total deposits has been increasing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Panama - Second Development
Banking Project (No. 3210-PAN) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Basic data are given at the beginning of this report. The project
was appraised in September/October 1980 and negotiations were held in Washington
from February 3 to 6,1981 . The Borrower and Guarantor were represented by a
delegation led by Messrs. Rafael Mezquita, Deputy General Manager of COFINA
and Orlando Caicedo, Chief of Investment Programming and Loan Negotiations of
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy.
Project Objectives and Description
33.       The main objectives of the project are to (a) support the efforts of
the Government and of COFINA's management to strengthen COFINA and increase
its efficiency; (b) assist Panama's industrial development by financing sound
investment projects; (c) support COFINA's promotional efforts in the financial
and industrial sector by financing studies and consultant services; (d) serve
as a vehicle for the future dialogue with the Government on industrial policy
issues.
34.       The proposed Bank loan to COFINA would be used to finance the
estimated foreign exchange component of COFINA's subloans and equity invest-
ments for the acquisition of fixed assets and permanent working capital by



- 10 -
productive private and public, enterprises in the manufacturing and related
subsectors such as tourism. The loan would also finance up to US$200,000 for
technical assistance and staff training to strengthen COFINA's operational
capability, and up to US$200,000 for studies and consultant services to
develop COFINA's promotional activities.
COFINA
35.       General.  COFINA was established in December 1975 as an autonomous
Government-owned development finance company to promote and finance productive
industrial enterprises in accordance with Government development objectives,
and to encourage increased commercial bank financing of industry through
cofinancing. The first Bank loan to COFINA, Loan 1641-PAN, for US$15 million,
was approved in December 1978 and became effective in September 1979. The
delay in effectiveness was due to the fact that COFINA had undertaken engage-
ments in excess of its exposure limit, a problem which can be attributed to
the inexperience of the company. Prior to effectiveness of the loan, the
Government extended general guarantees for these engagements. Once effective,
Loan 1641-PAN has been utilized rapidly, and as of February 6, 1981, there was
an uncommitted balance for COFINA subprojects of only US$1.5 million, which will
be authorized over the next few months, well in advance of the final date of
commitment of December 31, 1981. The sector breakdown of the operation is
given in paragraph 41 below. Commitments of the US$1 million line of credit
for small-scale industry included in the project to be financed through MICI
are behind schedule largely because of delays in signing the subsidiary
agreement between COFINA and MICI. Total disbursements of Loan 1641-PAN as
of February 6, 1981 were US$7.7 million.
36.       After a promising start, COFINA's development was arrested due to a
management change in 1978 which led to the departure of several qualified senior
staff and to the concentration of management's efforts in the affairs of Air
Panama, which COFINA took over at the Government's insistence after the latter
purchased the airline in 1978 (see below). The present General Manager, a
businessman with experience in the financial sector in Panama, was appointed
to COFINA in April 1980. The new management has initiated substantial insti-
tutional reforms in several areas (such as improvements in the staff training
program and in the project follow-up system), and more are being planned.
The Bank's loan would support these efforts. The General Manager's appointment
reflects the Government's decision that COFINA be managed efficiently.
37.       Organization and Staff.  Following recent modifications, COFINA's
organizational structure is appropriate. COFINA is also adequately staffed,
although there is room for improved efficiency. However, over the last few
years, COFINA has had high rates of staff turnover, partly caused by a
lack of clear policies and procedures on personnel matters under the previous
management. COFINA has initiated a detailed evaluation of its personnel
policies, on the basis of which a reformed personnel system will be imple-
mented not later than mid-1981. This has led to improved staff morale. As
most of COFINA's staff is young and inexperienced, COFINA has placed consider-
able emphasis on training. Most training has been done in outside courses and
seminars, which have not been as effective as desired. Therefore, COFINA has



- 11 -
revised its training program, placing more emphasis on management training
inside COFINA and intensive, short-term courses arranged in Panama by COFINA
for selected groups of its staff.
38.        Standards and Procedures.  COFINA's appraisal work is of variable
quality, and needs improvement. COFINA has recruited an outside consultant
for a period of one year to implement a program which would assist it in
preparing manuals and standard appraisal formats, and which would provide
detailed training in appraisal and supervision to individual project officers.
Other consultants may be recruited for shorter periods. The technical support
would include assisting COFINA staff in the calculation of financial rates
of return, which will be calculated for all projects above US$100,000, and
economic rates of return, which will be calculated for those above US$500,000
(Section 2.03(c)(ii) of the Loan Agreement). The consultants would also
assist COFINA in the implementation of a new project follow-up system under
which the supervision work will be upgraded and systematized. COFINA has
already implemented a new disbursement system, which will prevent the premature
disbursements that sometimes took place in the past.
39.       Although COFINA has exercised some control over procurement decisions,
this has frequently been undocumented. COFINA has agreed that for all sub-
projects, it will include its own evaluation of the procurement decision,
normally supported by at least three alternative quotations. Also, COFINA
would include a justification for submitting less than three quotations, or
when the lowest quotation has not been selected (Sections 3.02(a)(ii) and
2.03(c)(i) of the Loan Agreement).
40.       Operating Policies.  Under COFINA's Statement of Objectives and
Policies, which cannot be changed in substance without the Bank's approval,
COFINA's maximum total exposure in financing any client is US$4 million
through 1982, and thereafter adjusted to 20 percent of equity . However,
COFINA can exceed this limit when its obligations are totally and uncondition-
ally covered by the Government's guarantee. There are also exposure limits on
COFINA's participation in total project cost, and in equity. In addition to
its Statement of Objectives and Policies, COFINA has prepared a Strategy
Statement for the period 1981-83, which has been approved by the Bank, and
which should be approved by COFINA's Board prior to loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). The Statement provides that COFINA will
(a) concentrate its activities on the financing of fixed investments for
medium and large scale industries, primarily in manufacturing where there are
substantial gaps to be met, but that it would also finance other productive
activities such as tourism, that are not well covered by other financial
institutions; (b) largely leave the financing of working capital to commercial
banks; (c) seek to play an active promotional role in the industrial sector,
and (d) seek to mobilize resources for industrial investment through its own
borrowings (e.g., from ioreign export credit agencies) and through cofinancing
arrangements with other financial institutions.
41.       Operations.  COFINA's gross approvals of loans and equity investments
increased from US$11.6 million for 23 projects in 1978 to US$14.7 million for
60 projects in 1979, and US$5 million for 30 projects in the first half of
1980. The moderate drop in approvals in 1980 reflects the increased concen-
tration of the previous management in the affairs of Air Panama during the



- 12 -
period, and the change in management in April 1980. Almost all of COFINA's
operations have been for projects in the private sector. The largest sub-
sectors financed have been services (including tourism), chemicals, and
agroindustries. Specifically, the most important subsectors financed under
Loan 1641-PAN have been the petroleum and chemical industries (US$2.6 million
for five subprojects), textiles and clothing (US$2.3 million for four sub-
projects), non-metallic minerals--(US$2 million for a semi-precious stone
project), metal industries (US$1.7 million for seven subprojects), food
industries (US$0.7 million for five subprojects) and tourism (US$ 0.8 million
for two subprojects). The operations are reasonably well distributed throughout
the country. In general, projects have a high expected financial rate of
return, are mostly for the local market (although in 1979 and 1980 there were
also some for exports), and had an expected investment cost per job which was
below the average observed in Panama over the past two years. (The average
fixed cost per job of COFINA's subprojects approved in 1979 and 1980 was
estimated at US$17,600.) In many cases, COFINA has been financing a high
percentage (around 70 percent) of total project cost. These percentages are
likely to be reduced as COFINA finances less working capital.
42.       Portfolio and Arrears.  The quality of COFINA's portfolio is reason-
ably good, although some clients are continuously late in honoring their
repayment obligations. As of June 30, 1980, principal and interest in arrears
over three months represented only 3 percent of total loan portfolio, although
14 percent of the outstanding portfolio (by amount) was affected by such
arrears. COFINA has recently initiated steps to encourage timely repayments
(issuing written notices prior to each due date, and repeated reminders to
clients in arrears). A new follow-up system should also contribute to improv-
ing loan collections and maintaining the arrears roughly at the present level
in relative terms.
43.        In line with its objective of strengthening COFINA, the Government
has taken a number of steps to improve the quality of COFINA's portfolio.
The Government has agreed to take off the books of COFINA the assets and
liabilities held by COFINA in connection with Air Panama, the country's national
airline and has taken all legal steps (including Cabinet and Presidential
formal approval) to ensure this action. However, it has not yet obtained the
approval of the concerned creditors of COFINA to transfer the obligations.
Until these are obtained, the Government will service all of COFINA's debts
relating to Air Panama. In addition, the shares of Air Panama, which had been
transferred to COFINA in 1978, have been transferred back to the Government.
COFINA's exposure of US$12.3 million in the airline represented a heavy burden
on the institution's liquidity and creditworthiness. Also in connection with
this loan, the Government has provided a US$1.5 million long term loan to
COFINA on terms equal to those made by COFINA to a priority project in the
Colon Free Zone (the Miramar subproject) which the Government wanted financed.
COFINA had been required to borrow short term at high interest rates to meet
this obligation, with a significantly negative impact on its profitability and
liquidity. Additionally, the Government has made explicit the guarantees it
had given COFINA to cover engagements in excess of its exposure limit. The
Government has reaffirmed its commitment to giving appropriate guarantees in
the event that it proposes that COFINA finance a project which would lead it
to exceed its exposure limit (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement).



- 13 -
44.       Financial Position.  COFINA's profitability has been improving,
but with net profit in 1979 at 1.8 percent of average equity, it is still low,
due mainly to high administrative expenses. COFINA is taking several steps to
improve its profitability, including the introduction of a one percent per
annum management fee on its new loans. In the future, COFINA's staff is
expected to grow at a moderate pace, which should lead to a reduction in
administrative expenses. As of August 31, 1980, COFINA's long-term debt/equity
ratio (including guarantees as debt) was 3.8:1, well below the contractual
limit of 5:1. COFINA is audited annually by the experienced firm Peat,
Marwick and Mitchell. The audits have been without qualifications.
Cost and Financing of the Project
45.       It is expected that COFINA's operations will increase over the next
few years: (a) the investment climate in Panama has improved, and COFINA's
pipeline of projects (a present demand for COFINA funds of about US$22 million
for 44 projects) has increased accordingly; (b) COFINA's administration has
improved substantially. Loan commitments for the period January 1981-June 1983
are thus projected at US$37 million, of which the proposed loan would cover
US$20 million. COFINA intends to mobilize resources for its industrial lending,
and has already approached several foreign export credit institutions, which
would provide tied credits. It can also obtain very substantial resources
from the commercial banks in Panama, but these will be primarily short-term.
Accordingly, COFINA requires untied, long-term resources from the Bank to
blend with its other resources. COFINA also requires further share capital
increases from the Government. In accordance with the law establishing
it, COFINA is supposed to receive each year revenues from a tax which amounts
to about 0.56 percent of the value of imports. The Government provided this
capital annually until 1979. In 1980, it did not make its contributions
because of budgetary constraints. COFINA will require additional equity
resources over the next few years to maintain its debt/equity ratio at a
reasonable level and to provide resources for share investments and promotional
activities. The Government has agreed to provide COFINA with annual share
capital resources as per the COFINA Charter for the period 1982-85, which is
the disbursement period of the proposed loan. The budgetary allocation for
1981 has already been made. Prior to loan effectiveness, the Government would
have paid in the first quarterly installment (Section 6.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).
46.       As in the case of Loan 1641-PAN, the proposed Bank loan would carry
a fixed amortization schedule (level principal payment) of 15 years including
a grace period of 3 years. A fixed schedule was requested by COFINA on the
ground that this would enable it to obtain and manage borrowing from other
sources more effectively. Projected cash flows show that COFINA would have
adequate liquidity to meet its repayments to the Bank and to other lenders.
Subloan terms are expected to average about 10 years and vary from 9 to 13
years. Taking into account the expected life of the subloans and the proposed
four-year disbursement period of the loan, an amortization schedule of 15
years is justified. There would be some rollover of funds, but this would not
impose any foreign exchange risk on COFINA as the Government would carry the



- 14 -
foreign risk against the US dollar (Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement).
The rollover funds would be used by COFINA for similar operations in line with
its Statement of Objectives and Policies.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
47.       The maximum subloan amortization schedule would be 15 years from the
date of the loan agreement with a maximum grace period of three years. As in
Loan 1641-PAN, a free limit of US$500,000 for individual subloans has been
established, which would permit the Bank to review about 75 percent of subloans
by amount and 40 percent by number.  This limit would be reviewed by the Bank
and COFINA from time to time. COFINA's minimum onlending rate would be reviewed
by the Bank and COFINA every six months, based on: (i) COFINA's cost of
borrowed funds; and (ii) the interest rates charged for term industrial credit
by other financial institutions in Panama and in international financial markets.
If no agreement on interest rates were to be reached within 60 days from the
start of such review, COFINA would discontinue making commitments under the
Bank loan until an agreement is reached between the Bank and COFINA. Under
present conditions, this minimum rate would be 13 percent per annum. This
represents a small increase from the 12.5 percent per annum being charged
under 1641-PAN. In addition, COFINA would charge a one percent per annum
management fee. The proposed terms (including the fee) would give a spread
for COFINA of 4.4 percent which is considered adequate (Section 3.06 of the
Loan Agreement). Wholesale prices in Panama rose by 7.1 percent in 1977;
5.5 percent in 1978; 14 percent in 1979 are estimated to have increased by
13 percent in 1980 and are projected to increase by 13 percent in 1981 and by
about 10 percent in subsequent years. Under these assumptions, the proposed
initial interest rate would be positive.
Disbursements
48.       The proceeds of the loan would finance the estimated average foreign
exchange component of COFINA's subloans and equity investments for the acquisi-
tion of fixed assets and permanent working capital by productive private and
public sector enterprises in the manufacturing and related subsectors. As in
the case of Loan 1641-PAN, the proceeds of the loan would be utilized to reimburse
COFINA for 100 percent of amounts disbursed for eligible expenditures, up to a
limit of 70 percent of documented total project cost, which is estimated to
represent the average foreign exchange content of COFINA's projects. The Bank
would disburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of consultant services
for its promotional activities and for the technical assistance and training
abroad for COFINA's staff. It would also disburse 60 percent of the total
cost (representing the estimated foreign exchange component) of special
training activities carried out in Panama. The 40 man-months of consultant
services have been costed at US$8,000 per man-month (including overhead),
which is considered reasonable for the type of expertise required.
Project Benefits and Risks
49.       The proposed project would assist the Government in its effort to
stimulate private industrial investment and support its goal of building an
efficient development finance institution. The primary risk associated with
the proposed loan concerns COFINA's ability to operate with an expanded
portfolio. Until recently, COFINA did not develop as expected, due largely



- 15 -
to a management change and management's involvement in Panama's national
airline. COFINA's present management has already undertaken a number of
institutional improvements, and more are underway. These measures have the
Government's full support. These changes, along with the training program
associated with the project, should lead to substantial improvement in COFINA's
operational efficiency.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Corporacion
Financiera Nacional, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Panama and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed sepa-
rately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of effectiveness are that COFINA has issued the Strategy
Statement covering the 1981-83 period and that the Government has paid in the
first quarterly installment of its 1981 capital contribution to COFINA.
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I.recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 27, 1981



-16 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGRTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             75. 7
AGP.ICULTURAL     17. 2                              MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA b CARIBRFAN          EURCPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 330.0       710.0   1350.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUIPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENb'    448.0       683.0    991.0                   1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.1         1.5      1.8
URLAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 41.3        47. 7    53.0                     63.4                    53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       3.0
STATIONARY POPUtATION (MILLIONS)                        4. 0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACME                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                       14.0       20.0       24.0                   28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. KK. AGRICULTURAL LAND     76.0        89.0    105.0                     81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.7       43.9      40.7                     41.4                    30.6
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        52.4      55.3                    54. 7                    61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.0         3.7       4.0                     3.9                      P.2
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8        2.9       2.6                     2.7                      1.6
U,BAN                             4.4          4.4      4.1                     4.1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TROUSAND)    41.0        37.0      31.0                    34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TgOUSAND)     10.0         8.0      6.0                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         2.8       2.5                     2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..           *-      15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WO1EN)   ..          ..      44.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         88.0        94.0    104.0                    106.9                    113.1
PERl CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  101.0       106.0    101.0                    107.4                   125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         58.0         61.0      61.0                   65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       26.0        30.0      32.0                    33.7                    39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     9.6          6.0       3.0                    8.4                      4.3
REALT
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.0        66.0       70.0                   63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          90.0        53.0      47.0                    66.5                     55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         70.0      79.0                    65.9
URBAN                              ..        98.0      93.0                    80.4
RURAL                              ..        43.0      63.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRR!TA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        79.7      87.8                    62.3
URBAN                              ..        92.5      97.1                    79.4
RURAL                              ..        68.2      78.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN         2700.0      1550.0    1259.0                  1849.2                  _1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3460.0/c   1420.0   1452.0                    1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            250.0      327.0    258.0                    480.3                    289.7
URBAN                              ..        176.0
RURAL                              ..       1570.0
AN6ISSIONS PER HOSPITAL  ED          ..        26.0      21.0                      ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.7         4.9
URBAN                             4.4          ..
RURAL                             4.9          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.4         2.2        ..
LIRBAN                             2. 1        1.8
RURAL                              2.6         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCGS)
TOTAL                             44.0        52.0
URBAN                            82.7        90.4
RURAL                             11.0        16.0



- 17 -                                      Annex I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAKA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIHATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0       103.0       86.0                     99.7                    105.9
MALE                  98.0       107.0      88.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE               94.0        100.0      84.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 29.0        40.0      115.0  /d                 34.4                      64.0
MALE                  26.0        38.0     107.0   -                 33.5                      71.1
FDIALE               31.0         42.0     122.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  28.0         32.0       30.0                     38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR2I5ARY                           29.0        27.0      30.0                     30.5                      29.4
SECONDA1Y                          23.0        21.0       23.0                     14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        73.0        78.0         ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         15.0        32.0      39. 7                    43.0                      84. 6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        151.0       158.0      157.0                   245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.0        97.0     108.0                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESVT CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        92.0       79.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           4. 8        ..                      ..                        5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       358.9       501.2      626.1                       *
FEKALE (PERCENT)                   21.2        25.9      26.0                     22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              50.9        41.6       35.0                     37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.7        16.1       18.3                    23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33. 1       34.0       33.8                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 51. 1       49.4       49.1                     48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                               14.3        17.9       17.8                     14.0                      26. 2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.4        1.3                      1.4                       1.0
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOGE                                   _
RECEIVED SY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         2.1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         9.5 
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      349.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      183.0                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      442.0                    474.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      287.0                   332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       21.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       30.0
Not available
Not appLicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arittuetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1951; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963.
Moat recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April. 1980.
/d The primary and secondary school enrollment ratios in 1978 are respectively
too low and too high, since a partial change to eight-year "basic schools"
allocated too many students from the primary to secondary track. The
data are now being adjusted to reflect the new system.
October 1980



-18 -                                                                                 .
Pa -c.3 of  6
DI9fl5TTIO99 OF SOCIAL ISOICATORI 
Po.:Althaush the d.t. ate drow   ff0. .0... ga-11ly judged the -et -otholtctil. wad rw1liabie  It ahou.0 als  00 00000 that 01h.07ow                     b. o 
tetIo lly  -p-cral. b-s. of th. lack of  t.lad.tdL..d dmfiitlooo .08  -onmt owed by differet  -nntries J.OilOlo     do:..  Xi 000-a nc
th.iw.., cafu.L to d ...riho ore. of nagnitud.. lodiotta t,oad.. end  -hro. ecra.mjor diffatoe.cce  boo.__conri
The r:fiwe.o.  .ru......   (1I) the  -m  c-ryao  grop of the .ubj..c c.atany s.d  (2) I cootr  gnoop aith  a.--.htt  hlighr,v-tag.  -uoo   0   it.Ot4.             -C
of o. wbjac   outy(uop  for 'Capitol Surpiuo Oil ferty--e" Stoup what  'Oiddia Inom   North Afrita and Middle East  IS Ictnh-                       occA
eooio-olt-rl off itdt..).  1n th. ref.rfo    aroup dota the  -roge   r  PoPuletio-  -ohted arithoetic me-  for ...ch itdi-ct cod uh-i  0007 o-.
let half of the cuotrie. In a grou.p hee dots far that indicator.  Since the coverag  of coutoiaa  -mg the indic--r  d.po..de  _n thu  -ratehcl,i 
dat. en          -iftt .-do, c iauto  m-a ha eor"oiaid -10 altIn9 aver         of o.  indicat-r to a-.th.,.  Th..ee.r--..er. .nly uwaf .1 to  -oparings            tc
ofoeI.dicator at I time   -Se the c..-try end refarmeo  irupw..
tANDS AREA (thoueedf:aq.1.)                                                                t'orulujtLft er Ph,eiocao - Opclcticn dtlicd- iy teen00 po-    AN puy-
Total - Tot.l eu-   -.    . comprtisin   1ed  -rn  sod iuled rae.                           IoI-e  que1.4d ft ro  amdicl.010-1 at cotarity la-1o.
Agrlcultu...  - tEtimate of  Ugi..Ltu.. I urn. ceed tmprai   orP-oraw ly                 p ..ulatio  pon  NmenineOeo   - Po.Pelutioe divided hy ... ho   Z.o on
foo  rop. psnur.. wh- cod Aitchn aerdee or te lie follow; 1977 dt.t.                nato Iad fowel. braduet.  uee  prattic.1l . .rIIt. end ua.cc              e.
Powlatse  00 nowte  hDM- toe.  urhe.   ed  ca-             -ti.cl.c li-tel,
MM? PU CAPITA (US$) -  tt peo ..pit.  Iaie.  t curret mart plie.., col-                      urhen. ad rural  diolt e   yteI   epoio   t                f! cc    . I un
oclewad by  a    oevrlo       ahud ae W-4l Sask Atlas (1977-79 howls); 1960,                -ieblh.e in P.hli.' eed priv.te genacol en   pild .9-.L.       . pi-I  W ot ow-
19 70, oad  1N79 d:_o                                                                      hobihg.1Uts  c- -a.   napitale ar  ncehue..t  petucn L, a-ffod
INDGY COSMalIN P     WITA - ..-I  -.optlao ofaowo..Wby It iowa  -   phywiina.  tatehlloae.et  p-ovding p,±Iocp.Xlv  eatodal
oadliTCg00to,pTlO  P       CA tIT 1 g-.  y- doa   eenoe  of1 oa on  energyl (coal            ...U. met leldad.  tural heepif c., h-eva, inolcfn hasP)c  -t  adital
andllgitw   ptreone.  steal  eeandhydo-,ealeo   ~   enheael  le-         cwt.r a nt p.rmnotiy  taffed by a phpuAi.io  (hnt by e meocA1 coatotet.
triolty) In kilogra    of col  qivetPer capita; 1960. 1970, and 197                        meow.  t,Lf.. etc.) thioh of fu  Se-patient actoind.tirc  -  provd. 
data.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Liited twege of medical fcoilitlen.  Fur wratiatical purp-n  cohe  boopi.
POPVLATIM AND VrfAL STATIPTICS                                                                heptel  locl.     I  p,or rura   heap rtul    -d medicl  d hoopimto. oea -. l
TotalPoqsL.tInm. Kid-Tear (aiUllwb-   A. of July 1; 1960. 1970. end 1979                 Adwlt.ein  oar  aorto  9.8 - Toted u-d   ofi edeieo.oo           t to or iahon.
"renPoole  (tret of MF!E     etle of urhe  to 'tota  pP1opuato;
difeet.dfinition    . o   ohnars  may affot Ompo-bhility of date                    wn
ammoooutrie;196.%110. 1970. end 1978 data.                                           A----e Siaa of liouehald                  h-ron   w  (oeholAJ-Itl tc  oss r-.al
Ponsi- Proeotow            c o    PPLca   totao                 h.         g           A heneahld tonie. of I group of indi~Uol.ul  wh - h     livcoa q-tr...
tota  Popalcu  hy, ng      d  ow sod their   rua"Lity sad f-rtility renee.             the chatce-hLd      1 fttAtibto-el proe..Lgt-                t      i!         .
Itog lifa eapetenc  tt hiooh inoreasig with cetry'epr.           aiaioa.               hr  fproe peorun..al  che.  d onoal~ oct                    -iodcouC
lee.ea   a laifa  -ep-ctecy stahillisig at 77.1 yar.                              ofmP..... ~ lne    oPeolol.-    Immlln -ocOicd. no-L_pooenn   -tt.r-sen
eanauw  for fentilltyrt   lnhv   ho    oeeenn   ele  in                                 mnuidpo
fartility oascerd    t  iwom  lewlaedpe    nl   imdgpoomae                            um.t  tio toii,(ern   fdelto)-rrlchn   nooa 
tech   -toecy in then  Mig"ad ow. of th.e  nine         "". i"'to     of mrat-         Conetioa         blis   0hoetiiyin10c   ocaec  O:rtg
-d fertility trend. S. or poaetion perpoe.ftta.uh.enroldelig  repw tlonl,.
Stationar   nraaie- In a etatioway poptelotis  therm  is en growth ein.                   otta.b- -                .1-li            owt iy
the hboth 0.t. ia eqo1 to the death rata. end aloe the age -tru..eo r-DCTI
melee  -ooeo   Th". I.e ehie.d4 ony  fter, f-rtility raoo deelie. to                 Adinted 2-rIleno.     ein
the reploot leve  of unit net -repgdetiao  resi. wha  mash generion                    Pio-er  .ohool - tot _l. eal  aed to l    - de t. tte, IeIt aed tooea.
of ra     r.ploce  itaef  -natly.  The etati-mey PePeletle in .enrolent of all ee. .  the. ptlodern 1-1 as peratoatne   I  -eepottam
enwinooad en the heelo af the preSentd   .okrowe-innic  of tb. papu.aeioo                 prd-.ay eho-0  p.P.L.,ioa; asor-Ily incdode  ohid-e  tod h-l1
in the  ea  2000. end Oha rote of deolla. c  frtniity rte. to, p"lo-                     ymo  hut edjuetd for dii -ooet I-sethe cf yrinaoy  Ati-ano; 0 or
_t                                                                       -~~~~~~-ountie  with unvra   d,artiem  enoo2e  my   -ama     -DO Pe-omet
T0WAIS.. h:  M                                                                             seeondeom, Iuee -  oa,  aeen       Iw- C.uted as chorn  corodee
fty."tim DftftcT                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-aag- requre  citse   a. y.    of epprrvd primary IrtrwntIao
- KUid-ya  popuclato  per Mqtsr  h1looter (100 heotor) of                      paovide  Iwnr-L. vocttionl,o  t..chor  oiee   iteaeuior     for pp01k
to"ta  are.                                                                                ..1aiT af 1.2 to 17 ym-  of age; csrvmpondinc  cor-e oo   onre
PerII kw.h.                1-lutu.  ed - Corated II ahav  fat agin 1ne    -ed                -edude
oal                                                                                     wetolenoltfronof VOcdr) - caiunni tcictotan
Iouaio   e  Soutre(noee    Childre  (-14 ywow *    nrha-e   (1                         nleatnaul  neti                   rohrprOgr     ehioh ope... indopen
h4 per)~ * n   aid       (hO year.!%  md -over)5. OP-.rwmet        of d,d2..ya  pape-       dntly  re  deta-moaot  of aeonderyinittne
lotiOn) 1940. 1970.sa  1971S data.                                                                       !21-t9tefato-  atear, endaeon      - Tota  otdot  unrlle  in
PPlonteleto  Grothfto  nrew  -  oel-disl  rh rune, of tota mid-                               prme?  adesener  101   divide  hy easher     tof taheo     t he
yea  popLuinuen  far 1950-60.1960t.1 owd 19-70'-7.                                          enovPondig lav,l..
Paowlatio  Growth hate (p-oreti - coen-  dA--I growh reteof sO burhamp09.                   MAlt te1rt-    rue(Ertet  - itteotat edalte (ehie on tool "o  wrie
IotionS for 1950-61d. 1960-70, end 1970-Pg                                                   napoete   fttlcutpo.ltu   gdl  er   o   rr
Crude Slth Lat  (pe t'as'd) - A-1ol ILiv  hirthe per theaasn  of mid-yer-1   .Ipa.t,  S                                                               yo         .r
population; 1960. 1970. and is78yg n..
Cr,da Sath Ran. (r vheuaed) - Aonul deethe per  h--ad of aid-yno                           aomerCor I ow  thecan  r lotltiom   - Poomene   or.carecoioomec
ppltn; 190  1705. en  1978 date,                                                  cr   etift iee  then eight pe-aune; oold.. -"I-_me  baro-.  end
hereaua. rpruasionpmiad if ehe  eo.pencwe prenen  o.-oen  in f .-                gai  eevr    s   hansud roruletie) - All typoe of r-1w...rI fr. redO,
tin"r rece;  -1ey  io-ya  ev.ra-e eadfag In 1960. 19709.-  1977.                          hrdeteognraphlcerh.swdfpplti;    tloes-
Pell  innee-  casam.daa  (hu.rei-   ml   tr  f  oepOe                              ene  ftvI    in  -tutrin. end to yea.  thenb  -giot-vie  of redin  -am
ofbrhonrldvcte  ndr tepn    ofetoo   owl   lme  prow                              e in si  r; dt.u for r-ow. y..rO  esy eo ha towoaraila adrnme
7owIIr Pimle- er    eretofer d SMLam) - P  oweetag. of earned                               -oetIoo abouat.d liowIneg.
memof ohild-hbnriag eo(54  ywb)wh   s ir=h-omro. device  ae                         TV tamiowo. (per the.oeeW owouletion) - TV rasedveo  forb . hodcast to
_li  arne   _na  In e_   g. group.                                                     genarl pehli  per the.we.   ppuintiot uncld.. -niteed7   oeOr
IOVA  .  TTO                                                                               to   -"wgiae ed in year. rh.  -atistlato. of TVot.e.iefc.
10am- of Food Frodentien  -o  C..nte (1969-71aiO        T- nowf per capitacs               aaeo Crweinf    thamoad ocuat                  hi - hu the  -roro   oitrml
productiomad sifod e-ditiae.  Praesio  enInda  good s" od     d wad                          _t.01. deetd-" len t-t -nPr.nrite   geealiow. Id           I  claadider
ieo  .dry bm haie.  C.ditiowoova  priaay goad. (..&. aunrta                       t. ha `daily" if it appea. It lene  f-o  timee a  ek
Laotwed of euor) ohoh are edble sad oetae  nrinte  (e.g. enf to                         homC.  Aeun    ttene. rr Cosite oar lee   - Oaaed en th  -unof O
tao e.  _nlded).  Agg.gat  p.odtU.0o  of  -eh oo.tryi hL.              en-               tichte  014d_r   theyo.iouigeueim   oliei   ia
_ati.laa   eaePoot.car prle. enighta  1961-AS. 197g7-d 197. date..7-                                                           ..d
Pot capta=ovi of coloie.(ecn   freleml-    Ce-ted dram                                    eod mehila enit..
enerYeuvae t  aofet food aVplie. aalheitm yPer capine                              L.A    YOMc
p.r day   Av.iilbe eappliaa  Wopien damtic prodntiao. lvpOe lees                     Total I.hrPra(huadl-gocel    ciepcc.  nld
enpor..  cna. in  teck.   -aM.PlSsa entld. enim    feed.  -do                   .aadfooe  edu lYad hut erldfog hanow.ion.. tredmeto.  m
qoenities uad in food P-goaig  s.d loeo-  in dletxibcstdo.   Dawr-                     gfinidtesin var t- w. outre  era at cepelet 1960, (070en
-$nn  -nr  ooti-td hy PAD bmad e  phyeflgisiel emd. fo_  -..ae uti-                     1976 dota.
vity end health c Iome tedg  -eiro Uasa  teoopogr, body weight.. na.                                           :  PnaaIahr  f-orasprorwooto             cnO'c .
edm dinrrih.a1odo  of populatlon. and aleIag. 10 peroet for Owta It                                            b -ine  forco to frmocog, fcresc'O  40.1-cac
hee.h.l  la.-I  1961-65. 1970. -d 1977 deta.                                            0ihgenper-omeeg  at tote  labor foon.; 19500.,T                 00   c
Pat cnt  .0 1, of P-.rW. (e,  oardam   - Protei  conen  of Pero.itool                      ut,fnreo      nu   oei  aeo.cotocio.oncoirn
ot  ,uPly offood p.o day.  Won eupl  af food is dfied en u`bve   1-                  woo,ete  ant- gee L".         f-        rc c.     of-cta  laoc (ccc.  960
qetrtce  for alt conole  -obtaliehd by PohpV=              a  o    ie         .   L79 oooo    1978y data..-                                   t.   i ,f-           9
olloeen  of 60 gram  of tot   pronain per dap 0.d 10 gree  of -nlna  -d              PartZlaloion her. 8-(percent  - ttonl    le  and f(macl     auooaino
pu._ prtein. c f whioh 10 S-n  ahoold ha  _i_ol prti.Thea  at:-                         etviyrte     nootdastulmleeddoe.lc   or,s
tod. co  iow    then thoo  of 75 gram  .0 total protei  ead 23 grm  ofT                 pere-ae ..of tanal.  ale and famie Ppoplntion of nlc.12 a resottowly;
enloa  protei  IIasceog   for the  -id,a pOnPoee  by 7AO1 in th   hOd                   16. 10-70. ant 1975 data.  Thee. are  MUl.O  9-roitperioa -oce  rodlntieg
OArd Fod  ormy;  96165.1970.cad  S97dn."                                        5g.es  eowuue  f the  :oltiaow, and lone ti-t  -otd.  A                _oi.-ai
t. en.poteneol  f_ ownIndl and'taoole- Prtein  _appy of food de-                  mceeof u nlma   oete
nio.4dow f   naaon Id       ee  In er      erda; 1961-65. 1970 ant 19'7 data.   IcemchowenrStn- tin of poputlotc uc.d. I!, -J     0   ra
Citld(ema1-) teteit, hat ier thae)   A- ce 1 denthe per thewesd in                    t  the ctaol Wabo  fase.
cgo grop 1-4 y-.r o. haoLIdrn in thie egw group; for meet devlepio.g  oe
trde date derived foow 11if  tablas  1960. 1970 end 1977 doe                         ino. ooTIoro
Potnentenoof  rivte loo           (both In csah and_ dod; - o         yco   lihot
Life tooto-       toSit  fre".) - A-esaae o.e   of ymare of Ufe. reaoo         eg           S Lp-orten ft,  ihet 20 percet, pooceac 21 pe.tnei  -Jd P-ccu.  Il pe-ne
an hi-ch;1960.`19170 end 1979 dat. .                                                            .   l
Infoat Mortlity Osee (wr thasaad) - 5Al- dsethe of infent. -d-       yoer   PQ7Z7 TAf? GROUPS
of  ga per theoeeed Ui- hirthe.                                                         1ettea-d Aheolct. Po-rco,Inaevl(0    0cctl- 000c cLiura-t1
Ao.... to S.f. 000  oortato of .. utioolm       rtl  oen  n - t-                            Abol..c po-or7 incom  ta-t  co rithAct             .albb odlTTi
utkr o  perple (toa,ch_,ed0..)wohtaoeh_oco ton.                                           as-tritin lly cd   4at    "it plus noowie   o-oIIolyeca!   o
went oppl    noldestoasted wuforo entera or enatad b.n  -soeoei"t'd                elfoodbi..
ete  r eh II that f- rwp-ottrod brh n  ePrig.. end  -entey wll) en                     ttmndfaelePtrylo     ee    0   0   aia     oe  a   ot  -
petwnteb    of their reoetiepoeti      i      1. I  en ehe  Itow e ptblic t.*ael.pvryin    ee   scotidi   org  Per -cpite
dteaelo  at-peo   located wow mer  thn 200 amrare down a hwee may ha                    perauma  inea   of the coutry   7060 leve  ta droived fcca the ourn
tomaiderd II bing within            I I reeoelen.    of. that h-u-.  In rura  uree        laa  with sdjenenent for hihor ...00 of liri.9 Ic co-b con
r.. .ewae enee  -.1d imply then the howeeif a or oobee  of the hewehela                gotier- Poceano!t       1   Aelaeprot Iomoobnnc~~o-c0hb
de  .o  aveco  pe   a  iepopovriomao  P-r of the day In fo...hieg the               end rura                       I ecn   fppltio              Ithnndn.01  rro.  ahenat  P-n.,.
S   .ly'.    wete ea d._                                                                      _ _  _
diepoel soIeneteme          of  hir  -epeottir   pupeetiene.  b-oe.u dio-                                               toenuic end SeioSl Ioa."       1.0
po.aa  my include the coUetoom  end dlapaoaL. with or withomt tramena,t.                                           tosntAeayeie end Powbotioma fornn--t
of h       -.eC.et  end  reavtrby -gge-hbo.  eytm  at the am  of                                                                        Orche  160
pit prvnomd miau..ler i        uateciane.



Population    : 1.826 million (nld-197B)                                                                                                                    Annex I
iSP Per Capital Us$1,350 (1979)                                                                                                                             Page 4 of 6
- 19 -
PANA    - iCoNtIaC IiDWATCV
Amount                                                             Annual Orowth RateA (S)
(million US$ t at
Indicator                current prices)                              Actuz                  E6    1t94                                                  19o,5ted
1975                       1975      197;      1Q77     197r          --  979      19ffO     19f      1f2       19ff3     19d4     1985       7  -
NATIONSL ACCOUNTS /c
Groas Domestic Product /a       1,934.2                        0.5      -0.3       3.4      3.7             4.9       5.3       5.1       5.0      4.4       4.2       4.2      5.0
Agriculture                     334.6                        5.6      -0.9      7,8      -0.S            -1.4       2.5       2.6      2.7       2.8       2.8       2.6      2.6
Industry                        414.4                       -5.6    -13.1       0.8      -0.1             5.2       7.0       6.0      5.5       5.5       5.8      6.0       6.5
Services                      1,185.2                        1.9      4.2       1.0       5.0             6.4       5.5       5.5      5.3       4.5       4.0      4.0       5.0
Conaumption                     1,456.9                       -5.0      -4.8      12.8       1.3             6.1      5.2       4.4       4.3       3.8      3.8       3.8      4.9
Gross Investment                  507.9                        10.0      4.0    -25.3      28.5              1.9      2.7       7.0       6.3      6.2       6.2       6.1      9.4
Exports of GNFS                   B51.5                         1.4      5.0       7.2     -8.0             0.5      +3.3       0.1      0.6       2.0       1.9       2.3      4.5
Imports of ONFS                   992.1                       -f.2      -16       3.4      3.4             1.0    -14.3      -2.5      -._2      -_.6Q     J.1 D      "       1-.
Gross National Savings            445.5                       61.4      -2.4    -30.0      19.2            21.6      17.8      10.2      8.8       9.5       6.8       6.7      3.7
PoICES
GDP Deflator                                                   4.7       4.0       4.0      4.2             11.0     13.2      10.4       9.0       8.0      7.0       6.7
Exchange Rate                                                   _              T    _       T                3. 11               .0                 =           T=
Share of ODP at Market Prices (1)                                 Average Annual Increase t%)
(at current prices) Ar ; (t constant 1950 prices)
1960     1970      1975 /c   1980                              1990-70    1970-75    1975-80    1.90t-55    1985-90
Gross Domestic Product            100.7    1DD.0    100.0       100.0    100.0    100.0              8.0         4.9         3.1        4.5          5.3)
Agriculture                      23.3      19.4     17.3       15.O      13.5     11.7             5.3         2.7         1.3        2.7         2.0
Industry                         18.S     21.8      21.4       17.4     17.4      17.0             9.1         1.0        -1.S        5.8         4.5
Services                         58.1     58.8      61.3       67.5      69.1     71.3             8.5         6.3         4.8        4.5         5.7
Comsuocption                       88.9      75.9     75,8       77.8      76.0     76.0              7.0         1.9        3.7         3.5         4.5
Gross Investment                   16.3      26.5      31.4      22.5      25.0     25.0            13.6         5.1         1.8         5.4         5.5
Exports GN}'S                      30.6      37.3     44.O       34.0      31.2      17.0             9.8         1.8       -1.0         1.4         3.0
Imports GNFS                       35.9     ED.6      51.3       42.2      37.6     40.0            10.3         2.1        -454         1.1        5%D
Gross National Savings              8.1      20.5     23.2       111.5    18.6      22.0             15.6       12.4        -5.4         9.8         6.9
As   o of GDP
19S0     1970       1975      1980
PU5LIC FINANCE (Public Sector)
Current Rev nues                             16.1     21.1       29.0      35.1
Current Expenditures                         14,9     18.q       26.0      12.1
Current Surplus (-) or deficit (-2.           1.2      2.2        3.0       2.8
Capital Expenditure                           3.7      5.6       13.2       9.2
Foreign FinancIng                            1.9        3.7       9.8       7.7
1960-70    1970-75    1975-90    1980-85    1985-90
OTHER INDICATOCS
INP Growth Rate (8)                             8.0         5.2         1.7        4.5         5.0
INP per Capita Growth Rate (D) 5.0                          2.5         0.7        2.0         2 
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (W) )            --          -           --         1.9         1.9
IC0F                                            2.4         5.4        5.4         5.4         5.0
Marginal Savings hate                           0.23        0.43       -0.28       'O, 8       0.29
Import Elasticity                               1.29       O.51       -1.33        0.28 d/    '.9
/a  At marcet prices/ comonnent. are expressed at market prices  not of Factot cost.
/b  Projected years at constant prices (1980-199D).
/C Growth rates arc for GDP in 1960 prices.
/d 0.7 for 1981-85; the lower 1980-85 rate stems from fall in import. expec-td in 1980 after heavy build up of stocks in 1979.
fe Oil imports growth rate.
October 1980



- 20 -                                                    An     I
Population    ,  1.826 rillion (.dd-1978)                                                                                                              P.Se 5 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  U8$1,350 (1979)
PAIAM  - E7.PJR&L IME
Aount                                                          Annual GOroeth Rates U)
(willion U15 at                                                   (at constant 1977 prices)
Indicator               current Price-)                     Actual                                                                Proj19
197 5                                                             197996  97    1960   19031      1902 ....0~3         1984      19B5       19iT6
EXTEROAL T6.iDE
Morchondise Exports                  267.3        .42.0      -19.3        9.4.     -1.7                -6.6      10.7        3.6       3.0        4.5       6.0       4.8        4.9
Pr5iary                            134.3        .36.9       10.3        8.0       2.3               -12.24     18.6        3.7       1.0        3.4       3.9        3.3       3.11
-nf-ctures and other               133.0        .47.6       67.8      10.2       10.6                12.3       6.1       7.2        8.8        9.5       9.8      10.0        7.4
-acce Ixport.                  815.6         .11.6      -11.1      -4.1        5.8                 3.1     _14.3       2.3        2.7       3.0        3.2       3.3        3.1
S od                                59.7        .29.5       18.5      38.1        8.5                4.6        4.5       4.4        4.4       4.6        4.5       4.4        4.4
Petrole=                           334.5         20 6      -24.7       -9.1     -19.6               -21.0     -13.9       -5.3      -3.4       -2.4      -1.9      -1.4       _0.9
Machinery and Equipant             156.6        .15.2        S.9    -19.4        21.0                27.9    -30.9         4.0       3.9        3.8       4.2       4.1        4.4
Manufacturee                       176.9        -11.7         8.7     -3.2       17.1                 4 4       3.6        3.6       3 6        3.6       3.6        3.6       3 0
Ran Materials                       87.9        .23.5      -35.0       24.1      28.1                 5.9       4.8        4.9       4.8        4.8       4.8       4.8        6.S
PdRiCES
Export Price Index                                  93.2      95.3      100.0     104.0               116.1     128.9      140.9     155.2     168.5      183.9     200.3      213.5
Inport Price Index                                  92.5      96.8     100.0      105.8               132.4     161.0     178.5      195.7     211.1      228.3     245.9      261.3
Termn  of Trade Index,                            100.8       98.5     100.0       98.3                87.7      80.1      78.9       79.3       79.7      83.6      81.5       31.7
Coxpopitioc of Merchandise Trade (S)                              Average Annual Increa,, (S)
(at current prioes)                                       (       tt con tInt 1977 prices)
1960     1970     1975      1980     1985     1993          1950-70    1970-75    1975-hO    19SO-o5    1985-90
Exports                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0             n.a.        n.e.       -3.5         4.3        4.5
Primary                   73.9     74.2     50.2      56.5     65.9      65.6                                   4.9        3.5         2.2
Manufoctores              26.1      6.o     14.6      24.7     29.4      32.0                                  19.5         9.1       10.0
Inporta                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0             n.e.       n.a.        -3.4        2.9         3.8
Food                      14.7      8.5      7.3       8.3      7.2       7.0                                  14.1        4.5         4.3
Petruleon                  9.9     19.0     41.0      28.8     26.1      25.J                                 -19. 3      -3.3         3.2
Machiery end Equiprent  22.1       27.5     19.2      20.4     22.0      22.0                                  -1.S        4.0         4.9
Others                    53.3     45.0     32.5      42.5     44.7     46.o                                    4.8        4.0         4.8
Share of Trade vith                  Shere of T-ad  cith                          Share cf Trade with
Indu trIal Co"tbria  (M)            D1 ..inpn Co-ntrlel  (.)                Copitn1 Sorplun Oil Exportere (%)
1960      1970      1975             1965      1970       1975                   1960       1970     1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Esports                                    99.0      89.6      74.8              1.0       10.4     24.6                     C.(        0.o      0.6
Primacy                                 n.o.        .a.      96.7             c.s.      n.-.       2.3                    n.-.       n.s.      1.0
Menufactcroe                             045.      0.0.      n.a.             nan.      n.-.      o.a.                    n.a.       n.O.      0.0.
Import.                                   74.9       61.3      41.4             24.7      20.7      18.9                     0.4       IS.0    39.7
October 19EO



AJmex I
-.21-Pe 6 of 6
Population    : 1.826 ,illion (mid-1978)
GNP Per Capita. Us01,350 (1979)
PANAMA - BAUME OF PAINTS. El.RAL CAPITAL AND TE
(iUiona:s U8 at c       prnt  icee)
ActualPretd
1975     1976      1977      I978       79        1980      1981             P       d1982  1983   1985      1986
BAIANCE 0Q PAmENTS
Exports of goods and services (NP)          851.5    827.7    908.7    946.7  1,o45.7    1,120.3  1,219.2  1,365.2  1,505.7  1,675.1  1,866.o            2 079*0
Of which:  Merchmndise f.o.b.             (330.8)  (270.6)  (235.5)  (235.4)  (i245.a)    (301.9)   (339.3)  (391.6)   (32.0)  (b8B.2)  (545.9)          16O8.0)
Imports of goods and services (NP)         992.1    976.8    997.8  1,076.8  1,335.3   i 1,3*1.3  1,543.2  1,709.9  1,872.5  2,052.7  2,247.9            2,462.0
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.              (821.9)  (784.3)  (784.1)  (862.0) (1,077.7)  t(1,122.9) (1,245.5) (1,380.1) (1,511.3) (1,656.1) (18114.3)   (1,987.0)
Net Transfers                               -5.0      -3.9      _2.3      -1.3     -0.3         0.7      T1.        2.7      3.7       4.7       5.7         6.0
Investment Inoome (Net)                    -20.8    -53.8    -61.4    -85.0   -174.7           .1 N -2U90   -.9.3   -282.3   -303.8   -327.7             -360.0
Current Account Balance                    -166.4   -206.8   -152.8   -216.4   -484.8        -532.4   -611.3   -631.3   .-645.4   -676.7   -703.9         -737.0
Officia1 Capital Net                        79.2    290.2    256.3    513.91/  192.4          260.0    231.4    215.4    242.0    269.2    298.8           300.0
Amortization                               27.5     41.9      86.9    W40.5    190.0        197.5    191.6    267.2    379.4    332.1    331.8           337.0
Disbursement                             106.7    332.1    343.2    954.4    382.4          457.5    423.0    482.6    621.4    601.3    630.6           637.0
Privete Capital (Net) 21                    61.4   -141.1   -167.2   -383.8         97.2       11.0      92.6    129.3    124.8    108.4        83.1        77.0
Monetary Capital Net 31                     175.7     30.7       4.9   -167.5    195.2        261.4    287.3    286.6    278.6    299.1    322.0           360.0
Unidentified prisate iflee, errore
& osions                                -149.9      27.0      58.8    253.8       -          -         -         -
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Ores, Diebur.e.ent                         249.0    375.1    341.2    986.4.1l  382.4         457.5    423.0    482.6    621.4    601.3    630.6          637.0
Official Gorant                             8.6     13.7       7.7       4.T       5.0
..n.es.ina1 loans                         25.6      24.9      24.2      19.2     28.9
rlon-cenceeeional lutes
Officiel Export Credits               - n..         n.e.      n.e.     n.e.      o.s.
IBRD                                      25.8      24.1      14.1      11.8     17.0        19.9      31.5     38.7      45.2      48.0      43.7       40.0
Other Multil.te-I                         12.4      14.7      16.0      32.1     29.9
Private                                  172.2    290.6    279.6    901.5    19q.2
Public 6ternal debt 4/
Debt Outetmnding .n2 dibure-d            564.8    774.2  1,104.6  1,356.2   1,909.8    2,133.7  2,393.7   2,625.1  2,840.5  3,082.5  3,351.7    3,652.0
Official                               194.7    262.6    337.0    390.3    461.4
Private                                 370.1    511.6    767.6    965.9  1,448.4
Undieb.re.d Debt                         192.9    353.3    340.6    495.1   5S.9
Debt
Total Slrvice Payent.                     72.4    105.0    165.7    571.8    401.0          500.5    526.7    608.5    720.3    702.0    734.0    . 775.6
Interest                                41.2      60.4      78.4    129.5    211.0        303.0    335.1    341.3    340.9    369.9    402.2  y   438.0
Payments  7. Export.                       7.3      12.7      18.2      60.4     38.3        44.7      43.2     44.6      47.8      41.9      39.3       37.3
Average aitre-t Rate on New l.en- (%)        -         _         -        -         -           -        10.7     11.0      10.7      12.0      12.0       12.0
Official                                   5.6       6.6       8.0       5.3      6.2         9.3       -        _         _         -         _          -
Private                                    9.2       8.7       8.4       9.4     11.2        11.0                          -          -
Averaa. Maturity of New louns (ye-s.)
Official                                  21.5      18.5      18.5      17.0     19.1        17.0      17.0      17.0     15.0      15.0      15.0       15.0
Private                                    7.8       6.5       7.0      10.3     12.1         8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0
% of Total Debt Outet-nding
at December 31. 1978
Matority Structure
Maturing within 5 years, 30.5
Maturing within 10 years . 74.3
Interest Structure
Lees than 0.1 percent had interest payable in the first year.
1/ Pnama undertook large rfi-ing of the debt in 1978.
2/ UEtiated as the difference between the resource gSp and officil c-pital net.
3/jl975-70 actual figures, 1979-85 amount required t. ba-nce the account,  ..., to  void deflating the aconmey.
CouatrY Proarg- I
4/ DOG at beglsninj of the year.                                                                                                  Latin America and the Caribb_na
Regional Office
October 1980



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of January 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number        Year         Borrower               Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
10 loans    (1953-80)    Fully disbursed                           137.4            -
901-PAN       1973        BNP                Livestock Credit       4.7          0.2
1280-PAN       1976        IDAAN              Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0          6.9
1397-PAN       1977        BNP                Livestock Credit       8.0          6.3
1398-PAN       1977        BNP                Fisheries Credit       5.1          1.7
1470-PAN       1977        IRHE               Power                 42.0         34.8
1565-PAN       1978        Republic           Highway
of Panama          Maintenance         12.0          9.6
1641-PAN       1978        COFINA             Industrial Credit   15.0            7.7
1672-PAN       1979        BNP                Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.          19.0         16.7
1778-PAN       1980        IRHE               Power                 23.0         22.8
1878-PAN       1980       Republic
of Panama        Urban                 35.0         35.0
Total (less cancellations)                          313.2        141.7
of which has been repaid                           34.3
Total now outstanding                               278.9
Amount sold                          9.2
of which has been repaid          8.4               0.8
Total now held by Bank                              278.1
Total undisbursed                                                141.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                       Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero                1.2     0.3       1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                          2.4      1.4       3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                               -     2.5       2.5
Total gross commitments                          3.6     4.2       7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                         0.4      0.3       0.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                3.2     3.9       7.1
Total undisbursed                                 -      0.1       0.1



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 901:      Livestock Development Project: US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform settlements
involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening, and technical services.
Commitments lagged behind appraisal estimates, due mainly to initial delays
in organizing the project unit. The loan has now been fully committed.
The Borrower carried out a study to determine ways to expedite disbursements
and, on the basis of that review, the Closing Date was extended to March 31,
1981.
Loan 1280:     Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
The project includes: improvement of the distribution facilities in the
low-income district of El Chorrillo in Panama City; construction of a water
treatment plant to serve Colon; improvement of the water treatment plant of
the City of Chorrera; provision of water to the town of Arraijan and the
fishing port of Vacamonte; purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters;
technical assistance to improve the organization of IDAAN and to install a
new accounting and commercial system. Project execution has been slower
than estimated at appraisal due in part to changes in the management of the
Borrower. As a result of the changes, there were delays in the selection of
the consultants to carry out the engineering of the Colon treatment plant and
the rehabilitation of the Chorrera treatment plant, the largest components of
the project. Construction of all project components has started and is
proceeding well, and no further delays are expected. Some of the expected
improvements in the accounting and commercial systems have been carried out:
asset valuation has been completed and the billing and collection system
improved. The company has been financially sound largely as a result of
substantial increases in water rates in 1976 and 1977. In addition, on the
recommendation of the Bank, IDAAN recently agreed to seek the assistance
of a financial expert from the World Health Organization to help it in
carrying out additional improvements.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan 1397:    Second Livestock Development Prolect; US$8 Million Loan of
April 25, 1977: Closing Date: August 31. 1982.
The project includes financing for small and medium scale milk producers;
for livestock breeding facilities, and technical assistance. Changes in the
milk legislation required in connection with the project involve a modification
in the method of determining the price paid to producers: the price of milk
is now determined by the building standards of the farms. The modified legis-
lation will require that producers be paid according to the quality of milk
produced. The legislation was approved in 1978 and the Government is taking
steps to ensure its implementation scheduled for 1982. Earlier this year,
the Bank agreed to modify the livestock breeding farm component which was
to be carried out in an autonomous state farm that has now become part of
a military base; it will now be carried out in five different research
extension farms of the Ministry of Agriculture. Loan commitments for the
small- and medium-scale milk producers, the most important component of the
project, are behind appraisal schedule due to delays in commitments in 1977,
the year of the Canal Treaty ratification. However, demand for credit under
the project is now reported to be good, and it is estimated that project funds
will be fully committed only slightly behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1398:      Second Fisheries Project; US$5.1 Million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project includes the construction of ten new purse seiners, the rehabilita-
tion of ten wooden shrimp trawlers; the relocation of shrimp processing
plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte; the development of fresh
water fish and oyster farms, and technical assistance. The purse seiner
component has been substantially completed: the boats have been constructed
and credit given to the beneficiaries. The fresh water fish and oyster farm
development components are proceeding on schedule. In February 1980, US$2.4
million was cancelled from the loan because (i) the unit cost of the purse
seiners was lower than estimated at appraisal; (ii) the demand for six shrimp
processing plants was lower than expected; and (iii) there was no demand for
the new shrimp vessels which were initially included in the project. The
shrimp vessel component was deleted from the project.
Loan 1470:     Fourth Power (Fortuna Hydroelectric) Project:  US$42 Million
Loan of July 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project, cofinanced by the IDB (US$98 million) and suppliers, consists of
the construction of the 255 MW Fortuna Hydroelectric Project, and associated
transmission as well as technical assistance for organizational improvement
and a training program for the Borrower. All major contracts have been
awarded. The underground civil works, financed by the IDB, are about six
months behind the schedule agreed with the contractors--IMPREGILO (Italy)--
due primarily to the contractors' inability to meet its excavation rate



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
targets for the tunnels and underground cavern. Further delays could occur
due to deposits of decomposed rock encountered in the tunnel's path and in
the cavern. Since the schedule agreed with the contractors was more opti-
mistic than the appraisal estimates of construction, the project is still
expected to be commissioned by mid-1983 as estimated at appraisal. The
organization and training programs, being financed by the Bank, are expected
to be completed in mid-1981.
Loan 1565:     Highway Maintenance Project:  US$12 Million Loan of June 30,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project finances equipment, spare parts and technical assistance required
to implement a four-year road maintenance program, which would strengthen the
maintenance capability of the Ministry of Public Works. The project started
about one year behind schedule due to delays in fielding a team of consultants,
instead of a consulting firm, as a consequence of a change in government
policy. A group of seven experts is now working in Panama in two pilot
provinces. Procurement of maintenance equipment is underway and project is
now progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1641:     Development Banking Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 23,
1979; Closing Date: December 31. 1982.
The project would help finance the estimated foreign exchange component of
subloans and equity investments for the acquisition of fixed assets and perm-
anent working capital by productive private and public sector enterprises in
the manufacturing, service and tourism sectors. The loan only became effective
on September 25, 1979 because of delays in obtaining Government guarantees
covering COFINA's exposure in several enterprises in excess of the limits
stipulated in COFINA's Policy Statement. The problem was resolved and subloan
commitments have moved faster than appraisal estimates and the loan will be
committed ahead of schedule. Recent changes in COFINA's management and senior
staff have improved the prospects for building a strong institution.
Loan 1672:     Tropical Tree Crop Development Project:  US$19 Million Loan of
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project consists of (i) long-term financing for the renovation of 1,500 ha
of coffee; (ii) long-term financing for the planting of 600 ha of coffee and
the planting of an additional 1,900 ha of cocoa; (iii) the planting of 1,000 ha
of bananas on land worked by three agrarian reform groups; (iv) the planting
of 3,000 ha of oil palm principally on land worked by agrarian reform groups
and the construction of the first stage of an oil processing plant; and (v) con-
sulting services to assist and train local coffee, cocoa and oil palm techni-
cians and to assist in operating an evaluation system to assess the impact of
the cocoa and coffee programs. The coffee and cocoa components are proceeding
satisfactorily. The banana and oil palm components have suffered delays
because of a change in management in one of the key implementing organizations,
the Banana Corporation of the Pacific (COBAPA) which led to a deterioration of
its finances and technical capability. Recently, the Government made changes
in COBAPA's administration which should help resolve the problem.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1778:      Fifth Power Prolect:  US$23 Million Loan of January 30.
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a program designed to rehabilitate and expand IRHE's
subtransmission and distribution systems in the 1980-83 period. Procurement
of equipment is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1878:      Colon Urban Development Project:  US$35 Million Loan of
August 7. 1980: Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project, which is cofinanced by a group of commercial banks led by the
Industrial Bank of Japan, consists of a program designed to rehabilitate
Colon as an economic growth center; to alleviate poverty through employ-
ment generation and improve the provision of urban and regional services.
It includes extension of the existing Free Zone; urbanization of new areas
including the construction of about 4,000 new dwellings; improvements to
the urban and regional infrastructure and technical assistance. Formal
arrangements among the various government agencies implementing the project
has been finalized and the project is being executed as planned. Procurement
of all project components is on schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of KeY Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)   Project prepared by:            COFINA
(2)   Initial request for
Bank financing:                 September 1979
(3)   First Bank mission
to consider project:            April 1980
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:           September 1980
(c)  Negotiations Completed:                February 1981
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:            June 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
1II. Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
1.   COFINA would calculate financial rates of return for all subprojects
in excess of US$100,000 and economic rates of return for those in
excess of US$500,000 (para. 38);
2.   COFINA would include its own evaluation of procurement decisions
normally supported by at least three quotations for all subprojects
presented to the Bank. COFINA would also include a justification for
submitting less than three quotations, or when the lowest quotation has
not been selected (para. 39);
3.   COFINA would charge an interest rate of at least 13 percent per annum;
this rate would be reviewed every six months to take into account COFINA's
cost of borrowed fund and the interest rates charged by similar institu-
tions in Panama and other financial markets (para. 47);
4.   The Government would provide annual capital increases to COFINA (para. 45);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5.   The Government would guarantee those investments which it proposes
to COFINA and which result in COFINA exceeding its exposure limit
(para. 43);
6.   The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk of the proposed
loan (para. 46);
7.   The Government would undertake an industrial sector study which would
start no later than July 15, 1981 and be completed by the end of 1982.
It would exchange views with the Bank on the terms of reference of the
study and on the quaifications of the consultants to be contracted and
send to the Bank for review and comments the conclusions of the survey
(para. 28); and
8.   Prior to loan effectiveness COFINA would obtain Board approval for its
Strategy Statement and the Government would pay in the first quarterly
installment of its 1981 budgeted capital contribution to COFINA (paras.
40 and 45).



IBRD 2732R3
C A:~ R:~ f1    8                           E    A   S          A
gt~~~~~UFC                                                                                      F AIntr-M
Nt
0   ~~~~~..P.Ont
V~Q  O~IB 0C AS  D EL  TOO                                                        Cap~r
CaflOt  ConeopojAn    AnOlOca ~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~------r'~~                                   Ca \
*DVD C H I RIOQ U I                             L. Y.g~odo          OloO
ITOIhAO  Podne I  SdboIo~V E RAG U A S                                  nA*       SoCaI                DL9L
Guarornal  0   POOUQO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E R.*
~   OS SANTOS                            Al- WO    , OPOOOOOOps
F*d                                                        J.q.6~~ArloIo ' 0d19*10
Cor~E  ~                                   Poani                 nor orpot
A0T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAtA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      Tfn"blb                                                                                             v
~~ IAI*AOAI~~~~~~~~~~1  CAMBMA  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o2
On~~~~7                                                                                                               0
COST                                                                                    n    I   00  05  00-                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eih



