OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 1955 PAN
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Second Development Banking Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Dated      2r                , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1955 PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           cLA, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A D DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a public corporation established and operating
under the laws of the Republic of Panana.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(e) "Balboa" and "B" mean the currency of the Guarantor.


﻿-2-
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Charter" means Law No. 65, dated December 1, 1975,
of the Guarantor, which established the charter of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Objectives and Policies" means the state-
ment of lending and investment policy approved by the Directors of
the Borrower on November 22, 1978, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(i) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower dated January 23, 1979, and "Prior Loan"
means the Loan provided for therein.
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(k) "MICI" means the Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias
of the Guarantor including any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower:
(i) on account of withdrawals made by an Investment
Enterprise under a sub-loan or investment to meet
up to 70% of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of: (A) goods


﻿-3-
other than fixed assets (including the reasonable
cost of transport and installation thereof but
excluding land) and permanent working capital; and
(B) a sub-loan or investment unless the sub-loan or
investment shall have been approved by the Bank, or
the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for
which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account;
(ii) to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of
services for Part B of the Project, or, if acquired
locally, 60% of the total cost thereof; provided,
however, that the amounts so withdrawn shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $200,000;
and
(iii) to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of the
consultants' services for Part C of the Project;
provided, however, that the amounts so withdrawn
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$200,000.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $500,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior
Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,


﻿the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) In addition, in respect of all sub-loans and investments
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank: (i) a representation by the Borrower that
the goods and services required for each Investment Project are
suitable for the purpose and reasonably priced, and whenever such
goods and services have been procured without prior request of
the quotations referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) (1) of this
Agreement or the contract has not been awarded to the supplier
offering the lowest quotation, include in such representation the
reason thereof; and (ii) the estimated financial rate of return
of any Investment Project with a cost equivalent to $100,000 or
more, and the estimated economic rate of return of any Investment
Project with a cost equivalent to $500,000 or more.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace of not more than
three years and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of this
Agreement, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the BGrrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in Panama as will contribute to the economic and social develop-
ment of the country. The Project consists in:
Part A:   the financing of specific development projects through
loans to and investments in private and public enterprises in
Panama, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower;
Part B:   strengthening of the operational capability of the
Borrower and training of Borrower's staff as required for that
purpose; and
Part C:   the execution of sectoral studies required by the
Borrower to further its promotional activities.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with competent and experienced management


﻿- 6 -
and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and the State-
ment of Objectives and Policies.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications and experience, and terms and condi-
tions of employment, shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
lank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be adequate for
purposes of the Investment Project and purchased at a reasonable
price, based on price quotations for such goods and services of at
least three suppliers and taking also into account other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insur,.nce shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial


﻿-7-
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds
of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the sub-loans and investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, the Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) charge interest at a
yearly rate of not less than thirteen per cent (13%) on the
principal amount outstanding of sub-loans;


﻿- 8 -
(b) from time to time and at least once every six months,
starting from the second six-month period following the date of
this Agreement, review with the Bank the adequacy of, and if
necessary revise, the interest rate set forth in paragraph (a)
above; such review to take into account the cost of the funds
borrowed by the Borrower in the preceding six-month period and the
interest rate charged by similar financial institutions for
medium- and long-term industrial financing in Panama and the
international financial markets; and
(c) If in sixty days from the initiation of any such review
the Bank and the Borrower shall not have reached agreement on the
revision of such rates, the Borrower, at the request of the Bank,
shall not make any new commitment for sub-loans until such time as
the Bank and the Borrower shall have so agreed.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall re-utilize in the lending
program included in the Project the proceeds of repayment of the
principal of, and of payment of interest and other charges on,
sub-loans, to the extent that such proceeds are not required for
purposes of servicing the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall frcm time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
five times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:


﻿- 10 -
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Balboas debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its sub-
sidaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and its sub-
sidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall repre-
sent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any
subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Balboas) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its sub-
sidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter which in
the Bank's judgement would materially and adversely affect the
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would in the Bank's judgment adversely
affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's
financial condition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period 'of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence, satis-
factory to the Bank, that it has approved a Strategy Statement,
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the criteria that the
Borrower will follow in its operations in the years 1981 through
1983; and
(b) the Guarantor has contributed to the capital of the
Borrower an initial quarterly installment, as part of the capital
contribution for the year 1981 pursuant to Section 3.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement, in terms and amount satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 6.02. The date of     91 19i/ , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Sectio, 12. 4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional
P. 0. Box 6-2191
Estafeta El Dorado
Panamg
Republica de PanamA
Cable address:                       Telex:
COFINA                               2583
PanamS
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Panama City,
Panama, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/SI S   -    QI)Q'bQJ
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Autho  zed Representative


﻿-14
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 1984                        835,000
through   November 15, 1995
and on May 15, 1996                                795,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.90%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  3.85%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                            7.05%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                            8.30%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are added after the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  -2      day of       , 198
FOR SECRETARY


