Report No. 23639
Report No: I057394 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GAMBIA, THE     Project ID: P057394
Project: GATEWAY PROJECT         Task Team Leader: Michel Audige
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 2, 2001      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: February 28, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 16.00
Managing Unit: AFTTR     Sector: MT - Trade Policy Reform
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development goal of Phase 1 is to lay the foundation for expanded
private investment export-oriented production and employment, through the
establishment of the Free Zone and an improved institutional environment.
This objective will be achieved by:
Establishing a self-sustaining Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zone
Agency (GIPFZA)
Marketing and facilitating local and foreign investments in well-targeted
economic sectors
Developing a 10 ha. pilot Free Zone (FZ) at the airport
Promoting privately financed and operated FZ-related businesses, including
teleport services
Helping the government to implement its divestiture strategy
Mitigating any social and/or environmental impacts that could result from
project implementation
Preparing the APL 2, including a better interface between the FZs and the
population along the Gambia River.
This goal will also be achieved by supporting on-going efforts from donors
in the following fields:
Building business and technical skills among private and public sector
actors
Facilitating administrative procedures for private enterprise creation,
investment, and operations in tourism, trade services, and agriculture
sub-sectors
Modernizing ports and airport services and streamlining customs clearance
procedures.
I.A.3. Project Description:
A. Physical Investment for a new Free Zone at the airport
This component will establish the physical infrastructure necessary for an
operational Free Zone (FZ) at the airport. It includes (i) infrastructure
to enable the Free Zone at the airport, including common users facilities
and utilities; and (ii) consulting services for supervising works.



B. Establishment of GIPFZA.
This component will establish the GIPFZA as a self-sustaining entity that
manages the FZs and promotes trade and investment. It will include (i)
operational support to GIPFZA; (ii) technical assistance; (iii) consulting
services to complete and implement marketing plans and market surveys;
(iv) consulting services for investment promotion; and (v) studies
(River-Free Zones Interface, a Trade & Transport facilitation survey, a
Quality Management Systems (QMS) Audit for the Customs & Excise
Department).
C. Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency
This component supports the Government agenda for privatization. It will
include (i) technical assistance to support the Government Divestiture
Program; (ii) divestiture safeguarding and monitoring; and (iii)
divestiture consensus building through national and international camp.
D. Capacity-Building
This component includes training activities for both the public and the
private sectors directly involved in investment and Free Zone-related
businesses. Training will include quality management and control
processes, the ISO certification concept, and information about US and
European markets' access regulations for products originating from ACP
countries.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Free Zone site is located at the Banjul Airport.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments:
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Gateway Project began in
May 2000 under the auspices of the EIA Working Group of the Gateway
Project Task Force. During the study, numerous field and office
consultations took place. Specific consultations occurred to discuss the
EIA Inception Report (July 4, 2000) and the Draft Final Report (September
28, 2000). The final EIA report was submitted in October 2000, along with
a draft Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP). In order to
present and discuss publicly these two documents, which were updated in
May 2001, a consultative meeting was held at the Senegambia Beach Hotel on
26th June 2001. As a follow-up to the consultative meeting, a three-week
public review process was launched in early July 2001. The documents were
placed in all the administrative commissioners offices and municipalities,
as well as at the National Assembly and the National Library. The NEA then
collated the comments from the public and sent them to the consultants for
their Final ESMP Report.
The EIA treated five alternative FZ sites, but finally focused on the two
sites chosen in the IDI/Jebel Ali Free Zone Authority Feasibility Study -
the airport site and the Bund Road site for the port. However, the
detailed engineering design and further environmental investigations
revealed that the Bund Road site was unsuitable because (i) the soil and
geotechnical characteristics make it prone to flooding and unsuitable to
support buildings and warehouses at a reasonable cost; and (ii) this is a
potential "RAMSAR" site. Consequently, the Bund Road site has been dropped
-2 -



from the Project.
During the operations phase, the environmental impacts will depend on the
kinds of economic activities carried out in the FZ. Since these activities
have not been defined, the EIA carried out a broad generic assessment of a
range of activities, such as food and fish processing,
electronics/assembly, cotton spinning, and wood furniture making.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
While only the EA related to both airport and Bund Road sites, the ESMP
only focuses on the airport because the Bund Road site development has
been dropped during project preparation for the reasons explained above.
The revised ESMP includes a summary, in matrix format, of the
environmental and social issues related to the development of the airport
site and the mitigating measures. To facilitate implementation of the
ESMP, the impacts and mitigation measure have been separated for (i) the
construction phase and (ii) the operations phase, and the responsibility
for each measure has been clearly assigned.
For the construction phase, there will be many common impacts and
mitigation measures, which will be implemented through contract clauses.
For the operations phase, a standard format and guidelines for completing
activity-specific EIAs and EMPs has been defined. At minimum, the ESMP
will provide sample guidelines from the World Bank Pollution Abatement
Handbook on potential activities. The expected potential environmental
and social impacts that were identified and addressed in the ESMP are
related to dust generation during construction, odors' emission, increase
of noise and road traffic, and attraction of people to the neighboring
villages.
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
-3 -



II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Longer term impacts will depend on the kinds of economic activities
carried out in the FZ. Given the broad range of potential activities and
the level with which they may intensify in the area, such as food and fish
processing, electronics/assembly, cotton spinning, and wood furniture
making, unmanaged growth and poor management could lead to irreversible
damage.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The National Environment Agency (NEA) has been designated to monitor, in
close coordination with the GIPFZA, the Project's overall impact on the
environment. Central to this assignment is the safeguarding of
environmental and social concerns. A Memorandum of Understanding will be
signed between the NEA and GIPFZA to state clearly the role of NEA during
the project processing cycle and the relationships of the agency with
GIPFZA. This role will lie in assessing, controlling, and enforcing that
all activities related to the Gateway Project are environmentally and
socially sound. To this effect, the NEA will require the capacity to
review all proposed activities, assess all potential environmental and
social impacts, liaise and coordinate with other authorities with
responsibilities in the relevant areas and subjects, and issue specific
measures to promoters of proposed activities to prevent or reduce negative
impacts. Furthermore, it will require the capacity to monitor the effects
of on-going activities and the effectiveness of the ESMP.
Another basic principle in the ESMP is that of having the polluter pay for
environmental and social degradation or problems the activities may cause.
This includes not only the off-setting, remedying, or prevention of
negative impacts but also to contribute to whatever is required to
analyze, study, and monitor possible impacts on the natural and social
environment.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Gambian Government is strongly committed to protecting its
environment. During the preparation phase of the Gateway Project, several
workshops were held to present and discuss with all stakeholders the
findings of the preparation studies. In order to ensure a friendly
environmentally development of the FZ, a Memorandum of Understanding has
been passed and signed between GIPFZA and the NEA on January 4, 2002. As
part of the MOU, NEA is to provide GIPFZA with technical advise especially
with: (i) prior review of any proposed investment in the FZ to determine
if they are covered in the ESMP, (ii) requirement of EIA and EMP for
activities not covered in ESMP, (iii) coordination of the implementation
of the ESMP, subsequent EIAs and EMPs, and (iv) permanent monitoring of
the compliance with the recommendations detailed in these documents.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The project preparation studies (feasibility study, engineering design,
Environment Impact Assessment) have been supervised by a Project Task
Force Committee housed in the DOSTIE that includes representatives from
(i) governmental agencies (DOSTIE, NEA, GCAA, DOSFEA); (ii) public
- 4 -



enterprises (GPA, GAMTEL); and (iii) the private sector (Chamber of
Commerce, Jimpex). The task force has discussed and finalized the terms of
reference for these studies, and has participated in the finalization of
the project design, the contents of each project component, project
phasing, financing, the triggers, and performance indicators.
As part of project preparation, 120 participants from both the public and
private sectors gathered at a first public seminar in April 1999 to
present Government strategy towards the development of Free Zones in the
Gambia. A second workshop was held in June 2000 to present the main
findings of the updated feasibility study carried out in 1994 and to reach
consensus on the Project's rationale and design.
Project design also integrates the concerns and prospects of the local and
foreign private sector in The Gambia through several meetings of the
Project Team with this sector during preparation missions. The Project
will provide the infrastructure to facilitate investment and a competitive
incentive package, as well as the reforms that will be implemented in the
port and airport, and the creation of the one-stop shop will streamline
trade and enterprise creation, thereby responding to the issues raised by
investors. In regard to the investors' other concern - high interest rates
- the Project will work in close coordination with the IMF Program.
Finally, given the sensitive nature of environment in The Gambia, the
Project has been designed in close coordination with both the National
Environment Agency and the Department for Forestry and Natural Parks, and
addresses the concerns of these departments.
The ESMP has indicated that there are no major social issues associated
with the development of the airport Free Zone site. Social development
outcomes, mainly increased employment, will be implemented through the
contractors, developers, and investors. Preferences for local employment
are generally expressed in contract documents and agreements with the
developers.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              8/15/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          9/6/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop           9/5/2001
-5-



Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        9/5/2001        12/26/2001
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Michel Audige   02/04/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
02/04/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Nina Chee/Person/World Bank      02/04/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     02/04/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard      02/04/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



