Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23364-GM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.4 MILLION (US$16 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
GATEWAY PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
GATEWAY PROGRAM
December 20, 2001
Transport Sector
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2001)
Currency Unit = Dalasi (GMD)
I GMD = US$0.0600
US$1 = 16.7 GMD
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CED                Customs and Excise Department
DOSFEA             Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
DOSTIE             Department of State for Trade, Industry and Employment
EIA                Environmental Impact Assessment
ESMP               Environmental and Social Management Plan
EMP                Environmental Management Plan
EPZ                Export Processing Zone
ERSO               Economic Reform Support Operation
FEZ                Free Economic Zone
GAMTEL             Gambia Telecommunications Company
GCAA               Gambia Civil Aviation Authority
GDA                Gambia Divestiture Agency
GIA                Gambia International Airlines
GIPFZA             Gambia Investment Promotion & Free Zones Agency
GOG                Government of The Gambia
GPA                Gambia Ports Authority
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IECC               International Express Carriers' Conference
IPC                Investment Promotion Center
NEA                National Environment Agency
PSD                Private Sector Development
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
TA                 Technical Assistance
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo
Country Director:     John McIntire
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Manager:         Michel Audige



THE GAMBIA
GATEWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A.    Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                          2
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                     2
2. Project development objective                                           2
3. Key performance indicators                                              3
B.    Strategic Context                                                          3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans      11
C.    Program and Project Description Summary                                   13
1. Project components                                                     13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project          15
3. Benefits and target population                                         16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                          16
D.    Project Rationale                                                         17
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies  18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                    18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                       19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            20
E.    Summary Project Analysis                                                  21
1. Economic                                                               21
2. Financial                                                              21
3. Technical                                                              22
4. Institutional                                                          22
5. Environmental                                                          24
6. Social                                                                 26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                     27
F.    Sustainability and Risks                                                  28
1. Sustainability                                                         28
2. Critical risks                                                         29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         29
G.    Main Credit Conditions                                                    30
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                30
2. Other                                                                  30
H.    Readiness for Implementation                                              30
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies                                             31



Annexes
Annex 1:    Project Design Summary                                           32
Annex 2:    Detailed Project Description                                     37
Annex 3:    Estimated Project Costs                                          43
Annex 4:    Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                    44
Annex 5:    Financial Summary - Project Components by Year                   51
Annex 6:    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                        53
Annex 7:    Project Processing Schedule                                      63
Annex 8:    Documents in the Project File                                    64
Annex 9:    Statement of Loans and Credits                                   65
Annex 10:   Country at a Glance                                              67
Annex 11:   Letter of Strategic Development Policy                           69
Annex 12:   Social and Environmental Analysis                                 73
Annex 13:   Implementation Schedule                                          80
Annex 14:   GIPFZA budget forecasts 2002-2006                                 83
MAP: IBRD 31560
iv



THE GAMBIA
GATEWAY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTTR
Date: December 20, 2001                          Team Leader: Michel Audige
Country Manager/Director: John Mclntire          Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: P057394                              Sector(s): MT - Trade Policy Reform
Lending Instrument:                               Theme(s): Private Sector
Adaptable Program Lending (APL)                  Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA             Others      Total    Commitme     Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m         nt         Date
Date     __ _ _ _ _
APL 1
Loan/
Credit    16.00  88.3      2.13       18.13   04/30/2002  04/30/2007  Government of The Gambia
APL 2
Loan/
Credit    12.00  85.7      2.00       14.00
Total        28.00            4.13       32.13
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit   (] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For LoansiCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 16.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):                                     Local         Foreign        Total
Source       BORROWER                                         2.13           0.00          2.13
IDA                                              4.89          11.11         16.00
Total:                                                        7.02          11.11         18.13
Borrower: GOV. OF THE GAMBIA
Responsible agency: DOSTIE
Department of State for Trade, Industry and Employment
Address: Independence Drive, Banjul, The Gambia
Contact Person: Yusupha Kah, Permanent Secretary, DOSTIE
Tel: (220) 22 83 92      Fax: (220) 22 77 56        Email: pstiegqanet.gm
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY          2002      2003       2004      2005       2006      2007
Annual         1.92      5.44      5.60       2.24      0.48       0.32
Cumulative      1.92       7.36     12.96      15.20     15.68         16
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2002      Expected closing date: 04/30/2007



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Gambia Gateway Project (hereafter referred to as "the Project") intends to enable The
Gambia to establish itself as a globally competitive export and processing center. The Project is
a key component of the Government's strategy - as stated in its Letter of Strategic
Development Policy - for achieving broad-based, export-oriented, and sustained growth (see
Section B). The Program will be implemented in phases through an Adaptable Program
Lending (APL) instrument. This lending instrument was selected for the following reasons:
(i) the clear need to progressively build a capacity in The Gambia for trade promotion; (ii) the
phased sequence of the investment part of the project; and (iii) the long-term commitment of the
Government to implementing the Gateway Project. The APL will be implemented in two
phases:
Phase 1 (APL1) will lay the physical and operational foundations for establishing The Gambia
as a credible player in the world trade arena. This will be accomplished by creating a favorable
business environment, promoting private investment, and by launching an operational Free
Zone (FZ) adjacent to the airport. At the same time, this phase will develop a long-term
marketing and operational strategy that will reinforce FZ activities with the country's economy
and exploit its comparative advantage.
Phase 2 (APL2) will consolidate the FZ functions and financing, and secure managerial and
financial autonomy for The Gambia Investment and Free Zones Agency (GIPFZA). This phase
will also deepen the production linkages of the FZ with the local economy, and continue the
pursuit of The Gambia's competitiveness in the global market, thereby extending and sustaining
the Project's income and employment benefits. Phase 2 will focus particularly on the population
living along the Gambia River by improving river navigation. This allows the transportation of
horticultural and agricultural products into other potential Free Zones, which may develop
under the terms of the Free Zone Act of 2001. Phase 2 will also concentrate on roads and rural
transport in order to facilitate exchange of goods and products between agricultural production
centers and the potential additional Free Zones. However, the Project will finance the
development of only one Free Trade Zone - that of the airport
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development goal of Phase 1 is to lay the foundation for expanded private investment
export-oriented production and employment, through the establishment of the Free Zone and an
improved institutional environment. This objective will be achieved by:
* Establishing a self-sustaining Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency
(GIPFZA)
* Marketing and facilitating local and foreign investments in well-targeted economic sectors
* Developing a 10 ha. pilot Free Zone (FZ) at the airport
* Promoting privately financed and operated FZ-related businesses, including teleport
services
2



* Helping the government to implement its divestiture strategy
* Mitigating any social and/or environmental impacts that could result from project
implementation
* Preparing the APL 2, including a better interface between the FZs and the population along
the Gambia River.
This goal will also be achieved by supporting on-going efforts from donors in the following
fields:
* Building business and technical skills among private and public sector actors
* Facilitating administrative procedures for private enterprise creation, investment, and
operations in tourism, trade services, and agriculture sub-sectors
* Modernizing ports and airport services and streamlining customs clearance procedures.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following performance indicators will measure achievement of the Project's development
objectives:
Private investment promotion
* The number of licenses delivered by GIPFZA during the period 2002-2006
* Creating at least twenty new firms by 2006
Export-oriented production
* Achieving annual ton and value targets for the FZs
Employment creation
* Creating at least 4,000 - direct and indirect - new jobs by 2006
Improved institutional environment
* Reducing average process time to create new enterprises to four weeks
* Reducing average customs clearance time for FZ-related cargoes to one day
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-131        Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/10/98
The Gambia badly needs projects that fight poverty by creating employment. The Gambia
Gateway Project complements the Bank's other programs that focus on capacity building,
health, and education by creating employment through new economic activities and private
sector development. Although the Gateway Project is a "high case" lending scenario project, it
is a cornerstone in the overall strategy to alleviate poverty and attain sustainable growth levels.
The Project is fully consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for The Gambia,
which defines poverty reduction as its central goal. Within its overall strategic objective of
3



poverty reduction, the CAS defines a two-pronged strategy: (i) more rapid, broad-based, export-
oriented sustained growth; and (ii) social sustainability. There are four operational sub-areas
under the first strategic area: (a) macro-economic stability, (b) private sector development,
(c) supporting infrastructure, and (d) rural development. In its analysis of economic
opportunities, the CAS underlines The Gambia's latent comparative advantage as a potential
"Gateway" center for transshipment and export processing in West Africa.
In December 2000, the IDA Board of Directors discussed the Gambia Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP; IDA/SECM2000-669), and declared jointly with the IMF
Board that the Government had become eligible for participation in the Enhanced Heavily
Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Initiative. The full PRSP is expected in Spring 2002; one year
into its implementation a progress report will be the trigger to reach the HIPC completion point.
The Gateway Project cuts across the CAS's four operational sub-areas for export-oriented,
sustained growth, with particular emphasis on private sector development and supporting
infrastructure. The Project will also touch on rural development issues, since it will focus on
strengthening linkages with potential export markets of agricultural products. The proposed
Project is considered a cornerstone of the CAS, which includes a mix of macroeconomic
reforms and programs that nurture the development of the private sector. It will be
complemented by, among others, (i) the proposed Economic Reform Support Operation
(ERSO) to support domestic debt reduction, trade liberalization, the broadening of the
divestiture program, and the management of public expenditures; (ii) the recently approved
Capacity-Building for Economic Management Project (CBEMP), which strengthens institutions
involved with revenue and customs and income taxes; (iii) the Energy and Water Infrastructure
Project, which pilots rural infrastructure services; and (iv) the Rural Sector Support Project,
which provides services in support of expanded production of high-value agricultural products
for tourist and export markets.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Macroeconomic setting
From 1986 to 1993, The Gambia had a well-managed economy, establishing a solid track
record on policy reforms aimed at stabilization. However, a series of adverse external shocks
between 1993-96 led to an economic slowdown and loss of per capita income. The reinforced
border control by Senegal in 1993, the CFA franc devaluation in 1994, and the political
uncertainty in the aftermath of the July 1994 military coup significantly damaged the re-export
trade in The Gambia, the main source of foreign exchange and government revenues, and
affected private sector confidence in investing in The Gambia.
The completion of presidential and legislative elections in 1997 considerably reduced the
country's political isolation and improved its economic prospects. The Government took a
number of measures to restore economic stability and began to normalize relations with donors.
GDP growth in 1999 amounted to 5.6 percent after several years of stagnation. On March 31,
1998, IDA's Board approved its first credit to the country (health sector) after a hiatus of four
years. On June 29, 1998, the IMF Board approved a PRGF program.
4



Given a population growth rate of about 3 percent per annum, the 5 percent average annual
GDP growth during the last decade has not been enough to significantly reduce poverty levels.
It is estimated that an annual GDP growth rate of 8-10 percent would be required for a
significant poverty reduction. In order to achieve the level of economic activity needed to reach
the targeted growth rate, The Gambia must consciously develop and consolidate its
"competitive advantages" and cater to export markets.
Potentialfor export-oriented growth
The Gambian economy has long been primed by the re-export trade, groundnut exports, and
tourist industry. On average, the re-export sector has accounted for about 15 percent of GDP, 20
percent of fiscal revenue, and 85 percent of all exports. The country has traditionally been a
magnet for traders in the immediate sub-region for re-exported commodities, as well as for
nontraditional exports. The Port of Banjul has served as an entrepot for re-export to peripheral
countries for a limited number of products, such as textiles, vehicle, rice, tea, and sugar.
The Gambia is a member of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS),
which should increasingly facilitate intra-regional trade. It has reciprocal trade agreements with
the United Kingdom and Senegal. Because of its least-developed- country status, The Gambia
has preferential access to markets because of the Generalized System of Preference (GSP) and
the special provisions under various Uruguay Round Agreements. Its relative proximity to
major regional markets of Europe and North America offers a major comparative advantage
over East Africa for exports to these markets. The Gambia is one of only three LDCs certified
by the European Union to export its fish products to Europe.
The Gambia's tourist industry has been the fastest growing sector in the economy. With limited
state support, the industry has grown at an average rate of 4 percent per annum and has been a
significant source of national income (12 percent of GDP). The country has a wide range of
historical and natural tourist attractions. The number of tourists in 2000 is estimated to have
been 125,000, mainly from Germany, Scandinavia and the UK, with growing potential from
Eastern Europe and "roots-based" tourists from the U.S. market. This is complemented by a
steady flow of visitors throughout the year for business and international organizations
attending conferences.
A comprehensive review of The Gambia's potential for export-oriented growth was carried out
in 1994, and was recently updated by International Development Ireland, Ltd., Jebel Ali Free
Zone Authority, and Sahel Invest Management International ("Consulting Services for the
Gambia Free Zone Development Strategy," July 2000). This strategy noted that the agribusiness
(primarily fish and agricultural products) and the tourism sectors have the potential for
generating long-term exports and foreign exchange earnings. The Gambia is also well
positioned to build on its traditional trading and tourist activities to exploit new markets related
to telecommunications and spin-off "cluster" developments. Although the private sector is
small, it is growing and has the potential to expand rapidly. The strategy also noted that,
although The Gambia should build on its traditional role as a regional center for trade and
services, it cannot continue to depend heavily on transit trade. This is because the application of
5



WTO rules will progressively reduce the income potential from regional duties, which the
country now collects through re-export trade transactions.
The strategy presents a clear vision for export-based growth in which The Gambia sets up an
environment conducive to building internationally competitive clusters around the economy's
key strengths: (i) the tourism industry; (ii) the trade and services economy; and
(iii) agribusiness. Focused development of tourism will provide a catalyst for spin-off
competitive and value-added industries. It will also promote the development of the airport,
critical air-links, and therefore support the growth of The Gambia as an international trade and
business center. The Gambia can also reduce its current dependency on re-export services and
capitalize on emerging value-added markets, such as telecommunications and "teleport"
services, for both developed and regional markets. The proposed strategy will also stimulate
local industries with export potential, such as fish, fresh vegetables, and flowers. Finally, with
the establishment of a favorable business environment and dependable infrastructure, future
opportunities exist for minor processing, electronics assembly, and break bulk operations.
Although European countries - namely, UK, Germany, and the Netherlands - constitute the
main target markets for The Gambia, the development of its trade will be beneficial at the
regional level, allowing neighboring countries - Senegal, Mali, and Guinea - to export part of
their production through the Gambian Gateway. The development of tourism and re-export
activities will also provide an opportunity for entrepreneurs in neighboring countries to promote
handicraft and traditional garments. The Gateway will also pave the way for an increased
partnership between The Gambia and Senegal in the maritime transport sector, since a major
part of Gambian trade will have to be channeled through the international port of Dakar to
benefit from improved shipping services to and from Europe.
Key constraints and challenges
The Gambia faces the same challenges as most African countries in attracting private
investment and trade - namely, the perceived lack of a stable and investor-friendly
environment; limited access to markets and resources; and poor and expensive infrastructure
services. Some of these constraints are summarized below.
Institutional framework for trade promotion. Previous initiatives in promoting private
investment were limited in scope because of the weak institutional capacity and limited budgets
in the two responsible governmental agencies - Departments of State for Trade Industry and
Employment (DOSTIE), and for Finance and Economic Affairs (DOSFEA). Although updated
in June 1999, the Gambia Government Investment Policy was inadequate because it did not
provide incentives for investment. These issues have now been addressed in the Gambia
Investment Promotion and Free Zones Acts of 2001, which have established the Gambia
Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency (GIPFZA) and provided incentives for private
investments. As stated in the Acts, the objectives of the GIPFZA are to promote The Gambia as
a trade Gateway and investment haven and to (i) provide an attractive business environment and
incentives for business activity in Gambia; (ii) be a "one-stop-shop" for investors; (iii) attract,
promote, and facilitate investments; and (iv) advise the Government on investment policy and
related matters.
6



Financial sector. Financial sector interest in commercial or investment ventures is limited and
offers few products and services. Commercial banks give priority to short-term trade finance
and short-term treasury bills. Private sector development in this environment is difficult.
Considerable efforts are needed to reduce interest rates and strengthen the judicial system,
especially in terms of collateral recovery, in order to create opportunities for long-term
investments. The prospects of broadening the scope of investments allowed by law for the
social security fund, and creating long-term bond markets should be explored to make long-
term financing available for private sector development.
Private sector development. The private sector in The Gambia is very thin and mostly limited
to informal trading. As noted above, this informal sector has limited long-term growth potential
because of the current trends of WTO regulations. Since 1994, the tourist industry has been
hampered by the lack of a strategy to attract new and up-scale tourist markets. In addition, only
a few tour operators have dominated this industry.
Public services. The competitiveness and performance of the public sector has been generally
poor, with public enterprises benefiting from their monopolistic position and their imposition of
high tariffs. This is particularly true for the National Telecommunication company (Gamtel),
the National Water and Electricity Company (NAVWEC), and the Gambia Port Authority (GPA).
The customs services fall short of the international standards, and current clearance procedures
- although better than in neighboring countries - are cumbersome.
Government strategy
Overall vision and strategy. The Gambia Incorporated Vision 2020 and the Government
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the period 1998-2000 outlined visions of transforming the
country from one of the least developed countries in Sub-Saharan Africa into a middle-income
country with a vibrant private sector open to the world. This goal would be attained by
expanding and deepening a fast-growing tourism sector, increasing productivity and
diversification in agriculture and manufacturing, and developing internationally linked services
- in particular, a Free Zone based on an improved port and airport and a modern financial
center. The strategy is to be implemented on three fronts:
Public sector reform
The Government strategy for the public sector focuses on:
* Improving the structure of government revenue and expenditure, enabling a reduction in
domestic debt and import tariffs
*  Strengthening the institutional capacity of the public administration
* Reforming public administration to foster good governance and efficiency in providing
public services
*  Supporting public enterprise reform and divestiture
* Reforming the energy sector.
7



Private sector promotion
The Government strategy for the private sector concentrates on:
*  Deepening structural reforms to encourage private sector development and attract foreign
investment
*  Enhancing the incentive system for the development of the private sector
*  Streamlining business regulations and improving the legal and judicial environment for
economic activities
* Modernizing legislation affecting corporations, contracts, partnerships, and business
registration
* Improving the Customs & Excise Department and reducing - in both number and level - the
multitude of existing tariffs
*  Strengthening the financial sector with stronger norms for the commercial banks, and
developing new rural credit institutions and linkages to the regional stock market.
Reputation. Underpinning this development strategy is a concerted effort to establish a positive
image within the international trade and export community. Given the future limitations on re-
export activities, the approach will be to favor diversification and help bring about a new set of
comparative advantages. These comparative advantages will focus on "niche" value-added
activities that link The Gambia's economic potential for global market opportunities, and that
provide lasting income and employment benefits. This requires a long-term perspective to lay a
solid foundation for future growth, and will involve three fundamental objectives: (i) the
establishment of The Gambia as a reliable center for communications services, through the
creation of a "teleport"; (ii) the development of tourism-related "clusters" that exploit spin-offs
from a more focused tourism expansion strategy; and (iii) the attraction of investments in low-
cost manufacturing for regional markets.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In order to improve the performance of its key parastatals, the Government signed six
Memoranda of Understanding at end-March 1998 with major public companies in transport,
energy, water, and telecommunications. The Project will therefore include a dedicated technical
assistance component to carry out an independent assessment of the sub-sectors mentioned
above, except for NAWEC, which is currently being assessed. As a follow-up of the
independent assessment, the Project will assist the divestiture agency to carry out the
Government strategy, including the mobilization of consultants to prepare and conclude
privatization transactions publicly and openly. In addition, to safeguard public interest after the
completion of the divestiture program, the Project will also provide assistance to respond to
capacity building and training needs of the multi-sector regulatory agency.
After extensive consultation with all stakeholders, both public and private, the Government
prepared the Gambia Divestiture Act 2001, which was approved by the National Assembly and
the President in March 2001. A divestiture agency has been created with the following duties:
(i) plan, manage, and implement the State's divestiture program in respect to public enterprises
and public interest; (ii) develop criteria for selecting public interests to be divested; (iii) be
responsible for preparing public enterprises and public interest for divestiture; (iv) ensure
consistency in procedures for divestiture; and (v) evaluate all State divestitures.
8



The Gambia Gateway Project is a key component in the Govermnent's drive to reshape its
economy based on an outward-looking and export-oriented strategy. As the first phase in this
endeavor, the Project will address several key issues to lay the groundwork for future
consolidation and expansion. These will be based on several guiding principles: (i) the need to
have a long-term vision and constantly update strategy, and establish credibility and
competitiveness in the international marketplace; (ii) the critical importance of the participation
of the private sector in the establishment of the Free Zones, (iii) the complementary and
facilitating role of the public sector, and (iv) the development of the local private sector, as well
as the strengthening of local capacity to meet international trade standards. A summary of the
main issues addressed by the Project and the strategic choices at hand follows.
Building institutional capacity to promote private sector development
The development and pursuit of a long-term competitive strategy requires an independent
agency designed for this purpose. To this end, the Project will support the establishment of the
Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency (GIPFZA). The establishment of
GIPFZA was a precondition for project appraisal. Over the long term, GIPFZA will need to be
financially self-sustaining. However, since it is a new entity and its role will be to generate
revenue through private investment in the FZ, this will not be possible at first. Therefore, during
Phase 1, its operating costs will be supported by the Project, with a requirement that it becomes
financially self-sufficient at the end of this phase.
Improving energy and telecommunication services
The Project, in close coordination with the proposed Bank FY03 Energy Infrastructure project,
will support the Government in opening the energy sector to private participation. Competition
will be promoted between energy services providers within the Free Zones, including
independent power producers. Technical assistance will be provided under the Project to
implement "build-operate-transfer" schemes (BOTs). In order to enable the development of
teleport activities within the Free Zones, the Project will support the Government in setting up a
new institutional framework, ensuring competition among telecommunication services
providers within the Free Zones.
Improving transport services
Under the proposed Government Divestiture Program, the private sector will participate in port
operations, particularly in container handling operations, and maintenance services, while the
Gambia Port Authority (GPA) will assume the role of a "landlord" port authority with the
responsibility of monitoring and regulating the participation of the private sector in
infrastructure investments and in operations. The Project will provide technical expertise to
build capacity in this regard.
The Project will help improve the competitiveness of port and airport services to approach
internationally acceptable levels of operational efficiency. For this purpose, it will assist in
(i) separating commercial services from regulatory functions, i.e., shifting from a "service" port
9



to a "landlord" port scheme; (ii) opening cargo handling services to private competition;
(iii) contracting out warehousing and auxiliary activities, such as security and maintenance, to
the private sector; and (iv) concessioning airport management to the private sector.
Trade and transport facilitation
The key to private sector-led export growth lies in creating an efficient trade infrastructure and
achieving low-cost, frequent, and reliable transport to end markets. This involves assuring on-
time deliveries and adequate equipment maintenance services, which can be accomplished by
creating strong backward linkages to raw material and production sources, to packaging, and to
on-time shipping. Competitive access to multiple-end markets via diverse distribution channels
is also essential. One way to improve a country's competitiveness in international trade is to
increase the quality of international transport while minimizing associated costs. In addition, it
is essential to reduce transaction costs by adapting commercial practices to international
standards and by removing unnecessary trade barriers within the economic, social, and political
context of that country.
There is therefore a need for trade facilitation, which involves removing barriers through
simplification, standardization, and harmonization of procedures, information flows, and
documentation. The Project will include a sub-component dealing with facilitation, using the
World Bank/IECC (International Express Carriers' Conference) Facilitation Audit Methodology
(as described in Trade and Transport Facilitation - An Audit Methodology by John Raven,
2000). This audit will examine and evaluate obstacles to cross-frontier movement of a routine
consigmnent and its associated payment. Experience shows that customs form the hard core of
most procedural problems. In many countries, operational inefficiency and outdated regulations
are aggravated and perpetuated by dishonesty.
Customs reforms
The development of Free Zones will require more efficient customs services. The Project will
assist the Customs & Excise Department (CED) to become a facilitator, rather than a source of
red tape, through the reorganization of their services, enhancement of their procedures, and
improving efficiency within the Free Zone's context. Under the proposed Project, the Customs
& Excise Department will develop and implement a far-reaching program of re-engineering its
corporate structure. The program will ensure that customs transactions are computerized,
making it less reliant on human interventions. Processes and procedures will be re-engineered to
bring the quality of customs services up to international standards. In particular, the Project will
provide support for:
* Streamlining customs procedures and reducing clearance time for both export and import
cargo
* Reviewing the current legislation to determine necessary amendments and revisions
* Designing a modern information management system
* Establishing a valuation database in compliance with the WTO valuation code and risk
management systems
10



* Training and capacity building on facilitation procedures designed specifically for Free
Zone enterprises
* Initiating a multi-year work program designed to achieve, in the medium termn, an ISO 9000
certification.
The first step in accomplishing this will be implementing a management audit based on the
principles of Quality Management Systems (QMS). The QMS principles are internationally
accepted and can be certified using International Standards Organization certification
procedures (ISO 9000). By implementing the QMS audit recommendations at the Customs and
Excise Department, and eventually obtaining certification, The Gambia will reassure potential
investors of the viability of doing business in the country.
Improving the financial andjudicial environment
Two issues not directly addressed by the Project, but critical to its success, are (i) the high
interest lending rate and poor access of the private sector to credit, and (ii) the reform of the
judicial system, especially regarding the collateral recovery system. The first issue is being
addressed through the on-going macro stabilization program supported under a PRGF with the
IMF, and the second through the UNDP-financed National Program.
Export guarantees or private sector finance
Based on Bank experience in similar projects, the management of these financial instruments
would be difficult in the Gambian environment, and run counter to the principal of establishing
long-term financial credibility for international investors. The Project therefore does not include
export guarantee schemes nor special facilities to finance new enterprises. The impact of the
Project on the development of the local private sector will result mainly from the capacity
building activities. To this end, consulting services will be recruited to assist the GIPFZA to
achieve market development and long-term competitiveness through market surveys and by
identifying Free Zone developers and/or operators. Technical assistance will also provide on-
the-job training for future Zone operators, and will target skills for effectively competing in the
international market place. These would include quality management and control processes,
ISO certification concepts, and information management about US and European markets'
access regulations for products originating from the ACP countries.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Project has been designed under an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) structure that will
be implemented in two phases:
APL 1 will establish the institutional and physical foundations for achieving an export-oriented
growth strategy. This will include building the capacity for The Gambia to achieve a
competitive position in the global trade and export community. It will have five components:
(i) Physical Investment for a Free Zone at the airport; (ii) Establishment of an Investment
Promotion and Free Zone Agency (GIPFZA); (iii) Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency;
11



(iv) Capacity-building; and (v) Project Management and Environmental and Social
Management Plan.
APL 2 will consolidate the FZ functions and financing, and deepen the production linkages with
the local economy. It will emphasize maintaining and continuously improving The Gambia's
competitive position in the global markets and maximizing its income and employment benefits
over time.
Performance indicators
The outcome of the Project at the end of Phase I will be assessed using the following indicators:
(i) number of licenses delivered by GIPFZA during the period 2002-2006; (ii) creating at least 20
new firms by 2006; (iii) achieving annual ton and value targets for the Free Zones; (iv) creating
at least 4,000 - direct and indirect - new jobs by 2006; (v) reducing the average process time of
creating new enterprises to four weeks; and (vi) reducing the average customs clearance time for
Free Zone-related cargos to one day.
The timeframe for the expected progress of the performance indicators is detailed in the table
below:
Key performance
indicators.                2002       2003        2004        2005       2006
1. Number of licenses         5           5          5           5           5
2. Number of new firms
created                       3           7           8          7           5
3. Job creations cumulated
(direct and indirect)      100        300       1 000       2 500       4 000
4. Average process time to
create a new enterprise  6 weeks   5 weeks    4 weeks     4 weeks     4 weeks
5. Average clearance time  2 days    2 days      2 days       I day      1 day
6. Tonnage and value
from FZs                 Statistics  Statistics  Statistics  Statistics  Statistics
Triggers for APL 2
The performance triggers for passing from APL 1 to APL 2 reflect the basic development
objective and expected outcomes of the first phase, which emphasizes laying a solid foundation
for sustainable future growth through concrete market-based achievements, and attaining self-
financing of GIPFZA and environmentally and socially sound development. They are:
1.   Implementation of APL1, including full compliance with Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP), assessed as satisfactory by IDA, based on the project outcome.
2.   GOG divestiture plans for public enterprises related to transport and telecommunication,
listed under Tracks I and II, are implemented.
3.   Phase I of the Trade and Transport Audit recommendations implemented.
12



4.   Phase I of the Customs &     Excise Department Quality Audit recommendations
implemented.
5.   At least 20 firms created under incentives and status of the Gambia Investment Promotion
and Free Zones Acts 2001.
6.   At least 4,000 direct or indirect jobs created through the Gambia Investment Promotion
and Free Zones Acts 2001.
7.    GIPFZA operating costs covered by its revenues.
In regard to triggers 3 and 4, two audits will be carried out in the areas of trade and transport and
customs respectively. The action plan resulting from these audits will constitute Phase I referred
to in triggers 3 and 4, to be implemented within a three-year period.
For triggers 5 and 6, the Association shall consider 80 percent compliance as fully satisfactory.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative           Bank-      % of
Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
Components            Sector         (US$M)     Total   (US$M)    financing
A. Physical Investment for a new
Free Zone at the airport     Trade             5.35     29.5     4.31       26.9
B. Establishment of GIPFZA     Trade             5.10     28.1     4.66       29.1
C. Support to the Gambia Divestiture  Institutional
Agency                       Development       1.80      9.9     1.69       10.6
D. Capacity-Building           Institutional
Development       1.23      6.8     1.11        6.9
E. Project Management and ESMP  Other
Environment       0.94      5.2     0.77        4.8
Reimbursement of PPFs                            1.85     10.2      1.85       11.6
Contingencies                                    1.86     10.3     1.61        10.1
Total Project Costs  _               18.13    100.0    16.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                  18.13    100.0    16.00      100.0
Component A: Physical investmentfor a new Free Zone at the airport (US$5.35 million)
This component will establish the physical infrastructure necessary for an operational Free Zone
(FZ) at the airport. It includes (i) infrastructure to enable the Free Zone at the airport, including
common users facilities and utilities; and (ii) consulting services for supervising works.
Component B: Establishment of an Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency - GIPFZA
(US$5.10 million)
This component will establish the GIPFZA as a self-sustaining entity that manages the FZs and
promotes trade and investment. It will include (i) operational support to GIPFZA; (ii) technical
assistance; (iii) consulting services to complete and implement marketing plans and market
surveys; (iv) consulting services for investment promotion; and (v) studies (River-Free Zones
13



Interface, a Trade & Transport facilitation survey, a Quality Management Systems (QMS) Audit
for the Customs & Excise Department).
Component C: Support to The Gambia Divestiture Agency (US$1.80 million)
This component supports the Government agenda for privatization. It will include (i) technical
assistance to support the Government Divestiture Program; (ii) divestiture safeguarding and
monitoring; and (iii) divestiture consensus building through national and international
campaigns.
Component D: Capacity building (US$1.23 million)
This component includes training activities for both the public and the private sectors directly
involved in investment and Free Zone-related businesses. Training will include quality
management and control processes, the ISO certification concept, and information about US and
European markets' access regulations for products originating from ACP countries.
This component also includes training for GDA as well as capacity building for the multi-sector
regulatory agency.
Component E: Project Management and Social/Environmental Management (US$0.94 million)
This component includes funds for (i) overall project management; and (ii) environmental
studies and mitigation measures. The latter have been spelled out in an Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP), which involves two basic activities:
* Periodic environmental and social assessments to ensure environmental and social
sustainability of the Project-funded and of Free Zone developments in general. The ESMP
includes standard requirements and processes for project screening, consultation, assessment,
mitigation, and monitoring of projects and investments made within the Free Zone
jurisdictions. Where applicable, these will result in industry and activity-specific
environmental management plans (EMPs). The Project will also fund an annual assessment
and update of the ESMP, which will enable GIPFZA and NEA to oversee environmental and
social management related to Free Zone operations and development (see paragraph 7.2
below).
* Environmental mitigation measures will include: (i) mitigation measures funded under the
Project related to the development of the airport Free Zone site, and eventually other Free
Zone sites developed under the Free Zones Act of 2001, but not directly financed by the
Project; and (ii) industry and site-specific mitigation measures related to the installations
within the Free Zones. For the latter, the basic principle will be the "polluter pays" for
environmental and social impact mitigation, and the Project will focus on strengthening the
capacity of GIPFZA and NEA to implement standard screening, monitoring, and
enforcement procedures (as described in paragraph 7.2 and Annex 12).
14



Reimbursement of PPFs (US$1.85 million)
During project preparation, the following activities have been financed: (i) consulting services
for The Gambia Free Zones Development Strategy; (ii) consulting services for the Free Zones
detailed engineering study; and (iii) study tours in Ireland and Dubai/Mauritius.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project will support several crucial institutional reforns and address institutional capacity
constraints in governmental agencies that deal with exporters and investors.
Creation of an independent and self-financing Investment Promotion and Free Zone
Management Agency
The Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zones Act 2001 was prepared and finalized during
the preparation phase of the Project. The Act officially creates the Gambia Investment Promotion
and Free Zones Agency (GIPFZA) as a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal, which shall be capable in its corporate name of suing and being sued and doing or
performing all such other things or acts necessary for the proper performance of its function. The
GIPFZA will not only regulate Free Zones-related activities but will also act as a "one-stop-
shop" agency in charge of promoting investment in other key sectors, such as tourism,
agribusiness, and services. The Board of Directors comprises eight members from the private
and public sector, and is currently chaired by the manager of a private consulting firm. The
Project will provide technical assistance and training for the newly created GIPFZA and finance
its operating expenditures during the first years while its cash flow is negative. The financial
self-sustainability of GIPFZA is one of the four proposed triggers to launch APL2.
Increasing private sector participation in transport, energy and telecommunication services
The Project will provide support to the Government strategy of increasing private sector
participation in services, especially in the port and the airport. It will help the Government to
shift the Gambia Ports Authority from a "service" to a "landlord" port with a greater involvement
of the private sector in all industrial and commercial services, such as port cargo handling. The
Project will also support the Government in carrying out its strategy of "liberalized skies" and
assist in the reform of the Gambia Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) to assume its role as a
regulator of air transport, while private sector will be in charge of operations. The Project will
help open the energy and telecommunications sectors to competition by offering international
interests opportunities to invest in those activities. Support to the Government will be channeled
through the component dedicated to the Gambia Divestiture Agency (see details in Annex 2).
Transforming the Customs & Excise Department
The Project will provide technical assistance and other support to modemize the Customs &
Excise Department (CED). This will be done mainly through a management audit of current
administrative procedures and the preparation of a strategic business plan. Using Quality
Management System (QMS) principles, the audit and business plan will focus on establishing the
CED's role as a trade facilitator, and on implementing required changes in regulations,
15



operational procedures, and human resources to achieve the CED's revised role. The advantage
of this approach is that the QMS instituted at CED is certifiable by a third party under ISO 9000,
which is internationally recognized. Once this certification is obtained, it will be extremely
valuable in reassuring potential investors that efficient and transparent procedures exist in The
Gambia, and will reinforce the country's efforts to become competitive in world markets.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed Project will contribute to The Gambia's objective of sustainable poverty reduction
by achieving greater private foreign and domestic investment. The Project will benefit three
target groups: the local population, the private sector, and the GOG. The local population will
benefit from more job opportunities in Banjul's area, as well as improved skills and mobility
within the labor force. By addressing key policies and building institutional capacity, the Project
will lay the groundwork for rapid and sustained economic growth that will benefit a broad
spectrum of the Gambian population.
The private sector will benefit from (i) the removal of major institutional and procedural
constraints that hamper its activities and development; and (ii) a more supportive environment
for investment, including new incentives, new economic activities, lower transaction costs, more
training opportunities, and the availability of ready sites for export processing industries.
For the GOG, the Project is expected to attract a flow of Foreign Direct Investment that will
create direct and indirect new jobs, as well as transfer technology and know-how.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project coordination
In order to provide strategic guidance to implementation agencies during the life of the Project, a
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will be set up. The PCC will include (i) the Permanent
Secretary of DOSTIE; (ii) the Permanent Secretary of DOSFEA; (iii) the Chief Executive of
GIPFZA; and (iv) the Chief Executive of the GDA. The administrative secretariat of the PCC
will be assigned to a project coordinator placed under DOSTIE. The procurement functions will
be delegated to each of the implementation agencies. All the financial management functions of
the Project will be carried out by GIPFZA, while the project coordinator role will be limited to
the general administration of the Project - e.g., monitoring the implementation plan and
reporting. The project coordinator, who will be appointed by DOSTIE, will ensure overall
project coordination and reporting to IDA.
Project implementation
GIPFZA will be in charge of implementing all components related to the Free Zones and
infrastructure development in the new Free Zone at the airport. In addition, it will be responsible
for all studies and training activities related to the Free Zones.
The Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA) will be in charge of implementing the technical
assistance and training component related to the implementation of the Government Divestiture
Program.
16



Bank supervision and M&E process
IDA and GOC will jointly conduct semi-annual project reviews, with the implementing agency
to review the implementation of all components, including the status of procurement and
disbursement. A joint IDA-GOG mid-term review will monitor overall project execution, key
project activities, the project implementation schedule, and supervision plans. They will also
identify implementation issues and develop solutions. Following project completion, scheduled
for October 2006, IDA and GOG will prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Consultants, contractors, and suppliers will be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
The Bank will carry out regular supervision missions to assess the progress in project
implementation. During implementation, a periodic review of the project monitoring indicators
will be done, as well as a periodic evaluation of the triggers, with a view to a timely preparation
of the second phase of the project (APL 2).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several project alternatives were considered:
Alternative 1: Postpone the project
One alternative would be to postpone the project because critical reforms are not yet fully
adopted. In particular, the Government has still not detailed and implemented a comprehensive
agenda to provide cheap and reliable energy and telecommunication services, critical to
successful trade and investment. On the other hand, the Project is designed to be a catalyst for
formulating and implementing these reforms, and further delay would mean lost time in entering
a highly competitive and rapidly changing market, as well as losing employment and income
benefits generated during the first phase.
Alternative 2: Dedicated sector investment project
The second alternative considered was a simple, stand-alone project aimed at creating
employment. However, given the need to build capacity and the Government's long-term
commitment to the Project, this approach is thought to be risky because it would not address the
prerequisite of establishing The Gambia as a credible location for dependable trade and
investment.
Alternative 3: A gradual, long-term approach
The Gateway Program feasibility study recommends a cautious and modest approach in the
creation of the FZs, based on a realistic and practical strategy that coincides with The Gambia's
potential comparative advantages. Based on this, the APL approach is preferred because it allows
phased investments, institutional reforrn, and capacity building over a longer time frame. This
deliberate and focused approach will minimize the Government's investment exposure, while
sending positive signals to potential investors and maximizing leveraged private investment
funds.
17



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
Sector Issue                Project           (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                         Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Environment Management    Project closed - ICR overall    S              S
Capacity Building         assessment is satisfactory.
[Report # 21832 - Feb. 2001]
Capacity Building for Economic Board on July 26, 2001     S              S
Management
Other development agencies
European Union Development  Tourism development
Department
Africa Development Bank   Coastal Zone Management
Kuwait Fund               Banjul-Airport highway
UJNDP                     National Governance Program
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The program design has been modeled on the experience of past similar projects financed by the
Bank (Mauritius, Dominican Republic, and Ghana), as well as the experience gained in
developing Export Processing Zones in countries like Senegal, Kenya, Cameroon, and Namibia.
These experiences have pointed to a number of key lessons learned, which are summarized
below.
Importance of soundpolicy environment
One of the most fundamental lessons learned is that private sector investment projects, including
enclave undertakings such as Export Processing Zones, cannot develop to their full potential
without sound sector policies. Many African Governments (Senegal, Cameroon) failed to
implement Free Zones because of policy-related problems - such as, an unsafe business
environment; cumbersome regulatory procedures; inefficient institutional structures; high cost of
doing business because of poor infrastructure; labor market rigidities; and high minimum
requirements for investment, employment, or infrastructure services (electricity, etc.). In the case
of the Gambia, through an open dialogue with the Government, appropriate policies have been
established to ensure the success of this project, e.g. The Gambia Investment Promotion Act
2001, The Gambia Free Zone Act 2001, and The Gambia Divestiture Act 2001. In addition, the
Agency in charge of promoting investment and Free Zone - related businesses has been
established as well in 2001.
18



Public-private partnerships
Despite these problems, there are a few African EPZ/FPZ success stories, and a number of
lessons emerge from their experiences. The more notable ones are (i) private sector EPZ
development and management must be encouraged; (ii) private sector provision of infrastructure
services should be encouraged; (iii) true public/private sector cooperation should be developed,
and regulatory processes should be streamlined; and (iv) programs should have more competitive
incentive packages without crippling provisions, such as minimum investment requirements.
Building a favorable environment
Based on these lessons, the Project will first concentrate on building a favorable environment for
investment in general and Free Zone development in particular, and will favor private
investments within the Free Zones. The proposed Project is only the first phase of a more
ambitious program. It will therefore keep physical infrastructure investments well focused and
relatively modest in the first stage in order to encourage private developers to finance subsequent
stages. In addition, the Project will streamline regulatory processes for private investors through
the creation of GIPFZA and the "one-stop shop" center.
Building capacity and donor collaboration
Institutional strengthening is widely recognized as the key to achieving sustainability. The record
of institution and capacity building operations has improved in recent years because of greater
participation in project preparation and a greater commitment and ownership of the Borrower.
Nevertheless, The Gambia's institutional capacity is still weak, and in some cases the
Government has been unable to implement its own policies. This situation has been exacerbated
by the project-by-project approach followed by many donors, with each donor having its own
reporting and monitoring requirements, thereby over-extending the scarce human resources in
the public sector.
The Project addresses these weaknesses by reinforcing the public and private sectors in their
revised roles for promoting investment and export. Technical assistance and training of key staff
in related governmental agencies will be a significant component of the Project, representing
about one-third of the total amount of the credit. Once these roles are clearly defined, other
donors can provide more effective assistance within a uniform institutional framework.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since 1994, the GOG has shown a constant and strong commitment to this Project by
undertaking key institutional and infrastructure reforms (regulatory and legal framework,
financial sector reform, trade issues, institutional support for the private sector, labor legislation,
customs, public expenditures program, divestiture program, liberalization process, etc.). This
commitment to the Gateway Project has been recently publicly reiterated by H.E. the President
of the Republic in his State Opening of the National Assembly address, March 9, 2000
(Sessional paper No. 1 of 2000).
19



In addition, project design has been carried out using a participatory approach through various
public seminars well attended by both private and public stakeholders. A one-day Trade Gateway
stakeholders seminar was held in June 2000 that successfully brought together 125 people from
both the public and private sectors. The findings of the draft final report, "Gambia Free Zone
Development Strategy," prepared by International Development Ireland (IDI), were discussed
and approved. In its final report dated July 2000, the consultant took into account all the key
recommendations made during the seminar.
The success of the Gateway Project will depend on the capacity of the Government to implement
adequate sequencing of policies and actions that will enable and stimulate a vibrant private
sector. The following table summarizes the policy commitments to date, as well as those
remaining to be accomplished before effectiveness:
Government Policy Commitments
Accomplished to date                To be accomplished
Gambia Free Zones Act, 2001         Multi-sector Regulatory Act 2001
Gambia Investment Promotion Act 2001  Establishment of a Multi-sector Regulatory Agency
Gambia Divestiture Act, 2001
Establishment of the GIPFZA
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is uniquely placed to assist the Government in developing an export-oriented and "pro-
private" economic environment. This is based on the experience within and outside the region,
including the Ghana Trade Investment Gateway Project, Capacity Building Project For Private
Sector in Cape Verde (IDA-financed), Port and Free Port Development Project in Mauritius,
Industrial Free Zone Development Project in the Dominican Republic, and Private Investment
and Export Development Project in Jamaica (IBRD-financed).
The positive outcome of the on-going Ghana Investment and Trade Gateway Project
demonstrates that Africa has the potential to attract Foreign Direct Investments through a well-
designed policy framework.
The Bank's involvement in The Gambia would ensure coordination between trade sector reform
and the overall economic program. The Gambia Gateway Program will be closely coordinated
with the on-going Capacity Building for Economic Management Project (Credit No. 35550,
approved by the Board on July 26, 2001).
IFC and MIGA have been kept informed of Project preparation. IFC has been approached by the
Project team, and is studying ways in which it can contribute in the form of investment. MIGA
will be approached during project implementation to provide its guarantees and products to
interested developers. These potential contributions relate to the infrastructure that will be
developed by private developers and operators rather than to the components of the proposed
credit.
20



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost benefit NPV=US$9.65 million; ERR = 21.2 % (see Annex 4)
The benefits expected from the Project are threefold: (i) increase in foreign exchange earnings;
(ii) creation of new jobs; and (iii) transfer of technology and know-how. These benefits will
contribute to higher levels of economic growth.
(i) Foreign exchange earnings: Public discussion of FZs emphasizes foreign exchange earnings
derived from the Zones, reflecting the presumption that these earnings are directly relevant to the
host country's welfare. In fact, the foreign exchange earnings of foreign-owned firmns in the FZs
merely constitute transactions between these firms and firms abroad. They therefore have
marginally direct effects on the economic welfare of host country nationals, except for the
money converted into domestic currency to be spent on wages and purchases from the local
economy. On the other hand, the limited sale of Free Zone goods in the local market will save
foreign currency up to 20 percent of the production, as per the GIPFZ Act of 2001. The host
country will receive a net benefit from these purchases and sales, and these benefits have been
quantified in the economic analysis to represent foreign exchange earnings by using value added
of exports.
(ii) Employment generation: It is estimated that about 1,000 direct jobs will be created from 20
firms within 5 years This assumption is reasonable and has been used as the base case scenario.
In 15 years, it is estimated that about 3,000 direct jobs will be created in FZs. A secondary effect
in indirect employment generation is expected, which will result in additional jobs from activities
in the periphery of the FZs, estimated at three times the total jobs created in the FZs.
(iii) Technology transfer: FZs usually involve labor-intensive production and thus promote
appropriate technology development in the host country. This is probably the most important
externality that comes with the presence of the FZs. In the long run, the "learning by doing
mechanism" will have a catalytic effect, spurring gains in managerial practices and notions of
quality control to local middle managers employed by the FZs firms. This is expected to increase
productivity and efficiency in domestic firms that otherwise would not have improved without
the influence of the FZs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The financial evaluation of GIPFZA concludes that, at the end of its first five years of activity,
the revenue of the agency will cover its operating costs with a probability of 97 percent. During
the first five years of its operations, GIPFZA activities will need to be financially supported. To
this end, the Project will provide funds to fill the gap between operating costs and revenues.
The Project's contribution to GIPFZA's operating costs is expected to progressively decrease as
GIPFZA raises its revenues. The level of coverage of the GIPFZA operating costs will decrease
as follows: 98 percent in 2002, 70 percent in 2003, 45 percent in 2004, 20 percent in 2005, and 0
percent in 2006 when self-sustainability is achieved. The Project's overall contribution to
21



GIPFZA's operating costs will ultimately amount to 40 percent of the operating costs during the
period - the balance being financed by the operating revenues of GIPFZA.
In order to assess the uncertainty about future revenues of the GIPFZA, a sensitivity analysis
using a risk management software has been carried out, taking into account assumptions about
the following major parameters: (i) number of new licenses issued each project year; (ii) number
of licenses delivered; (iii) number of hectares leased; and (iv) rates applied to licenses, and
renting of space within the FZ. (see Annex 14 for details).
Fiscal Impact:
Tax holidays for Free Zone activities will concern only new activities that would not have come
about without the Free Zones development. Therefore, it cannot be considered a decrease of the
Government's fiscal revenue.
3. Technical:
A detailed engineering design study for infrastructure to be financed under the Project was
launched in October 2000. It includes architectural aspects, estimated costs and schedule for the
works, as well as bidding documents. GIPFZA will clear engineering designs for further
infrastructure to be financed and built by private investors.
Technical assistance for each beneficiary group will be tailored to respond to an operational
diagnostic carried out for each agency. These studies will articulate the agency's mission, in
terms of dealing with foreign investors, the constraints it faces, and the action plan being
recommended to address those constraints.
4. Institutional:
The Project will address the institutional weaknesses of the past by creating an independent
agency devoted not only to promoting trade, but also private investment. This dual role will
provide an operational framework for linking investments in Gambia's export and tourism trade
to the development of the local economy.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Agency            Responsibility
GIPFZA             This agency will be in charge of implementing all components related to
the Free Zones and infrastructure development in these Zones, and will
be also in charge of the studies and training activities related to the Free
Zones.
Divestiture Agency  This agency will be in charge of implementing the technical assistance
component related to the implementation of the Government's Divestiture
Program, as well as part of the training activities included in the capacity
building component.
22



4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will coordinate the Project. The administrative
secretariat of the PCC will be assigned to a project coordinator placed under DOSTIE. GIPFZA
will be responsible for the overall financial management, while the project coordinator role will
be limited to the general administration of the Project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement functions will be delegated to each of the implementation agencies. The
procurement issues that may negatively affect the ability of the two agencies to carry out the
procurement process are (i) inadequate policies and procedures (regulations/codes); (ii) lack of
procurement organization; (iii) insufficient procurement staff; and (iv) lack of overseer or
adjudicator to assure that procurement is performed effectively. Measures to mitigate these
issues have been taken in setting up the procurement processes for the Project, including the use
of an independent agency to procure works on behalf of GIPFZA (Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management assessment for the Gambia Gateway Project was conducted based on
the Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial Management Sector Board, dated June 30, 2001.
The assessment intends to determine whether the entities responsible for the implementation of
the Gambia Gateway Project have acceptable financial management arrangements as required by
the Bank's policies, including the entities' systems of accounting, reporting, auditing, and
internal controls.
The financial management arrangements of The Gambia Gateway Project establish that the
activities will be implemented essentially by two recently created entities: (i) The Gambia
Investment Promotion and Free Zones Agency (GIPFZA); and (ii) The Gambia Divestiture
Agency (GDA). Since most of the activities will be implemented by GIPFZA - and the activities
to be implemented by GDA are limited in the number of contracts and mainly related to studies -
it was agreed that GIPFZA will have responsibility for the Project's overall financial
management. As such, it will be the financial management implementing entity for the whole
project, including disbursement. GDA, on the other hand, will ensure the implementation
function, including procurement, for its own activities. These arrangements aim at ensuring a
simple financial management system that enables effective internal controls.
GIPFZA is an autonomous legal entity, expected to become financially sustainable. This requires
that the agency regularly monitor its financial situation to ensure that this goal is being met and
take any corrective action necessary. The GIPFZA financial management system should
therefore be able to generate this information; the assessment was careful to take this into
account.
A special account will be opened and managed by GIPFZA, the main implementing entity.
Funds deposited in the special account will finance eligible expenditures for activities
implemented both by GIPFZA and GDA. GDA will handle all procurement procedures and
23



implementation monitoring for the activities under its responsibility. GDA will also certify that
the related goods and services are effectively delivered or rendered, and submit requests for
payments, accompanied by all supporting documents, to GIPFZA for processing. A direct
payment method will also be used. Replenishment applications for the special account will be
submitted to IDA quarterly.
The counterpart funds will be deposited in a project account also managed by GIPFZA. The flow
of counterpart funds is similar to the one described above, except for the direct payment method,
which is not applicable. A US$240,000 initial amount will be deposited in the project account
with quarterly replenishments.
Since GIPFZA is a new entity, created in March 2001, the following requirements were agreed
upon as conditions of effectiveness: (i) the execution of a subsidiary agreement on behalf of the
Borrower and GIPFZA; (ii) the appointment of an independent auditor for GIPFZA; (iii) the
opening by the Borrower of the project account and the deposit therein of its initial contribution;
(iv) the adoption of the PIM in a form and substance acceptable to the IDA; (v) GIPFZA's
establishment of an accounting and financial management system satisfactory to the IDA;
(vi) the finalization of the bidding documents for all goods, works, and services to be carried out
in the first year of project implementation; and (vii) the enactment and passing into law of the
Regulatory Agency Bill. Likewise, an agreement was reached on a time-bound action plan to
implement these systems.
5. Environmental:             Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Gateway Project began in May 2000 under
the auspices of the EIA Working Group of the Gateway Project Task Force. During the study,
numerous field and office consultations took place. Specific consultations occurred to discuss the
EIA Inception Report (July 4, 2000) and the Draft Final Report (September 28, 2000). The final
EIA report was submitted in October 2000, along with a draft Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP). In order to present and discuss publicly these two documents, which
were updated in May 2001, a consultative meeting was held at the Senegambia Beach Hotel on
26th June 2001. As a follow-up to the consultative meeting, a three-week public review process
was launched in early July 2001. The documents were placed in all the administrative
commissioners offices and municipalities, as well as at the National Assembly and the National
Library. The NEA then collated the comments from the public and sent them to the consultants
for their Final ESMP Report.
The EIA treated five alternative FZ sites, but finally focused on the two sites chosen in the
IDI/Jebel Ali Free Zone Authority Feasibility Study - the airport site and the Bund Road site for
the port. However, the detailed engineering design and further environmental investigations
revealed that the Bund Road site was unsuitable because (i) the soil and geotechnical
characteristics make it prone to flooding and unsuitable to support buildings and warehouses at
24



reasonable cost; and (ii) this is a potential "RAMSAR" site. Consequently, the Bund Road site
has been dropped from the Project.
During the operations phase, the environmental impacts will depend on the kinds of economic
activities carried out in the FZ. Since these activities have not been defined, the EIA carried out a
broad generic assessment of a range of activities, such as food and fish processing,
electronics/assembly, cotton spinning, and wood furniture making.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Although only EA related to both airport and Bund Road sites, the ESMP only focuses on the
airport because the Bund Road site development has been dropped during project preparation for
the reasons explained above. The revised ESMP includes a summary, in matrix format, of the
environmental and social issues related to the development of the airport site and the mitigating
measures. To facilitate implementation of the ESMP, the impacts and mitigation measure have
been separated for (i) the construction phase; and (ii) the operations phase, and the responsibility
for each measure has been clearly assigned.
For the construction phase, there will be many common impacts and mitigation measures, which
will be implemented through contract clauses. For the operations phase, a standard format and
guidelines for completing activity-specific EIAs and EMPs has been defined. At minimum, the
ESMP will provide sample guidelines from the World Bank Pollution Abatement Handbook on
potential activities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:                             08/2001
Both the EA and ESMP have been published in The Gambia and at the Infoshop in September
2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and
(b) draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Gambian Government is strongly committed to protecting its environment. During the
preparation phase of the Gateway Project, several workshops were held to present and discuss
with all stakeholders the findings of the preparation studies. (See paragraph 5.1)
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project
on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The National Environment Agency (NEA) has been designated to monitor, in close coordination
with the GIPFZA, the Project's overall impact on the environment. Central to this assignment is
the safeguarding of environmental and social concerns. A Memorandum of Understanding will
be signed between the NEA and GIPFZA to state clearly the role of NEA during the project
processing cycle and the relationships of the agency with GIPFZA. This role will lie in assessing,
25



controlling, and enforcing that all activities related to the Gateway Project are environmentally
and socially sound. To this effect, the NEA will require the capacity to review all proposed
activities, assess all potential environmental and social impacts, liaise and coordinate with other
authorities with responsibilities in the relevant areas and subjects, and issue specific measures to
promoters of proposed activities to prevent or reduce negative impacts. Furthermore, it will
require the capacity to monitor the effects of on-going activities and the effectiveness of the
ESMP.
Another basic principle in the ESMP is that of having the polluter pay for environmental and
social degradation or problems the activities may cause. This includes not only the off-setting,
remedying, or prevention of negative impacts but also to contribute to whatever is required to
analyze, study, and monitor possible impacts on the natural and social environment.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's
social development outcomes.
The EA study indicated that there are no known squatter or relocation issues, nor are there any
known threatened archeological or cultural resources in the project area. Other social issues, such
as increased traffic and socially transmitted diseases, are considered minimal. The ESMP
includes standard procedures to identify and mitigate any potential effects over and above those
identified in the EA study. These include "chance find" procedures in respect to archeological or
cultural resources, as well as procedures to deal with unforeseen resettlement needs.
The main social benefits will include increased employment and revenue, as well as improved
future earning power from training. Secondary effects will include stimulation of spin-off
services and businesses, and the general uplifting of the local economy through forward and
backward linkages. Improved infrastructure will also bring about improved housing and
sanitation conditions for FZ workers.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project preparation studies (feasibility study, engineering design, Environment Impact
Assessment) have been supervised by a Project Task Force Committee housed in the DOSTIE
that includes representatives from (i) governmental agencies (DOSTIE, NEA, GCAA,
DOSFEA); (ii) public enterprises (GPA, GAMTEL); and (iii) the private sector (Chamber of
Commerce, Jimpex). The task force has discussed and finalized the terms of reference for these
studies, and has participated in the finalization of the project design, the contents of each project
component, project phasing, financing, the triggers, and performance indicators.
As part of project preparation, 120 participants from both the public and private sectors gathered
at a first public seminar in April 1999 to present Government strategy towards the development
of Free Zones in the Gambia. A second workshop was held in June 2000 to present the main
findings of the updated feasibility study carried out in 1994 and to reach consensus on the
Project's rationale and design.
26



Project design also integrates the concerns and prospects of the local and foreign private sector in
The Gambia through several meetings of the Project Tearn with this sector during preparation
missions. The Project will provide the infrastructure to facilitate investment and a competitive
incentive package, as well as the reforms that will be implemented in the port and airport, and
the creation of the one-stop shop will streamline trade and enterprise creation, thereby
responding to the issues raised by investors. In regard to the investors' other concern - high
interest rates - the Project will work in close coordination with the IMF Program.
Finally, given the sensitive nature of environment in The Gambia, the Project has been designed
in close coordination with both the National Environment Agency and the Department for
Forestry and Natural Parks, and addresses the concerns of these departments.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See para. 5.4 above
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As noted in 6.1, the ESMP has indicated that there are no major social issues associated with the
development of the airport Free Zone site. Social development outcomes, mainly increased
employment, will be implemented through the contractors, developers, and investors.
Preferences for local employment are generally expressed in contract documents and agreements
with the developers.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes, mainly increased employment, will be monitored through the
Monitoring and Evaluation Program managed by GIPFZA.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      Yes
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*           No
27



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
The ESMP was conceived on the basis of a close interaction of the implementing agency,
GIPFZA, and the National Environmental Agency, NEA. The approach will be to mainstream
within GIPFZA the basic procedures to ensure compliance with the applicable safeguards, with
the technical collaboration and regulatory and enforcement support of the NEA.
This will be implemented through a Memorandum of Understanding to clarify the specific
arrangements regarding procedures, timeframes, and mutual requirements. In particular, it will
frame the supervisory and control function of NEA in regard to the ESMP, while the
implementation of the ESMP will lie with GIPFZA.
In addition, the Department of Water Resources (DWR) will provide technical support to the
NEA in the way of water quality monitoring. To this end, NEA and DWR will sign a
Memorandum of Understanding.
The NEA will play a critical role in guiding GIPFZA and individual promoters with
environmental and social safeguards; in this sense, their role will also be one of service provided
to developers. The Project, through technical assistance and training in environmental and social
management, will assist both the NEA and GIPFZA to fulfill this role.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is expected to have a lasting impact on The Gambia's economic development by
reducing the high cost of doing business and increasing The Gambia's competitiveness in global
markets. It will do this through (i) the reform of the legislative, regulatory, and incentive systems
in "front-line" areas; (ii) institutional strengthening and capacity building, including skills
development in key areas; (iii) development of new instruments to increase availability of know-
how and financing, such as franchising and PPI; and (iv) country promotion and consensus
building. Although the Free Zones could be built successfully and the capacity building
objectives could be achieved, other problems beyond the scope of the Project could handicap the
FZs from attaining commercial success, such as global economic recession, social unrest, etc.
Hence, it is important to view this Project as one that removes constraints and creates leverage
for the Government to implement reforms in related sectors, and its success should be evaluated
on that basis.
From the environmental point of view, the Project will incorporate the findings and proposed
mitigation measures from the Environmental Impact Assessment Study and Environment and
Social Management Plan as integral parts of its implementation program. To ensure the
environmental sustainability of the Project, guidelines for developers and operators will be
developed, and periodic environmental assessments and audits will be conducted for quality
assurance.
28



The Project will be sustainable if:
* The Government remains committed to its macroeconomic reforms to ensure macroeconomic
stability, protecting investors from inflation, exchange rate, and interest rate risks.
* The Government is able to implement its divestiture strategy.
* The Government is able to create a friendly political environment to attract foreign investors
and propose attractive incentives to find world renowned developers and operators for the
Free Zones.
* The institutionalization of a healthy public-private sector dialogue leads to mutual
cooperation and partnership.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Private sector investors do not respond to  M      A mid-term review will be conducted during the
improved institutional framework and               first phase to assess the responsiveness of
incentives.                                        investors and take corrective action.
Political or administrative interference in  H     As specified in the Gambia Investment
GIPFZA management.                                 Promotion and Free Zones Act 2001, the Board
of the GIPFZA includes three members (out of a
total of seven) from the private sector. The Act
also provides a clear statement of the GIPFZA
duties and limits the role of Government in its
management.
Lack of commitment of the DOSFEA to       S        The proposed rating is justified by the potential
modernize the Customs & Excise                     resistance to change that the Customs & Excise
Administration.                                    Department may demonstrate during project
implementation. This possible resistance could
be addressed through the on-going customs
modernization program.
Resistance to long-distance               M        The Gambia Investment Promotion and Free
telecommunications liberalization for the          Zones Act 2001 formally authorizes
teleport services.                                 telecommunication and information technology
related services within Free Zones.
From Components to Outputs
Delays in project implementation due to   M        Training and technical assistance components are
weak capacity.                                     aiming to build the capacity of the public sector
involved in the project implementation.
GOG counterpart funds unavailable.        M        The contribution of the Government is limited to
a maximum of 12 percent of the total project
cost.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The extensive consultations done during project preparation confirmed that the Project does not
present any significant controversial aspects.
29



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  The subsidiary agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and GIPFZA.
* The Borrower has caused GIPFZA to appoint an independent auditor, with qualifications and
experience that are acceptable to the association.
* The Borrower's project account has been opened and the initial contribution deposited.
* The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in a form and substance
acceptable to the association.
* The Borrower has caused GIPFZA to establish an accounting and financial management
system satisfactory to the association.
* The Borrower has finalized the bidding documents for all procurement of goods, works, and
services to be carried out in the first year of the Project.
*  The Borrower has enacted and passed into law the Regulatory Agency Bill.
2. Other: [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]
Board conditions
Government Private Sector Policy Letter signed.
Other conditions: During project implementation
*  The Borrower shall appoint and maintain throughout project implementation, a project
coordinator, with experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the association.
*  The Borrower shall cause NEA to enter into a MOU with GIPFZA, under terms and
conditions that are satisfactory to the association, setting forth their respective roles in the
environmental management of the Project.
*  GIPFZA and the Borrower shall apply the criteria, policies, procedures, and arrangements set
out in the PIM and the ESMP.
*  GIPFZA and the Borrower shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a
PCC which shall be responsible for providing strategic advice on project implementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
[1 I.b)Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
H 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
30



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
I1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Cl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
hel Audi                    Ma        Pes is-Fraissard      oMclntire
am Leader                    Se crMar ager/Director            untry Manager/Director
31



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Key Performance         Data Collection
Hierarchy of Objectives  Indicators            Strategy             Critical Assumptions
Sector/ country     (from Goal to Bank
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:   reports:             Mission)
Rapid, broad-based,     Macroeconomic statistics  Macro accounts    1. Efficient allocation
export- oriented and    on growth of GDP,      Statistics from the  of public resources to
sustained growth        exports and employment.  DOSTIE             social sectors.
(Attachment 1II, p. 1,                                              2. Backward
CAS, August 6, 1998)                                               industrial linkages in
rural areas
End-of-Program                              (from Purpose to
Program Purpose:        Indicators:            Program reports:     Goal)
To enable the Gambia to  1. Export earnings are  1. Macro Accounts  1. Steadfast
establish itself as a   increased by 10%.       2. GIPFZA annual    commitment of GOG
globally competitive    (Baseline = $20 m)      reports            to private sector
export and processing   2. Private investment   3. Government       growth strategy
center.                share of GDP is increased  statistics
Phase 1: : Establish a  by 8%                   4. Detailed Trade
favorable business     (Baseline = $20 m).      statistics
environment and launch
an operational Free Zone
(FZ)
Phase 2: Consolidate FZ
functions and financing
and deepen production
linkages with local
economy
32



Project Development    Outcome / Impact        Project reports:   (from Objective to
Objective:             Indicators:                                 Purpose)
Lay the foundation for  Private investment:   1. Government        Transparent and
expanded private        I . The number of licenses statistics      efficient judicial
investment, export     delivered by GIPFZA     2. Detailed trade   system for
oriented production and  during the period 2002-  statistics       commercial issues.
employment through the  2006: 5 licenses a year.  Independent social
establishment of Free  2. The creation of at least impact assessment
Zones and an improved  20 new firms.           3. GIPFZA annual
institutional environment. Export oriented     reports
production:             4. Independent
3. The achievement of  Assessments
annual ton and value
targets for the FZs.
Employment:
4. The creation of at least
4,000 direct and indirect
new jobs.
Institutional environment:
5. Average process time
to create new enterprises
is reduced to 4 weeks.
6. Average customs
clearance time for FZ
related cargoes is reduced
to 1 day.
Output from each       Output Indicators:      Project reports:    (from Outputs to
Component:                                                         Objective)
Component A: Physical  Operational FZ:         Project Coordination  Local and foreign
Investment for a new   A. 1 Key infrastructure at  and GIPFZA annual  private sector
Free Zone at the airport:  the Airport site is  reports            responds to improved
An operational FZ is   completed and equipped.                     institutional
established at the airport.  A.2 10 ha cumulated                   framework and
surface lands leased for                   incentives.
the period 2002-2006.                       There is no political
A.3 Establishment of                        or administrative
privately-financed                         interference in
teleport services.                          GIPFZA
Foundation for future                       management.
laid:                                       Strong commitment
A.4 FZ Master Plan is                       of the DOSFEA to
completed.                                  modernize the
Customs
Administration, and
support from the
Technical Divestiture
Agency.
3



Component B:             GIPFZA promotes trade:   GIPFZA Reports       Long distance
Establishment of an      B. I Market surveys and  Periodical interviews  telecommunications
Investment Promotion     Market Plan carried out.  with operators and  liberalized for the
and Free Zone Agency     B.2 Design of Interface  developers.          teleport services.
(GIPFZA): The GIPFZA     River Free Zones,
progressively becomes a  including engineenng
self-sustaining entity and  design, bidding
effectively plays its role  documents, economic and
as promoter of trade and  environmental studies.
manager of the FZs.      GIPFZA1 is self-
sustaining:
B.3 Management Plan for
GIPFZA is completed
and implemented.
B.4 Annual GIPFZA
turnover targets achieved.
B.5 The GIPFZA
operating costs are
covered by its revenues in
2006.
Improved support
services:
B.6 Quality management
audit of Customs &
Excise Department
completed and
recommendations are
implemented.
Component C.: Support to  Privatization:          Annual reports from the
the Gambia Divestiture   C .1 Divestiture of Track I  GCAA, GIA, GPTCand
Agency: Major Gambian    Public Enterprises       GPA
companies are divested.  (transport and telecom) are  Independent assessment
carried out.             reports.
C.2 Divestiture of Track II
Public Enterprise are carried
out.
Component D: Capacity -  Improved capacities:     Project Coordination
Building. Capacity of    D. 1 Number of enterprises  and GIPFZA annual
stakeholders to promote,  or entrepreneurs trained for  reports.
facilitate and engage in  the period 2002-2006.  Initial training needs
trade is strengthened.   D.2 Number of staff trained  assessments.
Capacity of GDA to divest  from: GIPFZA, GDA, and  List of trainees.
and regulate is also     other public and private  Independent training
strengthened             stakeholders.            audits to assess skills
D.3 Increased capabilities  attained vis-a-vis initial
as measured in training  goals.
audits.
34



Component E: Project and  Coordination:         Project Coordination and
Environmental            E. I Regular           NEA Reports.
Management: Project      disbursements and proper  Environmental
components are coordinated  accounting of project  assessments,
and social and           components.            Environmental
environmental mitigation is  Environmental      Management Plans and
effectively carried out.  mitigation:           EMP reports
E.2 Environmental
assessments completed
and mitigation measures
implemented
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives  Indicators             Data Collection Strategy  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for                           (from Components to
Sub-components:          each component)        Project reports:       Outputs)
Component A: Physical    A. US $ 5.3 million    1. Supervision missions,  No significant delays in
Investmentfor a new Free                        GIPFZA progress reports, the project
Zone at the airport                             consultant's report, project implementation due to
A. I FZ Infrastructure                          mid-term review         local weak capacity and
A.2 Common user facilities                                              experience.
and utilities                                                           GOG counterpart funds
are available.
Co-financing funds
available for the one-
stop-shop building.
Component B:             B. US $5.1 million     2. Supervision missions,
Establishment of an                             GIPFZA progress reports,
Investment Promotion and                        consultant's report, project
Free Zone                                       mid-term review
Agency(GIPFZA)
B. I GIPFZA Operational
Support
B.2 Technical Assistance to
GIPFZA
B.3 Market Surveys and
Marketing Plan
B.4 Investment Promotion
(consultancy)
B.5 Studies
Component C: Support to  C. US $ 1.8 million    3. Supervision missions,
the Gambia Divestiture                          GIPFZA progress reports,
Agency                                          consultant's report, project
C. I Divestiture Support                        mid-term review
C.2 Divestiture
Safeguarding and
Monitoring
C.3 Divestiture Consensus
Building
35



Component D: Capacity -  D. US $1.2 million    4. Supervision missions,
Building                                       GIPFZA progress reports,
D. 1 Training for                              consultant's report, project
Stakeholders (GIPFZA)                          mid-term review
D.2 GDA Capacity-
Building
D.3 Regulatory and
institutional setup for
Divestiture
D.4 Training for the PCU
Component E: Project and  E. US $0.9 million   5. Supervision missions,
Environmental Management                       GIPFZA progress reports,
E. I Project Management                        consultant's report, project
E.2 Environmental and                          mid-term review
Social Management
(GIPFZA)
Contingencies           F. US $ 1.9 million
Reimbursement of PPFs   G. US $1.9 million
Total Proiect Cost      US $18.1 million
36



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.35 million
A. Physical Investment for a new Free Zone at the airport
This component has only one sub-component: (A. 1) FZ infrastructure.
A.l FZInfrastructure (US$ 5.35 million)
This sub-component has five items: (i) Enabling works at the airport; (ii) Fencing and access
roads; (iii) Common utilities (energy, water, telephone); (iv) Common users warehouse; and
(v) Consulting services for supervision of works.
(i) Enabling works at the airport. The enabling works will prepare the site for civil works.
They include removing trees as well as leveling the soil at the site.
(ii) Fencing and access roads. The fencing will delimit the Free Zone area and will allow
customs to control the transfer of goods between the Free Zone, the port, the airport, and the
local economy. The access roads will allow linkage of the GIPFZA headquarters with other
buildings, such as warehouses. In addition, the roads ensure that the Free Zone is linked with the
airport and the port to allow transportation of goods and products.
(iii) Common utilities. This will include power, telephone, water, and sewage. The Project will
finance the installation of these utilities inside the Free Zone and the connection of these utilities
to the outside.
(iv) Common users warehouse. The Project will finance a common user warehouse at the
airport site. It will be used by the first operators that obtain their licenses to operate who do not
want to build their own warehouses. The leasing rates proposed to those operators will be
commercial. By building these warehouses, the Government will send a clear signal to private
developers about its commitment to develop Free Zones, giving them an example to follow.
(v) Consulting services for supervision of works. Consultants will be recruited to ensure
adherence to international standards.
Project Component 2 - US$5.10 million
B. Establishment of an Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency (GIPFZA)
This component will contain the following sub-components: (B.1) GIPFZA operational support;
(B.2) Technical assistance to GIPFZA; (B.3) Consulting services to complete and implement
37



market surveys and a marketing plan; (B.4) Consulting services to promote investment; and
(B.5) Various studies related to facilitating trade.
B.I GIPFZA Operational Support ($1.4 million)
In the years immediately following its creation, GIPFZA will most likely not have enough
revenues from licensing fees and land leasing to cover its marketing and operational
expenditures. In addition, GIPFZA will act as an implementing agency for the Project, which
will probably result in a negative cash flow in the initial years. To enable GIPFZA to establish
itself during this period, the Project will finance its operating costs during its first five years of
operation. These operating costs will include:
*  Salaries and travel allowances of GIPFZA staff incurred in carrying out the Project, but
excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants
* Office supplies and rent
* Utilities costs that include costs for power, telecommunications, and water
* Fuel, vehicle maintenance
*  Insurance
* Audits
* Investment promotion expenses.
Additional operational support will be provided through the hiring of a legal advisor and the
development and maintenance of a website.
B. 2 Technical assistance to GIPFZA ($1.8 million)
A highly qualified consulting firm will provide GIPFZA with both short- and long-term technical
assistance. Short-term assistance will mainly consist in helping GIPFZA to build its business
plan, which will identify strategic directions for the GIPFZA over a seven-year period. This
business plan will be accompanied by a financial analysis, which will estimate annual revenues
and expenditures, and justify the choices and recommendations. It will also focus on the
backward linkages between the Free Zones and the Gambian private sector. In the long run, the
emphasis will be on transfer of "know-how" and assistance to GIPFZA management.
B. 3 Market surveys and marketing plan ($0.3 million)
The Project will finance market surveys that assess the needs of international investors, identify
interested operators and developers, and propose tailored products to attract investment in The
Gambia. Using the recommendations of the market surveys, the GIPFZA will design and
implement an international marketing plan to promote The Gambia as a favorable place for
investment through the Free Zones and incentive packages. As part of this endeavor, a brochure
will be prepared and sent to targeted potential investors, followed by an intensive marketing
campaign by mail, phone, or direct meetings. Visits will be organized for investors willing to
visit the Free Zones.
38



B.4 Investment promotion-consultancy ($0. 7 million)
The Project will finance consultants to help prepare promotional materials and fairs in The
Gambia or abroad.
B. 5 Studies ($0. 9 million)
The Project will finance studies related to GIPFZA's missions.
Design of the interface River - Free Zones. The idea of creating an interface between the Free
Zones and the Gambia River was formnulated in the feasibility study as a way to create business
opportunities for poor farmers upriver, by linking them through the river to the agro-products
exporters of the Free Zones. On the other hand, it is unlikely that investors in this kind of
business can be attracted during the first years of the Free Zones. Therefore, the first phase will
carry out the economic/financial viability analysis as well as the engineering design study. Terms
of reference for these studies will be prepared by the GIPFZA and approved by the Bank.
Consultants will be selected following World Bank guidelines. Upon successful completion of
the studies, implementation will be carried out during APL 2.
Trade and facilitation survey. This audit will examine and evaluate obstacles to cross-frontier
movement of a routine consignment and its associated payment. It will follow World Bank/IECC
(International Express Carriers' Conference) Facilitation Audit Methodology as described in
Trade & Transport Facilitation - An Audit Methodology by John Raven, 2000.
Quality management systems audit at the Customs & Excise Department. Using quality
management systems principals, the audit will focus on establishing the Customs & Excise
Department's (CED) role as a trade facilitator, and propose changes in regulations, operational
procedures, and human resources to achieve the CED's revised role. The QMS principles are
internationally accepted and can be certified using International Standards Organization
certification procedures (ISO 9000).
Project Component 3 - US$1.80 million
C. Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency
This component will support the Government's agenda for privatization. It will include three
sub-components: (C. 1) Divestiture Program; (C.2) Divestiture safeguarding and monitoring; and
(C.3) Divestiture consensus building.
C. I GOG Divestiture Program ($1. 0 million)
Under the Gambia Divestiture Act 2001, the Government has set the goal of divesting fifteen
public enterprises (PEs). The enterprises fall into two categories, Track I and Track II
enterprises. Track I enterprises are those of key importance to the economy. Track II enterprises
are other Government equity investments that can be divested without the need of legislative or
regulatory support (beyond a general requirement to try to ensure effective competition).
39



Activities to be financed under this sub-component would be related to (i) financial and technical
assessment of Track I PEs in transport and telecommunication; (ii) divestiture of Track I PEs in
the transport and telecommunications sectors; and (iii) Divestiture of Track II PEs.
C 2 Divestiture safeguarding and monitoring ($0.3 million)
To ensure effective implementation of the Divestiture Program, the Project will support
divestiture safeguarding and monitoring activities. This will include design work to establish a
retrenchment and social safety net framework, and an environmental audit of PEs to be divested.
C.3 Divestiture consensus building ($0.5 million)
The Project will finance the services of specialized communication consultants to design and
implement the communication campaign, including dissemination of privatization investment
opportunities at home and abroad. It will also contract out independent consultants to canry out
qualitative research on public opinion on privatization in The Gambia. In addition, the
development and maintenance of the GDA website will be funded.
Project Component 4 - US$1.20 million
D. Capacity Building
This component will include the following items: (D.1) Training for stakeholders under the
mentorship of GIPFZA; and (D.2) GDA capacity building.
D. I Training for stakeholders ($ 0.4 million)
The GIPFZA will be responsible for the following activities:
*  Granting licenses to operators and investors willing to invest in the Free Zones
*  Regulating activities and operations in the Free Zones
* Promoting The Gambia as a preferred location for international investors
* Helping local and foreign private investors in their application process through the one-stop
shop.
To accomplish these missions, the GIPFZA will need to strengthen its technical expertise in
regulation, marketing, and management. Although key members of the agency will be
competitively selected based on technical qualifications, the Project will provide targeted
training to sharpen their capabilities to accomplish specialized tasks in a world-class competitive
environtrent.
Moreover, because customs procedures play one of the most important roles in the success of
Free Zones, customs procedures and transactions may be computerized and streamlined, and
management systems may be introduced, with ISO 9000 certification targeted for the medium
term, following the QMS audit of CED. The Project will provide training funds for CED staff to
eventually support these management reforms and assist the department to assume its new role.
40



Other public and private stakeholders may benefit from trainings if such needs arise during
project implementation.
The Project supervision and coordination unit will be housed in the DOSTIE. Implementation
will rest within GIPFZA and GDA. Key staff of this Department of State and agencies will be
trained in order to ensure adequate financial, procurement, disbursement, and management of the
Project.
D. 2 GDA Capacity building ($ 0.8 million)
Capacity building and training of staff are at the core of GOG's strategy to develop local
expertise and ensure the sustainability of reforms. The Project plans to sign a time-based service
contract with a consulting firm, which will provide expertise to GDA as needed. Training will
cover financial and business analysis, divestiture techniques, private participation in
infrastructure, and public services. Training will also cover promoting privatization and World
Bank procurement and financial management. The Project will finance special training/study
tours for stakeholders and policy makers on specific program elements.
Because of the importance of these enterprises to the economy, Divestiture of Track I PEs will
require legislative support to facilitate transactions (e.g., preparation of sector legislation and
regulations, and the setting up of a multi-sector regulatory institution). This sub-component will
finance the set-up of this support.
Project Component 5 - US$0.90 million
E. Project and Environmental Management
This component will include the following: (E. 1) Project management; and (E.2) Environmental
and social management.
E. I Project management ($0.2 million)
This component will finance all costs related to project coordination in the DOSTIE.
E. 2 Environmental and social management ($0.7 million)
The proposed Project is rated Environmental Category A. In conformity with Bank guidelines,
an Environmental Assessment has been canied out by the consulting company Ecolas, financed
by the PHRD grant from Japan. The EA has identified environmental and social issues related to
the FZ site and has recommended measures to be integrated into the Environment Management
Plan. These will be implemented during the construction and operations phases of the airport
site. Supplemental EA and resettlement plans will have to be undertaken for the River Free
Zones, to be identified during APL 1, as well as for other Free Zones created under the provisions
of The Gambia Free Zones Act 2001. Since many of the economic activities in the airport FZ are
41



yet to be identified, the periodic environmental and social assessments will also include activity-
specific EMPs, as they are identified. This sub-component thus involves two activities:
(a) Periodic environmental and social assessments. In order to ensure the environmental and
social sustainability of the Project, an independent consulting firm will carry out annual audits.
The consulting firm will identify and assess the importance of, and recommend environmental
mitigation related to (i) all negative trends in pollution patterns caused by Free Zones
development and operations, and (ii) all social effects of the development of the Free Zones.
These recommendations will be an annual update of the ESMP for each FZ, and will be
transmitted to the GIPFZA, which will establish and enforce environmental regulations and
procedures within the Zones.
(b) Environmental mitigation measures. The Project will fund environmental mitigation
measures in the initial and annual ESMP updates, which will include (i) mitigation measures
related to the development of the airport FZ site, and eventually the development of River Free
Zones; and (ii) industry and site-specific mitigation measures related to the installations within
the FZs.
42



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Local      Foreign     Total
Project Cost By Component                          US $million  US $million  US $million
A. Physical Investment for a new Free Zone at the airport  3.49  1.86        5.35
B. Establishment of an Investment Promotion and Free  1.53       3.56        5.09
Zone Agency (GIPFZA)
C. Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA)    0.34        1.46        1.80
D. Capacity-Building                                 0.42        0.82        1.24
E. Project and Environmental Management              0.57        0.37        0.94
Reimbursement of PPFs                                0.00        1.85        1.85
Total Baseline Cost                                  6.35        9.92       16.27
Physical Contingencies                             0.43        0.46       0.89
Price Contingencies                                0.22        0.75        0.97
Total Project Costs1        7.00       11.13       18.13
Total Financing Required        7.00       11.13       18.13
Local      Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Category                           US $million  US $million  US $million
Civil Works                                          3.41        1.55        4.96
Consultants                                           1.35       5.73        7.08
Goods                                                0.19        0.00        0.19
Training                                              0.31       0.33        0.64
Operating Costs                                       1.09       0.44        1.53
PPF                                                  0.00        1.85        1.85
Contingencies                                        0.65        1.23        1.88
Total Project Costs         7.00       11.13      18.13
Total Financing Required        7.00       11.13       18.13
lIdentifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 18.13 (US$m).
Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 88.25% of total project cost net of taxes
43



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Background
1.    The Free Zones (FZs) derive their competitive position from two main factors: (i) the
quality of the service delivered; and (ii) the sectoral focus of the development. The Zones will
offer facilities at competitive prices but, more so, will offer the best quality of personal service to
potential investors in the region and worldwide. This service delivery will be enhanced by the
sectoral focus adopted by the Zones, which will concentrate on four key areas:
Promoting tourism
Niche manufacturing for fresh food and agribusiness products
Regional trade in West Africa
International services.
2.    Tourism is an important industry in The Gambia. Revenues from tourism contribute
about 12 percent of GDP. Further development of the tourism industry will also support the
development of the airport activities and critical air-links, and therefore support the growth of
The Gambia as an international trade and business center. The industry will also strengthen the
domestic food and agribusiness industries, which themselves can form the base of export
manufacturing industries in the country.
3.    The Free Zones will promote niche manufacturing industries, which will add value to
products destined for the region and Europe, although a main goal is to stimulate industries that
export products to developed markets. Food and horticulture are the key areas targeted here.
4.    The Gambia is already a good trade and services center. The Zones will support the
development and growth in trade services, although the strategy will also seek to use the trading
business as a foundation for building value-added businesses. Another related goal is to shift the
local services culture to one focused on international trade with developed and regional markets.
5.    Teleport services would be a key support to the regional and international trade industry.
These services are potentially profitable, since a small number of jobs and investments can
generate a positive internal rate of return, and the accessible market is large and growing. Based
on this, a private sector investor might be selected to provide such services.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
6.    Three main benefits and two types of costs have been identified:
Benefits:
(i) Foreign exchange earnings/value added of exports. Public discussion of FZs places
considerable stress on foreign exchange earnings derived from the Zones, reflecting the
presumption that these earnings are directly relevant to the welfare of the host country. In fact,
the foreign exchange earnings of foreign-owned firms in the FZs merely constitute transactions
44



between these finns and firms abroad. They therefore have marginally direct effects on the
economic welfare of host country nationals, except for the money converted into domestic
currency to be spent on wages and purchases from the local economy. On the other hand, the
limited sale of Free Zone goods in the local market will save foreign currency up to 20 percent of
the production, as per the GIPFZ Act 2001. The host country will receive a net benefit from
these purchases and sales, and these benefits have been quantified in this economic analysis to
represent foreign exchange earnings by using value added of exports.
(ii) Employment generation. It is estimated that about 1,000 direct jobs will be created from 20
firms within 5 years This assumption is reasonable and has been used as the base case scenario.
In 15 years, it is estimated that about 3,000 direct jobs will be created in FZs.
A secondary effect is expected in employment generation that will create indirect jobs from
activities in the periphery of the FZs. As a basis for this assumption, the following infonnation
was collected during appraisal:
- Radville Farm (export fresh fruit and vegetable to the UK market), direct jobs average 450
(500 and 700 at peak period - i.e., between September and May). Indirect jobs 1,500;
- Prince Agro Oil (export of peanut oil and peanut cake), direct jobs 45 and indirect jobs 150.
These indirect jobs have been estimated at three times the total jobs created in the FZs (see table
below).
Most governments' concern is to create jobs through the FZs, reflecting the view that the social
benefits of creating additional jobs outweigh the costs. This implies that the wage received by a
worker exceeds the opportunity cost of employment in the Zones. It is difficult to measure the
relevant opportunity cost because wages in the Zones tend to be higher than comparable
employment outside the Zones. This benefit was therefore not included in the cost-benefit
analysis.
Estimated jobs generation:
5 years       15 years
Direct            1,000          3,000
Indirect          3,000           9,000
Total             4,000          12,000
(iii) Technology transfer. FZs usually involve labor-intensive production and thus promote
technology in the host country. This is probably the most important externality that comes with
the presence of the FZs. In the long run, the "learning by doing" mechanism will come into play
through the "catalytic effect" that will prompt gains in managerial practices and notions of
quality control among local middle managers employed by the FZs firms. This is expected to
increase productivity and efficiency in domestic firms, which would otherwise have not
improved without the influence of the FZs. This benefit is difficult to measure and thus was not
included in the present cost-benefit analysis.
45



Costs:
(i)   Infrastructure costs: Public expenditures required to set up the Zones are a clear economic
cost. Therefore, the off-site infrastructure investment costs will be included as the major costs for the FZs
project.
(ii)  Administrative costs: The establishment, maintenance and administration of the Zones sites
are all economic costs, and in principle should be evaluated at shadow prices. In the absence of data, the
financial costs will be used.
Main Assumptions:
7.    Simple assumptions were necessary to carry out the economic analysis, and efforts were
made not to overestimate social profitability of the FZs. The assumptions used in the analysis
include:
(i) The Government of The Gambia is committed to the Project and the continued
improvement of the macroeconomic environment, including the implementation of its divestiture
plan.
(ii) The targeted markets (or market niche) remain open for export.
(iii) Gross revenues in the tourism sector increase by 5 percent from 2002 to 2007 and 4 percent
afterwards.
(iv) The international freight rates and handling charges do not increase significantly to make
exports unprofitable.
(v) The export value added is estimated to be between 10-15 percent of total value of export
sales.
(vi) The FZs firms will export between 80 and 100 percent of their production.
(vii) The opportunity cost of capital is set at 12 percent, a rate frequently used in the region.
Results of the cost-benefit analysis
8.    The financial cost of the project is US$18 million, net of monetary depreciation and
physical contingencies. The estimate of economic cost is US$16 million (about 10 percent less
than the financial cost, based on the observations of similar projects in the sub-region). As
indicated in the table below, the final economic results are represented by the net present value
calculations. The results show that the overall project can be strongly justified in NPV and ERR.
The cash flow was developed for the whole project and not per component. This was mainly
because it is difficult to quantify the indirect benefits that would have been derived from the
capacity building component.
However, in order to take into account the significant resources expected to be diverted from
other economic activities into the FZs, the benefits have been reduced by a factor of two-thirds.
This reflects the social opportunity costs of these resources. These figures are, however, probably
extremely conservative since many other benefits have not been quantified (see point 6 above).
46



Economic Analysis Summary (all fiaures in US$ millions)
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Financial Costs (w/t cont.)      2.76  4.54  4.70  3.56  2.82            _    __
Economic Cost                    2.49  4.10  4.23  3.24  2.54
Net Economic Benefits
Tourism                       0.04  0.08  0.14  0.19  0.24  0.30  0.34  0.39  0.44  0.48  0.53  0.59
Manufacturing and Agro-process  0.00  0.75  1.25  1.75  2.25  2.75  2.97  3.21  3.46  3.74  4.04  4.36
Net Economic Benefits           0.04  0.83  1.39  1.94  2.49  3.05  3.31  3.60  3.90  4.22  4.57  4.95
Benefits minus Costs            -2.45 -3.27  2.84 -1.30 -0.05  3.05  3.31  3.60  3.90  4.22  4.57  4.95
_  2014 20151 2016 2017
Financial Costs (w/t cont.)
Economic Cost
Net Economic Benefits
Tourism                       0.64  0.70  0.76  0.83
Manufacturing and Agro-process  4.71  5.09  5.50  5.94
Net Economic Benefits           5.35  5.79  6.26  6.77  |EIRR = 21.2%
Benefits minus Costs             5.35  5.79  6.26  6.77                65
9.     Based on these assumptions, the project benefit results in an ERR of 21.2 percent in the
base case, with NPV of US$9.7 million, which compares favorably with the rates of return for
successful FZs elsewhere. (The IRR on Penang FZ firms [Malaysia] is 28 percent, 26 percent in
Indonesia, 23 percent in Shenzhen [China], 15 percent in Korea and -3 percent in Philippines.
The ERR of Kenya FZ was 18 percent. Source: World Bank.)
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
10.    Sensitivity analysis was carried out with the following assumptions:
- Tourism Growth Rate without project: normal distribution with a mean at 1 percent and a
standard deviation of 1 percent. This reflects the potential for The Gambia to have a slow but
steady development of its tourism industry.
- Tourism Growth Rate during project: normal distribution with a mean at 5 percent and a
standard deviation of 3 percent.
47



- Number of new FZ-related businesses each project year.
0.4 --   --                ---           0.4 7--------.----
0.35              0--  -                  35__       _
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
0. 3                                       .
025                                       025
0                       021
o                                        >
0.1                            ~~~~~~~~~~0.05
0                                        0,
0     1     2     3     4                0     1     2     3    4
Now businesses in 2003            New businesses In 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
Average Manufacturing Net Value per business: Normal distribution with a mean of $250,000
and a standard deviation of US$50,000
Manufacturing Growth Rate after the project (2008 onwards): Normal distribution with a mean
of 8 percent and a standard deviation of 5 percent. This takes into account the uncertainty
surrounding further development of Free Zones, as well as the internal growth of existing
businesses.
Based on these assumptions, 10,000 trials have been computed using the Monte-Carlo
methodology. This computation has resulted in the following frequency chart:
Foreast EIRR baseline            It indicates that, with the assumptions
9,973 Trials      Frequency Chart      113 Outliers  made, there is a quasi certainty that the
.0221                                224     Project will have a positive EIRR (99.0
017 . , ,. .- . ..      ....   . . --.- ....... -.-.-..  percent) and a 80.9 percent chance that the
D0   1                         ..   .    112 l  1  n  Project turns out to have an EIRR of more
.011 l      ....-.             . . . .   112 -  than  10 percent.
a.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Rank  correlation  coefficients (number
.Om  ibll 11 l 111    8  _     _      0      between -1.00 and +1.00) also give an
.1.1%  7.4%    15.8%   24.3%   32.7%      interesting sense of what will be the key
Certainty is0.85%  rom 10.0% to +ntfIty %
factors in the success of the Project. In our
simulation they are the following:
Flo                               Caneluio ra*
New businesses in 2003                0.52
New businesses in 2004                0.45
New businesses in 2005                0.20
New businesses in 2006                0.18
New businesses in 2007                0.22
Touism Growh Rate whxut prject        0.07
Touism Growth Rate with prqed         0.25
Average M3lurncuuing Net Value per business  0.43
lMuricturing GroAM Rate after the project  0.30
48



It clearly indicates how important GIPFZA's performance will be during its first years, both in
terms of attracting businesses and in attracting value-adding ones.
11.    Teleport. As indicated in the IDI feasibility study, teleport would be a good niche
industry for the Free Zone. But it has been decided not to incorporate revenues raised from this
activity in the baseline economic analysis of the Project. Indeed, these revenues are highly
uncertain, since they may rest on a single operator whose installation in The Gambia depends on
a number of factors.
However, based on the hypotheses made in the IDI report regarding potential development of
teleport activities within the Free Zone, and considering the emphasis that the GIPFZA will
probably put on finding a teleport operator, net revenue from this activity has been computed and
integrated into the economic analysis. In addition to the above assumptions (Cf. point 10) , it has
been considered here that there is one chance out of two that a teleport operator will invest in
The Gambia.
The computation has then resulted in the following frequency chart:
Forecast: EIRR
5,000 Trials           Frequency Chart             19 Outliers
.023                 1- -114
017  .1.......................................................  85  5
Z,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
oil       ...011  .............            .........  57   .
006                                           -28.5
0L 0 0
03%       11.1%    21.8%     326%      43.4%
Certainty is 92.58% from 10.0% to tinfinity %
The Project naturally turns out to have a much more positive EIRR and a 92.6 percent chance of
having an EIRR of more than 10 percent.
Rank correlation coefficients again give an interesting view of what the key factors in the
Project's success will be:
Factor                                    Correlation rank
Teleport                                        0.63
New businesses in 2003                          0.33
New businesses in 2004                          0.22
New businesses in 2005                          0.16
New businesses in 2006                          0.15
New businesses in 2007                         0.11
Tourism Growth Rate without project            -0.04
Tourism Growth Rate with project                0.15
Average Manufacturing Net Value per business    0.33
Manufacturing Growth Rate after the project     0.15
49



As already noted, teleport is by far the most important factor in the success of the Project: once
attracted, teleport activities are expected to flourish in terms of revenue. As expected, the number
of businesses created is also important, but less than the nature of the goods manufactured.
Finally, the scope of the synergy with the tourism sector created by the investment promotion
may turn out to be of key importance in the Project's success.
Main Beneficiaries
12.   The main beneficiaries of the Project include three broad target groups:
Local population. The Project will lead to a reduction in unemployment by creating job
opportunities and by improving the skills and mobility within the labor force.
Private investors. Private foreign and domestic investors will benefit through fewer
uncertainties and transaction costs associated with doing business in The Gambia, as well as the
availability of ready sites for export processing industries and simplified trade procedures.
Government of The Gambia. The Project is expected to attract a flow of foreign direct
investment that will have a positive effect on the balance of payments. It will also help increase
the capacity of government agencies that deal with the private sector.
Conclusion
13.   The general experience in other African countries with FZs has not been encouraging.
This is mainly because of (i) frequent political instabilities (e.g., Togo); (ii) unstable
macroeconomic environment; (iii) presence of strong labor unions in the Zone that distort the
labor costs (e.g., Senegal); (iv) public sector management of the FZs (e.g., Kenya); and (v)
cumbersome customs procedures (e.g., Senegal). However, the positive outcome of the on-going
Ghana Investment and Trade Gateway Project demonstrates that Africa has the potential to
attract Foreign Direct Investments through a well designed policy framework. In addition, The
Gambia has a high probability of success because of its political stability, reasonably stable
macroeconomic environment, availability of a cheap and large labor force with both skilled and
semi-skilled workers, and a private developer to manage the FZs. The private developer is
expected to bring along a critical mass of firms to operate in the FZs. The task that lays ahead for
The Gambia's Government is to promote the Zones and increase awareness among foreign
investors.
50



Annex 5: Financial Summary
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Project Components by Year (Base Costs)
(US$ '000)
2002     2003     2004     2005    2006    Total
A. Physical Investment for Free Economic Zone at the airport
1. FEZ Infrastructure
Enabling works                                                             -    885.1    491.7        -      -    1,376.8
Fencing & access roads                                                     -    491.7    393.4        -      -     885.1
Common utilities                                                           -    491.7    983.4        -      -    1,475.2
Common users warehouse                                                     -    245.9    983.4        -      -    1,229.3
One Stop-shop building                                                                   -       -        -            -
Consultant services for supervision of works                               -    126.6    126.6    126.6      -     379.9
Subtotal FEZ Infrastructure                                                  -  2,241.0  2,978.6    126.6      -   5,346.3
2. Equipment for one-stop shop Building                              ___                    _       _      _      _
Subtotal Physical Investment for Free Economic Zone at the airport             -  2,241.0  2,978.6    126.6      -   5,346.3
B. Establishement of an Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency
1. GIPFZA Operational Support
GIPFZA Operating Costs                                                  96.6    241.4     96.6     38.6      -     473.2
Legal advisor                                                              -     40.5     40.5     40.5   30.4     152.0
Investment Promotion (advertisements, fairs, ...)                          -    151.5    101.0    151.5  101.0     505.1
Website development and Maintenance                                        -     50.7        -        -      -      50.7
Office Equipment and Vehicles                                           48.3    144.8        -        -      -     193.1
Subtotal GIPFZA Operational Support                                      144.8    629.0    238.1    230.7  131.4   1,374.0
2. Technical assistance to GIPFZA
Consulting services for GIPFZA Business Plan                               -    253.3    101.3     50.7      -     405.3
Transfer of "know how'                                                     -    303.9    253.3    152.0      -     709.2
Assistance to GIPFZA managenent                                            -    152.0    152.0    101.3      -     405.3
Management Information System                                          152.0    101.3     50.7        -      -     303.9
Subtotal Technical assistance to GIPFZA                                  152.0    810.5    557.2    303.9      -    1,823.6
3. Market Surveys and Marketing Plan
Market Surveys                                                             -     65.9        -     51.7   25.3     142.9
GIPFZA Marketing Plan                                                      -    101.3        -     76.0      -     177.3
Subtotal Market Surveys and Marketing Plan                                   -    167.2        -    127.7   25.3     320.1
4. Investment Promotion (conailtancy)                                        -    253.3    152.0    152.0  101.3     658.5
5. Studies
Design of Interface River-Free Zone                                        -        -    101.3    405.3      -     506.6
Trade & Facilitation Survey                                                -     50.7    152.0        -      -     202.6
QMS Audit at Customs & Excise Department                                   -     50.7    152.0        -      -     202.6
Subtotal Studies                                                             -    101.3    405.3    405.3      -     911.8
Subtotal Establishement of an Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency    296.8  1,961.2  1,352.5  1,219.5  258.1   5,088.1
51



C. Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency
1. Divestiture Support
Financial and Technical Assessments of track I PEs                         -    253.3    253.3    152.0  152.0     810.5
Divestiture of Track I PEs (transport and Telecom)                         -        -        -        -      -         -
Divestiture of Track II PEs                                                -     50.7     50.7     50.7      -     152.0
Subtotal Divestiture Support                                                 -    303.9    303.9    202.6  152.0     962.5
2. Divestiture Safeguarding and Monitoring
Retrenchment and Compensation Framework                                    -        -     50.7    101.3      -     152.0
Environmental audit of Divested PEs                                        -     50.7     76.0     76.0      -     202.6
Subtotal Divestiture Safeguarding and Monitoring                             -     50.7    126.6    177.3      -     354.6
3. Divestiture Consensus Building
Domestic public consensus building                                         -     50.7     40.5     30.4      -     121.6
International Privatization Investment Campaign                            -    101.3    101.3    101.3      -     303.9
Website development and Maintenance                                        -     20.3     20.3     10.1   10.1      60.8
Subtotal Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency                              -    526.8    592.7    521.8  162.1   1,803.4
D. Capacity Building
1. Training for Stakeholders (GIPFZA)
Training Activities for the Public Sector                                  -     149.3    74.6        -   24.9     248.8
Training Activities for the Private Sector                                 -     99.5     49.8        -      -      149.3
Subtotal Training for Stakeholders (GIPFZA)                                  -    248.8    124.4        -   24.9     398.1
2. GDA Capacity Building
Privatization advisors                                                     -    111.4    111.4    111.4   111.4    445.8
Training on privatization, regilatory issues, sector policy reforms        -    201.7     49.8        -      -     251.5
Training ofjudges in commercial and business laws                          -        -        -        -                -
Study Tours for stakeholders on specific program elements                  -     49.8     49.8        -      -      99.5
World Banles Project Management                                            -      19.9    19.9        -      -      39.8
Subtotal Capacity Building                                                     -    631.7    355.3    111.4  136.3   1,234.7
E. Project and Environmental Management
1. Project Management                                                        -     72.9     72.9     48.6   48.6     242.9
2. Environmental and Social Management (GIPFZA)
Periodic Environmental and Sodal assessments                               -    152.0     76.0     76.0   76.0     379.9
Enviromnent mitigation measures                                            -     92.3     92.3     72.9   58.3     315.8
Subtotal Project and Environmental Management                                  -    317.1    241.2    197.4  182.9     938.6
F. Reimbursement of PPF                                                   1,850.0       -        -        -      -    1,850.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      2,146.8  5,677.9  5,520.3  2,176.8  739.3  16,261.1
Physical Contingencies                                                    10.0    361.7    400.5     93.3   26.6     892.0
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                               2.0    241.1    389.7    239.0   99.4     971.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       2,158.9  6,280.7  6,310.4  2,509.0  865.3  18,124.4
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                                        1,984.0  3,379.7  3,226.6  1,914.7  609.6  11,114.6
52



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Procurement
General
The last Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) on The Gambia, carried out in 1998,
concluded that policies and procedures governing public procurement in The Gambia needed
further revisions. These findings remain valid. Presently, the Government, with the assistance of
the World Bank, has embarked on a new reforn of the public procurement system of The
Gambia to align it with international best practice. In general, The Gambia's procurement laws
and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines, and no special exceptions, permits, or
licenses need to be specified in credit documents, since The Gambia procurement practices allow
IDA procedures to take precedence over contrary provisions in local regulations.
IDA-financed goods and civil works will be procured in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January
and August 1997, September 1997, and January 1999). The World Bank's standard bidding
documents and bid evaluation report will be used for international competitive bidding (ICB) as
well as for national competitive bidding (NCB). National competitive bidding procedures
advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with The Gambia's procurement laws and
regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that (i) bidders are given enough time to submit bids (at
least four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualifications are specified in the bidding
documents; (iii) no domestic preference is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible
foreign firms are not precluded from the competitions; (v) awards will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and transparent methods; and (vi) bid
evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons for rejecting any responsive bid.
IDA-financed consulting services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by
the Bank, as well as the sample form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of Consultants, will
be used for consultant appointments. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments - i.e., those not exceeding six months, carried by firms or individual consultants.
Procurement implementation arrangements
Each project component would be implemented by a designated agency that would be primarily
responsible for the execution of project activities and for timely delivery of outputs as defined
and agreed under the Project Implementation Plan.
- GIPFZA will be responsible for all consulting services under Component 2, Component 4.1,
and Component 5 with contributions and inputs from the Tenders Board.
53



- GDA will handle all consulting services under Component 3 and Component 4.2, with
contributions and inputs from the Tenders Board.
To avoid delays in the implementation of the Project, and given the limited procurement capacity
of the implementing agencies, it was initially proposed to use the services of the local contract
management agency (Gamworks), under a single-source delegated contract management
agreement, to handle civil works and related consultant services on behalf of GIPFZA. However,
at negotiations the Government expressed its desire to maintain the option of hiring a firm on a
selective basis should the contract with Gamworks exceed $100,000. This firm would handle the
civil works component on behalf of GIPFZA and provide procurement support to each of the
implementing agencies. Given the volume of works and the number of consultant contracts
envisaged under the Project, particularly in the first year of implementation, the core staff of this
firm would include a procurement specialist with extensive knowledge of the World Bank's
procurement procedures. The firm would work with each of the implementing agencies under the
Project to ensure efficient and timely project execution through compliance with the procurement
schedule agreed upon with the Bank. The procurement specialist would (i) update the
procurement plan for the Project; (ii) monitor the progress of procurement; and (iii) help the
implementing agencies with (a) preparing bidding documents and advertisements for goods and
works contracts, and requests for consulting assignment proposals; and (b) bid opening and
evaluation. The procurement specialist would also advise the implementing agencies on
procedural matters.
Procurement capacity assessment
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during the appraisal mission to assess the
capacity of the implementing agencies (Gamworks, GIFZA, and GDA). Gamworks has an
established experience of Bank procurement, and its capacity was found to be satisfactory (See
report in Annex 4). However, given the Government's desire to maintain the option of hiring a
firm on a selective basis if the contract with Gamworks does not materialize, the qualifications of
this firm would also have to be satisfactory to IDA..
A limited assessment of the newly created GIFZA and GDA showed that these implementing
entities needed assistance in the form of (i) training in procurement, especially in the new
features of Bank procedures for selecting consultants; (ii) using consultants to assist in
procurement; (iii) developing a Project Operation Manual (POM) that ensures adequate coverage
of procurement.
Advertising
The draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) was prepared for the Project and will be finalized
and published in Development Business after Board approval. The GPN would be updated yearly
and should show all outstanding ICB for works and goods contracts, as well as for international
consulting assignments.
54



Project Implementation Manual - procurement plan
The Government prepared a draft Project Implementation Manual that includes detailed
procurement procedures. The draft PIM has been reviewed by IDA and will be finalized before
effectiveness.
As part of the Project Implementation Manual, the Borrower has prepared a procurement plan.
The plan includes relevant information on all goods, works, and service contracts to be carried
out under the Project, as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The
procurement schedule would be updated every six months and submitted to IDA. The
procurement specialist would monitor the progress of procurement and implementation of each
contract under the Project and would ensure effective and timely project execution.
The Government gave assurance at the negotiations that it will (i) use the Bank's standard
bidding documents for NCB, the standard Request for Proposals for the Selection of Consultants,
and the standard Bid Evaluation Report; (ii) apply the procurement procedure and arrangement
outlined in these documents; and (iii) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during the
annual review with IDA, and compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA
during implementation with all procurement-related documents; and (iv) during annual reviews
carry out an assessment of the effectiveness of the bidding procedures and performance as they
relate to project procurement experience, and propose for IDA's consideration any modifications
to the current procedures that would accelerate procurement while maintaining compliance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate contract awards and payments.
The PCC will also follow up and monitor the procurement process carried out by the other
agencies through the procurement plans.
Procurement methods
Table A summarized the methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are
fixed in Table B.
Civil works
The project's main civil works component, totaling US$5.71 million, includes roads, buildings,
and sewage. Contractors would be selected under international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. The Bank's standard bidding document - Procurement of Works - would be used for
the contracts.
Goods and equipment
To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased under the Project
would be combined into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and
would be procured under ICB procedures using IDA standard bidding documents. Contracts for
goods available locally for an aggregate amount of US$100,000, with contracts of more than
55



US$30,000 each, would be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB), using
procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped, or standard
specifications commodities for individual contracts costing less than US$30,000 - not exceeding
an aggregate amount of US$100,000 for the life of the Project - would be procured on the basis
of quotations from at least three eligible national suppliers. If these goods are not available in the
country, international shopping procedures would apply.
Consulting services
Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance, promotion of the
project activities, and support of project execution would be carried out in accordance with the
guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines).
As a rule, consultant services would be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more would be advertised in a national newspaper and in Development Business
(IJNDB). In addition, the contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or a
technical magazine seeking "expressions of interest."
In the case of assignments estimated at less than US$100,000, the assignment may be advertised
nationally, and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants, provided that at
least three qualified national firms are available in the country, and foreign consultants who wish
to participate are not excluded from consideration.
Auditors would be selected using least-cost selection procedures. Consulting firms for
assignments estimated to cost less than $50,000 may be hired using the Consultant's
Qualification (CQ) method of selection.
The selection of individual consultant services for small studies and other assignments will be
based on a comparison of curriculum vitae in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants.
The services to be provided for the contract management services on behalf of GIPFZA,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000, will be carried out using single-source selection. For any
contract above US$100,000, a competitive selection process will have to be used.
Investment promotion
The Project provides US$0.5 m for promoting investment, and the Borrower has prepared a
program of promotional activities to be carried out under the Project. The program would
indicate the nature of the promotional activity, the location, the timing, the method of
procurement, and the estimated cost. The program would be submitted to IDA for review and
clearance every six months. The procurement rules defined above for acquisition of goods and
56



equipment, as well as for consulting services, fully apply for any investment promotion-related
activities.
Training
Training within the country and abroad, including twinning arrangements, would be carried out
based on IDA approved programs, which would identify the nature of training, personnel to be
trained, the duration of training, institutions where the training would be conducted, estimated
cost of training, etc. Such programs would be submitted to IDA for review and clearance on an
annual basis. The procurement rules defined above for consulting services fully apply for any
training-related activity.
Operational costs
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred in project implementation,
management, and supervision, including office supplies and rent, communication costs, utilities,
fuel, vehicle maintenance, insurance, audits, investment promotion expenses, and salaries and
travel allowance of GIPFZA staff incurred in carrying out the Project, but excluding salaries of
the Borrower's civil servants.
Prior review thresholds
All works and goods contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be subject to IDA
review of bidding documents, including draft contracts and technical specifications, prior to
inviting bids.
For consultancy contracts with firms with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more, the draft
Request for Proposals (RFP) and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared by IDA prior to
inviting proposals from consultants. In addition, the evaluation of technical proposals must be
cleared with IDA before financial proposals of the qualifying firms are opened.
With respect to each contract employing consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to
the Consultant Guidelines) shall apply.
Contracts for individual consultants with an estimated value of $50,000 or more will be subject
to prior review by IDA.
However, taking into account the limited experience of both GIPFZA, and GDA in procurement
matters, the first three NCB contracts, as well as the first three contracts for the employment of
consulting firms, will be subject to prior review by the Bank at each stage, with a view to
assisting the two agencies in a proper use of World Bank procurement guidelines and standard
bidding documents.
57



The TOR for all consulting assignments, regardless of value, and the selection of auditors would
be subject to IDA's prior review.
Procurement supervision and technical audit
Contracts which are not subject to prior review would be selectively reviewed (1 out of 5) by the
Bank during IDA supervision missions and would be governed by the procedures set forth in
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
The activities of the firm selected under the delegated contract management would be subject to
annual technical audits in addition to the usual financial audits.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure ategory   ICBProcurement            Methodl1.BF             Total
Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB         Other2   ToN.BF        Cost
1. Works                          5.71          0.00         0.00        0.00       5.71
(4.55)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)     (4.55)
2. Goods                          0.00          0.10         0.10        0.00       0.20
(0.00)        (0.07)       (0.07)      (0.00)     (0.14)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00         8.05        0.00       8.05
(0.00)        (0.00)       (7.58)      (0.00)     (7.58)
4. Training                       0.00          0.00         0.70        0.00       0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.60)     _(0.00)     (0.60)
5. Operating Costs                0.00          0.00         1.62        0.00       1.62
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.28)      (0.00)     (1.28)
6. Reimbursement of PPFs          0.00          0.00         1.85        0.00       1.85
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.85)      (0.00)     (1.85)
Total           5.71          0.10         12.32       0.00       18.13
(4.55)         (0.07)      (11.38)     (0.00)     (16.00)
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
58



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 2
Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Expenditure Category       Threshold             Method              Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                            (US$ millions)
1. Works                 100,000 or more           ICB                 All 6.14
2. Goods                 100,000 or more           ICB                  0.00
30,000 - 100,000          NCB           First 3 contracts 0.05
<30,000              IS/NS               Post review
3. Services Consultants
a) Firms                 I00,000 or more    QCBS (Int'l Advert.)       All 8.50
50,000 -100,000   QCBS (Nat'l Advert.)      Post review
<50,000                CQ                Post review
b) Individuals              > 50,000              3 CVs            Prior review 0.15
<50,000               3 CVs              Post review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 'Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
59



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                           4.14             100% of foreign costs
70% of local costs
2. Goods                                  0.13           100% of foreign costs
2. Goods  0.13  70% of local costs
3. Consultant Services                   7.24              70% of local costs
4. Training                               0.58            100% of foreign costs
70% of local costs
5. Operating Costs                        0.84            100% of foreign costs
70% of local costs
6. Reimbursement of PPF                   1.91                  100%
Unallocated                               1.16
Total Project Costs                16.00
Total                              16.00
Disbursement arrangements
Method of disbursements
While operating under traditional disbursement procedures, all disbursements will be fully
documented at the time of submission of withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made
against statement of expenditures (SOEs).
The disbursement percentages shown in Table C take into account the prevailing tax rates in The
Gambia to ensure that taxes are not financed by the association. Table C shows disbursements by
category of expenditure and financing percentages.
The overall project financial management system will include project management reporting
capabilities. However, the staff s lack of previous experience in project management and
implementation does not favor using the PMR-based disbursement method from the beginning of
the Project. Therefore, quarterly PMR, including financial, procurement, and physical progress
will be prepared as soon as the Project is effective. During an interim period of eighteen months,
these PMR will be reviewed, and the financial management capacity will be strengthened. At the
end of the interim period, it is expected that the Project will be capable of producing reliable
PMR that could be used as a basis for disbursement. The capacity of the Project will be
reassessed at the end of the interim period to confirm whether the PMR-based disbursement
method can be used. In the meantime, the Project will follow traditional disbursements methods.
60



Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs)
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be fully documented, except for
(i) contracts of less than US$100,000 for civil works and goods and consulting firms;
(ii) contracts of less than US$50,000 for individual consultants; and (iii) all training programs
and operating costs. GIPFZA will retain all supporting documentation and will make them
available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
Special account allocation and procedures
(i) Special account under traditional disbursement procedures. The Borrower will open a
special account in the Central Bank of The Gambia for IDA's share of eligible expenditures. All
IDA financed expenditures of less than the equivalent of US$100,000 would be paid from the
special account. The authorized allocation would be US$1,000,000, representing about four
months of disbursement. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$500,000 upon credit
effectiveness. Further deposits by IDA would be made into this account against withdrawal
applications supported by appropriate documents. Once payments through the special account
will have totaled SDR4,000,000, the fully authorized amount will be paid. Disbursement of the
IDA Credit would be fully documented. The Borrower will be required to replenish the special
account on a monthly basis or more often when the total disbursed amounts to one-third of the
initial deposit, whichever is soonest.
(ii) Special account for withdrawal made on the basis of PMRs. Upon receipt of each
application for withdrawal of an amount of the credit, the association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the credit account and deposit into the special account an amount
equal to the lesser of (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the association has
determined, based on the PMR accompanying application, is required to be deposited in order to
finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report -
provided that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be
remaining in the special account, shall not exceed the amount of US$1,500,000.
Staffing
The qualification and professional experience, as well the number of the staff at GIPFZA, are
adequate. But given the lack of past experience in World Bank-financed projects, the staff
require training in World Bank financial management policies and disbursement procedures.
Accounting policies and procedures
As already mentioned, the Project will not use the existing government accounting system. The
project financial management system will be part of the GIPFZA system and will therefore be
commercially oriented. At the time of the evaluation, GIPFZA accounting policies and
procedures were not in place yet, given its new creation. However, the terms of reference for the
development of the GIPFZA Project Implementation Manual (PIM) were agreed to at appraisal,
and the manual's preparation, including accounting policies and procedures, is a condition of
61



credit effectiveness. The PIM, including a section on financial management, has already been
drafted.
External audit
There is no overdue audit report for projects in the Bank's portfolio in The Gambia.
The entity's annual financial statements are by law subject to audit by the Auditor General. In
practice, the Auditor General subcontracts the audit to an independent audit firm. The PAD also
specifies that the selection of an auditor for the audit of the entity's financial statements and the
Project's accounts is a condition of effectiveness, and that the auditor and the terms of reference
for the audit must be satisfactory to IDA. The Bank has already approved these terms of
reference, and the selection of the auditor is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Reporting and monitoring
There will be two sets of financial reports: one for the Project and one for GIPFZA as an
autonomous entity. As far as the Project is concerned, there will be quarterly project
management reports and annual financial reports covering all activities financed under the
Project regardless of the source of funding. The quarterly project management reports will cover
financial management, procurement, and physical progress monitoring. The annual project
financial statements will be subject to external audit. GIPFZA's financial reports will be
prepared at least quarterly and annually. The quarterly reports will be mainly on budget
implementation, whereas the annual reports will include a balance sheet and an income
statement. The balance sheet will report on the financial viability of the entity, which is critical to
its sustainability. The income statement will help appreciate the capacity of the entity to generate
enough resources to cover at least its operating expenses and finance its required investments.
GIPFZA's annual financial statements will be audited by independent external auditors. The
terms of reference have already been agreed upon, and the selection of an auditor is a condition
of credit effectiveness.
Information system
GIPFZA will be equipped with a computerized financial management system that will address
both its own and the Project's needs.
62



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                           46
First Bank mission (identification)          01/07/1998          01/07/1998
Appraisal mission departure                  09/17/2001           09/17/2001
Negotiations                                 10/02/2001           10/09/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                04/30/2002
Prepared by:
AFTTR
Preparation assistance:
The recipient received and used a Japan PHRD grant for US$250,000 (TF026331) to contract
consulting services for the following project preparation activities: (i) developing the
institutional framework for the Free Zone through well-focused technical assistance; (ii) carrying
out an Environmental Assessment Study to address all potential project-related negative impacts;
and (iii) designing an Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP) to eliminate, offset, or
reduce adverse environmental impacts.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Michel Audige                        Lead Ports Specialist
Elizabeth Otubea-Adu                 Lead Counsel Operations
Muthoni W. Kaniaru                   Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab                      Disbursement Officer
Irene Xenakis                        Quality Lead Specialist
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye             Financial Management Specialist
Amadou Tidiane Toure, Bourama Diaite  Procurement Specialists
Andre Yves Prevost                   Senior Environmental Specialist
Hovsep Melkonian                     Sr. Disbursement Officer
Shenhua Wang                         Private Sector Specialist
Chad Leechor                         Senior Economist
Robin Sharma                         Private Sector Specialist
Hang N. Sundstrom                    Program Assistant
Myriam Godinot, Vincent Malfere and  ENPC Students
Salim Bouzebouk
63



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan
Draft Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
All aide-memoires and BTOs of World Bank's mission: April 1999, May/June 2000,
May/June 2001.
Financial Management Assessment Report August 2001.
C. Other
Study by The Service Group/EC Harris, 1994
Consulting Services for The Gambia Free Zone Development Strategy, IDI Ltd., 2000
Environmental Impact Assessment Study, Ecolas, October 2000
Environmental and Social Management Plan, Ecolas, July 2001
Detailed Engineering and Project Design Study for the Gambia Free Zones Development
Strategy, Garland Ormond International, 2001
Investment Promotion and Free Zones Act, 2001
Including electronic files
64



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
THE GAMBIA - IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of 12/17/01)
Closed Credits: 24
Active Credits                                Last PSR
Supervision Rating                    Original Amount in US$ Millions
Project  Project Name              Development      Implementation    Fiscal
ID                                  Obiectives         Proaress        Year  IBRD   IDA   GRANT Cancel. Undisb.
P057995 CB for Economic
Management                                                    2002   0.0   15.0     0.0     0.0    15.2
P060329 HIV/AIDS Rapid
Response                       S                 S           2001    0.0   15.0     0.0     0.0    13.9
P057997 Poverty Alleviation &
Capacity Bldg.                 S                 S            1999   0.0   15.0     0.0     0.0     8.4
P035643 Third Education Sector          S                  S           1999    0.0  20.0     0.0     0.0     9.9
P000825 Participatory Health,
Population and Nutrition       S                 U            1998   0.0   18.0     0.0     0.0    12.6
Overall Result                                     Result   0.0  83.0      0.0    0.0     60.0
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)                    20.20
of which has been repaid                  0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)                   172.80
of which has been repaid                 14.30
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)          192.99
of which has been repaid                 14.26
Total Undisbursed (Active)                  59.96
Total Undisbursed (Closed)                   0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)         59.96
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory,
U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23,
1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
65



THE GAMBIA - Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 07/31/01
(In US Dollar Millions)
---------------- Held ------------------  ------------- Disbursed -------------
FY
Approval     Company      Loan   Equity  Quasi  Participation  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Participation
1995/97   AEF KKF IlI/     0.11   0.00     0.00        0.00     0.11    0.00    0.00        0.00
1994      AEF Lyefish 2/   0.36   0.00     0.00        0.00     0.36    0.00    0.00        0.00
1993      AEF Ndebaan 3/   0.20   0.00     0.00        0.00     0.20    0.00    0.00        0.00
Total Portfolio:      0.67   0.00    0.00         0.00    0.60    0.00     0.00       0.00
1/ AEF = African Enterprise Facility (poultry producer)
2/ AEF = African Enterprise Facility (commercial fishing)
3/ AEF = African Enterprise Facility (medical clinic)
66



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
The Gambia at a glance                                                               12/18101
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    The   Saharan      Low-     r
Gambia      Afrlca  Income       Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        1 3      659      2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (At/as method, US$J                    340       480       420
GNI (Atias method, USS billions)                      0.43       313     1,030                       T
Average annual growth. 1994-00                                                                       I
Population (%)                                         3.0       2.6       1 9 
Labor force (%)                                        3 0       2.6       2.4     GN                              Gross
per                            prim ary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               33         34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       53         47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               76         92       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             26                               Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     .        55       76
iliteracy (% of population age 15+)                    63         38       38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  77         7B       96            -      he Gambia
Male                                                 87         85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               67         71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           0.24     0.32      0.42      0.41
Gross domestic investment/GDP                26.7     22.3      17 8      17.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            42.7     59.9      46.0      47.9
Gross domestic savingslGDP                            10.7       3.2       3.8
Gross national savingslGDP                             5.3      13.5      12.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -35.7    -12.8     -11 7     -12.8     Domestic                    Investment
Interest paymentslGDP                         0.2      3 2       1.0       1.3     savings
TotaldebUGDP                                 56.7    1170      101.8     107.7
Total debt servicelexports                    5.3     25 0       6.4       7.7
Present value of debUGDP                                        56.1      60.1
Present value of debtlexports                            -     105.6     107.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.6       3.1      6.4       5.6      59             -     The Gambia
GDP per capita                      -0.1     -0.2      3.4       2.7       3 1                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        1.2     -0.1     -4 2       9.9      10 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         so
Agriculture                                  30.8     29.0      37.9      37.9     40
Industry                                     14.9     13.1      13.4      12.7     20 -       T.
Manufacturing                               5 6      6.6        5.6      5.4 o
Services                                     54.3     57.9      57.5      53.3
Private consumption                                   75.6      83.9      82.5    -40
General government consumption                        13.7      13.0      13.7              -   GDI          GDP
Imports of goods and services               63.6      71.6      60 6      61.0
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   0.9      2.7      16.5       6.2    30-
Industry                                     4.6       1.1       3.6       4 5     20
Manufacturing                               7.8      1.0       3.0       4.0       +_
Services                                      2.7      4.3       4.3       5.1
Private consumption                          -2.4      4.9       6.0       7.2   -20
General government consumption                1.7     -2.4      16.3      14.6   -30
Gross domestic investment                    0.0       1.7      -2.8      37.7            -     Exports     *  Imports
Imports of goods and services                -5.5      0.8      -3.2       6r3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
67



The Gambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     IlatIon(%)
Domestic pricesI
(% change)                                                                      15 I
Consumer prices                              6.8     12.2       3.8      0.9    4                                   _
Implicit GDP deflator                       -0.2     12.0       4.3      3.7                               .     
Go"ernment finance                                                               1
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                                ..    22.3      18.1     19.6           95     96    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                         ..     4.6       0.1      1.3            -    GDP deflator  e    MCPl
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..     -4.1      -4.6     -2.5
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000                                    -
(USS millions)                               8                                   Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           51     108        120      133     250
Groundnuts                                  ..       12         5        5
Fish                                        ..        3         3        3
Manufactures                                         3          3        3 .   159
Total imports (cUi)                         116      134       194       202     DC'
Food                                        ..       10         9        9
Fuel and energy                             ..       19        10       11    s50
CapRtal goods                               ..        2        13       14      0 o   -                          1
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      76        97        98    1
Importprice index (1995=100)                  ,.      76       112       116                m Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    100        87        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1980     1990      1999      2000     Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                71      148       199       212      
Imports of goods and services               156      172       262       270     -2 - 
Resource balance                            -84      -24       -63       -58     - I
Net income                                    -4     -25        -7        -7     5-
Net current transfers                         ..       ..       20        12     -I                 I    I
Current account balance                     -86      -41       -50       -53    -no
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..       53        51     12
Changes in net reserves                     NIA      NIA        -3         3     -14 -
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)      NIA       47       107       114
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUSS)             1.7      7.9      11.6     13.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        137      369       432       447
IBRD                                        0        0         0         0
IDA                                        16      102       166       189              E:75
Total debt service                            4       38        15        18
IBRO                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        1         2        4              f                     e:18
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..       ..       31        33
Official creditors                         30       11         2        21           1
Prhvate creditors                          21       -8         0         0
Foreign direct investment                   ..       6         9         2
Portfolio equity                            ..      ..         0         0                            C: 31
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0       23        35        ..     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               5       10         3         6     B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        0        0         1         2     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netfiows                                    5       10         2         3
Interest payments                           0        1         1         1
Net transfers                               5        9         1         2
Development Economics                                                                                            12118101
68



Annex 11: Letter of Strategic Development Policy
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
Within the context of its reform programs to promote economic growth and poverty reduction,
the Government of The Gambia adopted a medium-term economic and financial program (April,
1998 to March 31, 2001), supported under a three-year arrangement under the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), now Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), by
the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
The Government is further committed to a series of structural reforms, including reform of
external tariffs, improvement in the banking system and deepening of financial intermediation,
public enterprise reform; and modernization of the legal and regulatory framework, including an
appropriate incentive regime necessary for attaining private sector-led growth.
Despite these achievements under the PRGF, the Government considers the development of the
productive capacity of the economy a priority. This is in order to enhance The Gambia's
competitiveness and to reinforce its position in light of increasing globalization and
interdependence in the world economy. In this regard, strong emphasis will continue to be placed
on the development of a vibrant private sector that is more responsive to the challenges of an
internationally competitive business environment.
The long-term development strategy of the Government is enshrined in The Gambia's Vision
2020 document, which aims at a political and socioeconomic transformation of The Gambia into
a highly developed middle-income country by the year 2020. This is to be achieved through a
well-disciplined and highly trained labor force and a vibrant private sector. The strategies for the
implementation of the Vision have now been integrated into our national development programs
in order to effectively monitor, review, and ensure implementation progress.
Private sector development
The Government of The Gambia has recognized the important and increasing role of the private
sector in national development and therefore has accorded priority to the development of the
private sector to enable it to play a more proactive role in the economy. A dynamic private sector
offers better opportunities for generating employment, enhancing technological transfer,
increasing private capital flows, diversifying economic activities, and increasing sources of
Government income opportunities through taxes. In this regard, the Government has initiated and
implemented a number of policy measures during the past six years aimed at capacity building
and creation of a more enabling environment for the private sector. These policy measures, inter
alia, included the development of a National Industrial Policy, establishment of a Trade Policy
Framework and reduction of tariff bands to 4, development of a Competition Policy,
establishment of commercial courts to expedite commercial cases, review of the labor laws and
Dock Workers Scheme, and establishment of an Industrial Tribunal.
Further liberalization of the economy was made by encouraging private foreign exchange
bureaus, as well as the participation of the private sector, in the provision of GSM mobile
69



telephone services in the country. In addition, the Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA) has
recently been established by the Divestiture Act to implement Government's divestiture program
in public enterprises, which will further enhance private sector participation in the economy.
The Government acknowledges the increasing role of the Gambia Chamber of Commerce and
Industry as an advocate for private sector development and also as an interface between
Government and the private sector in our economic development. In this regard, the Government
will continue to strengthen the capacity of the Chamber in order to be more effective and
responsive to the challenges of the private sector and national economic development. This
commitment has been demonstrated by the holding of the first Economic Summit, jointly
organized by the Department of State for Trade, Industry and Employment and the Chamber, to
discuss issues of greater importance to our economic development. The success of the summit
has given rise to holding an Economic Forum annually and establishing a private sector
foundation with the desired objectives of enhancing a common understanding on economic
policies and programs of the Government.
The Gambia Trade Gateway Project
The Trade Gateway Project of the Government of the Gambia, initiated with the World Bank,
has the policy objective of making The Gambia competitive in the global economy through the
establishment of sustainable and competitive export-oriented enterprises and processing centers.
The Gateway Project has the following objectives:
. Establishing a self-sustaining Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zones Agency
(GIPFZA)
* Marketing and facilitating local and foreign investments in well targeted economic sectors
* Developing an eight-hectare pilot Free Zone (FEZ) at the airport, including a "one-stop shop"
investment promotion center, and laying the foundation for a second thirty-hectare Free Zone
area
* Building business and technical skills among private and public sector actors
* Promoting privately financed and operated FEZ-related businesses, including teleport
services
* Facilitating administrative procedures for private enterprises creation, investment, and
operations in tourism, trade services, and agriculture sub-sectors
* Assisting the Government to implement its divestiture strategy
* Modernizing ports and airport services and streamlining customs clearance procedures
. Mitigating any social and/or environmental impacts that could result from  project
implementation
* Establishing a better interface between the FEZs and the population along the Gambia River
in order to maximize efficient use of the river as a potential source of economic development.
The overall objective of the Gateway Project is to actualize The Gambia Incorporated Vision
2020 of the Government, which aims at transforming the country from one of the least developed
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa into a middle-income one with a vibrant private sector open to
the world.
70



This development strategy is to be attained by expanding and deepening a fast-growing tourism
sector, increasing productivity and diversification in agriculture and manufacturing, and
developing internationally linked services, based on improved port and airport facilities and a
modern financial center. The strategy will focus on public sector reforms, private sector
promotion, and creation of a positive image within the international trade and export community.
It is anticipated that with the attainment of the above objectives and strategies, the Gateway
Project will make significant contributions to our economic development through increased
employment and income earning opportunities, as well as increased infrastructure and services,
and hence will spell a long-term prospect for socioeconomic development and prosperity for The
Gambia.
Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zones Agency (GIPFZA)
The Government of the Gambia has recently established the Gambia Investment Promotion and
Free Zones Agency (GIPFZA) under the Trade Gateway Project. The agency, which is to be self-
financing, is responsible for private sector development in the country. The agency serves as a
"one-stop shop" for investors by providing them services as follows:
*  Providing information about investment opportunities and the incentive package for investors
*  Supporting and guiding investors in their registration and establishment procedures
*  Assisting investors in securing permission, exemption, authorization, license, land or any
other thing required for establishing and operating a business enterprise
*  Advising investors on the preparation of project proposals
*  Assisting investors in the identification of partnerships and joint ventures
*  Providing after care services to ensure sustainability of businesses
*  Advising on suitable technology
*  Assisting in accessing training opportunities.
Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA)
In order to reduce Government intervention in the provision of services and to enhance private
sector participation in the economy, the Gambia Divesture Agency has recently been established
to implement the Government's divestiture program in relation to public enterprises, and in
particular the following major enterprises:
Under the Trade Gateway Project, the GDA will be provided technical assistance not only to
undertake an independent assessment of the public enterprises slated for divestiture but also the
divestiture of other Governrnent investments, so as to implement the Government's divestiture
program in an efficient and transparent manner.
Given the mandate to promote investments in the country, the GIPFZA will cooperate with all
institutions that have an important role and a shared responsibility for private investments in the
country. The GPA and the GCAA will continue to complement the efforts of GIPFZA in export
development and will be provided assistance under the Project to improve their operational
efficiency with emphasis on opening their services to the private sector in order to achieve
international competitiveness for The Gambia. The GDA will further reinforce GIPFZA within
the context of the Government's divestiture program for public enterprises.
71



The preservation of our environment is high on our national development agenda, and all efforts
will be made to ensure that the industrial development of the Gambia is consistent with our
existing environmental management and preservation program. In this regard, an Environmental
Impact Assessment of the project and an Environmental and Social Management Plan have been
prepared by Government. Notices have already been placed in public places, including
Divisional Commissioners' offices in the country, for the public to contest against any potential
environmental mitigation under the project. GIPFZA will continue to collaborate with the
National Environment Agency to ensure compliance with environmental standards for all
developments under the project. A Memorandum of Understanding between GIPFZA and NEA
has been signed for this purpose.
In order to better coordinate the activities of the project, the Government has put in place a
Project Coordination Unit under the Department of State for Trade, Industry and Employment,
and a Coordinating Committee comprising the Departments of State for Trade, Industry and
Employment (DOSTIE) and Finance and Economic Affairs (DOSFEA), GDA, and GIPFZA.
Signed by Hon. Musa H. Sillah,
Secretary of State,
Department of State for Trade, Industry and Employment
December 12, 2001
72



Annex 12: Environmental/Social Assessment and Management
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
A.    Overview
1.    Background. One of the poorest countries in Africa, The Gambia faces the same
challenges as most African countries trying to attract private investment and trade - namely, the
perceived lack of a stable and investor-friendly environment, limited access to markets and
resources, and poor and expensive infrastructure services. The Government strategy, consistent
with its long-term development program formulated in the Vision 2020 document, addresses
these issues through the restructuring of the public sector and the stimulation of the private
sector.
2.    Government's strategy for the public sector focuses on (i) improving the structure of
government revenue and expenditure and, thereby, reducing domestic debt and import tariffs;
(ii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the public administration; (iii) reforming public
administration to foster good governance and efficiency in providing public services;
(iv) resuming public enterprise reform; and (v) reforming the energy sector.
3.    Government's strategy for the private sector consists of (i) resuming and deepening
structural reforms tailored to encourage private sector development, attract foreign investment,
and facilitate economic diversification; (ii) streamlining business regulations and improving the
legal and judicial environment for economic activities, including the investment incentive system
(The Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zones Acts of 2000); and (iii) deepening financial
intermediation and upgrading the banking system and its regulatory and prudential framework.
B.    Gateway Project
4.    Proposed Project. The purpose of the Gateway Project is to enable The Gambia to
establish itself as a globally competitive export and processing center. It will therefore help the
Government of The Gambia to implement some of its strategies by (i) helping to establish a
world-class business climate and increase Foreign Direct Investment in The Gambia;
(ii) improving the competitiveness of trade-related services (port, airport, customs, and services
providers); (iii) attracting new private activities through the implementation of a Free Zone
development strategy in the area of Banjul; and (iv) fostering existing private sector activities.
This project is phased, and its first stage (2002-2007) assemble the physical and institutional
foundations for establishing The Gambia as a credible player in the world trade arena by building
a favorable business environment and launching an operational Free Zone (FZ).
5.    Project description. The project has five components:
Component A.- Physical investment for a new Free Zone at the airport will establish the physical
infrastructure needed for an operational Free Zone (FZ) at the airport.
73



Component B. Establishment of an Investment Promotion and Free Zone Agency will support the
newly created Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zone Authority (GIPFZA) as a self-
sustaining entity that manages the FZs and promotes trade and investment.
Component C. Support to The Gambia Divestiture Agency will support the Government's agenda
for privatization through the Gambia Divestiture Agency.
Component D: Capacity building includes training activities for both the public and private
sectors directly involved in Investment and Free Zone-related businesses, in the divestiture
process, or in the regulation of divested enterprises.
Component E: Project management and social/environmental management includes funds for
(i) overall project management; and (ii) environmental studies and mitigation measures.
C.    Environmental Assessment
6.    Study. Evaluation of environmental issues has been an integral part of planning and
design studies undertaken by the Government of The Gambia to support identification,
preparation, implementation, and operation of the Project. The Gateway Task Force, in charge of
project preparation, has begun preparing an Environmental Assessment (EA), with the assistance
of the international consulting firm ECOLAS, including an Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP). Although the Environmental Assessment final report was available
in October 2000, it was decided that the ESMP needed improvements to better address the World
Bank's and NEA's concerns, and a revised ESMP was produced in July 2001.
7.    Policy and legislative framework. The Environmental Assessment and Environmental
and Social Mitigation Plan have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of (i) the
Government of The Gambia, including the procedures of the National Environment Agency, and
(ii) the procedures of the World Bank, including Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment."
8.    Environmental Assessment. A detailed Environmental Assessment in compliance with
the provisions of OD 4.01 for a Category A project has been prepared. It includes an analysis of
planning and design alternatives, development of an environmental mitigation and monitoring
plan, and extensive public consultation. During the preparation process, the proposed enabling
works at the Bund Road Site near the port of Banjul that were initially part of Component 1 were
dropped, because otherwise this would have meant (i) adverse impacts in a site proposed for a
RAMSAR designation; and (ii) uneconomic engineering to cope with unsuitable soil
geotechnical characteristics and the flood-prone feature of the area. The Environmental
Assessment focused more on activities under Component 1 because of large civil works, and
only indirectly on Component 2.
9.    Participatory approach. Extensive consultations were made during the redaction of
both EA and ESMP. Consultations brought in Government agencies, including the National
Environment Agency, local communities, and nongovernmental agencies. Noteworthy in the
consultation process were two stakeholders' seminars. The first one was held in June 2000 to
present and discuss the first findings of the Environmental Assessment. In addition, in order to
74



present and discuss publicly the two documents, a consultative meeting was held at the
Senegambia Beach Hotel on 26th June, 2001. As a follow-up to the consultative meeting, a
three-week public review process was launched in early July, 2001. The documents were placed
in all the administrative commissioners' offices and municipalities, as well at the National
Assembly and the National Library. NEA then collated the public comments and sent them to the
consultants for their final ESMP report.
10.   Potential environmental impacts. The Environmental Assessment found that the
greatest potential environmental impacts will occur during the operational phase. Impact
screening included the following:
(i)   Construction impacts. Temporary impacts from the construction phase of the proposed
Project include: (i) noise and dust  from  construction  activities; (ii) terrestrial wildlife
disturbance and flora deterioration from clearing the site; (iii) minor impact on freshwater
aquatic life; (iv) minor conflict in land use; and (v) transport congestion.
(ii)  Operational impacts. The potential operational impacts associated with the Project
include all impacts that can be expected from industrial activities: (a) air quality deterioration;
(b) surface, ground, and sea water pollution; (c) increased water scarcity; (d) waste production;
(e) noise; (f) impacts on terrestrial wildlife and flora and freshwater aquatic life; (g) land use
changes; (h) transport; and (i) socioeconomic effects.
11.   Analysis of alternatives. Five alternative sites considered for implementation of the
Project were studied for environmental and social impacts in the EA - the airport site, Bund
Road, Denton Bridge, Kuloro, and Sukuta. From this assessment and the development of the
TGP, two sites have emerged as priority sites for implementation: Bund Road and the airport.
These two sites have been examined exhaustively, without, however, excluding the three
alternative sites. Many of the impact assessment analysis, prevention, mitigation, and monitoring
measures could apply to these sites as well. Apart from moderate effects on habitat and wildlife,
solid waste production, and noise, the airport site appeared to be a suitable place for FZ
development. The assessment shows minor effects in the other environmental compartments
identified above, while a significant improvement of the social and economic conditions of local
communities may be expected. Notwithstanding its potential designation as a RAMSAR site
(Cf. paragraph 8), the Bund Road site would be a suitable alternative for FZ development at a
short distance from the city and port of Banjul, since this location would not involve
compensating or resettling private owners or converting a critical natural habitat. In regard to
environmental development at Denton Bridge, the Environmental Assessment concluded that
this would be the most negative of all because of inadmissible effects on the coast ecosystem.
Both Kuloro and Sukuta sites may rightly be considered suitable reservation sites for future
development, and their rejection is mainly based on socioeconomic considerations, including the
absence of basic infrastructure at Kuloro.
D.    Environmental and Social Management Plan
12.   Environmental and Social Management Plan. As part of the EA, the consultants and
Project Task Force have prepared an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) in
consultation with the National Environment Agency. For the reason explained above, it only
75



focuses on development of the airport site. Regulating, monitoring, and enforcing requires the
presence of a clear reference frame to assess activities and their impacts. NEA should identify
the additional needs, propose detailed regulation, and ensure its implementation. Another basic
principle in the ESMP is having the polluter pay for pollution, or the environmental and social
degradation or problems the activities may cause. This includes not only the off-setting,
remedying, or prevention of negative impacts, but also to contribute to analyzing, studying, and
monitoring impacts on the natural and social environment. Mitigation actions would focus on
environmental supervision of the construction contractors and institutional set-up to assess and
monitor environmental impacts of FZ-settled enterprises. The ESMP exhaustively details its key
mitigation activities in a matrix format on pages 39 to 49 of the ESMP.
(i)     Construction phase. Measures to reduce potential construction phase impacts will be
implemented through provisions in design and construction tenders, consideration of these issues
in the construction process, and performance monitoring. Mitigation measures include (a) control
of air quality impacts, especially dust; (b) actions to control noise from construction activities;
(c) erosion and water management; (d) landscaping of the zone to reduce its visual impact; and
(e) clear guidelines for disposing waste materials.
(ii)    Operation phase. The      Project ESMP     addresses major concerns through        (a) the
implementation of the waste management plan; (b) the creation of a 200m wide buffer zone
between the industrial sites and residential areas; (c) the prevention of spills; (d) the provision of
waste water treatment; and (e) quality control and permits issuance. In addition, because of the
high uncertainty surrounding the type and scale of companies to settle in the FZ, a clear
framework has been elaborated to screen proposals from industrial developers (Chart 1).
Promoter submits proposed activity to NEA
for environmental and social screening
I
NEA
Assesses whether the proposed activity is sufficiently covered
by the TGP EIA and ESMP in terms of environmental and
social safeguarding requirements
NEA and promoter agree on           NEA imposes additional EIA and
specific mitigation and                     EMP
monitoring planl                  
Promoter implements ESMP           Promoter implements additional EIA
for the specific activity        and prepares EMP for the specific
activity
NAcontrols mitigatio
and monitoring
Chart 1. ESMP Flow. The term promoter' refers to the instance undertaking the specific activity, such as
DOSTIE or a private investor
76



13.   Additional Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management
Plan for specific activities. In case the proposed activity has a potentially significant negative
environmental or social impacts not (sufficiently) covered by the Project ESMP, the NEA will
require the promoter to carry out an additional assessment of the environmental and social
impacts, and to prepare an additional EMP for the proposed activity according to the NEA
requirements. The flow Chart 2 shows the different phases and corresponding activities to be
undertaken in preparing any additional EIA and EMP. The additional EIA and EMP will focus
on elements that are new and not part of the Project EA. Based on World Bank's guidelines, a
precise description of what the EIA report should include is given on pages 29 to 35 of the
Project ESMP.
14.   Environmental Monitoring Plan. The NEA, in close cooperation with GIPFZA, would
supervise the Environmental Monitoring Plan implementation of the ESMP, with the timely
assistance of environmental consultants. Environmental monitoring would be done by the
different agencies and government services in charge during the construction and operation
phases to check the accuracy of the impact analysis, evaluate effectiveness of mitigation
measures, and respond to unanticipated environmental impacts. A matrix on pages 56 to 66 of
the ESMP details parameters of concern and their analysis methodology.
15.   Estimated cost for the ESMP. The consultants, in coordination with the NEA, have
prepared cost estimates for implementation of the ESMP. The costs for implementation of the
environmental elements of the mitigation plan during the construction phases have been included
in the cost estimates for these activities. The promoter - DOSTIE/GIPFZA - or the private
investor will bear the cost of the implementation of the ESMP. Notwithstanding the above and
based on the ESMP financial plan (page 77 of the report), the Project provides funding for
(i) periodic Environmental Assessments (Component E2, item 1: US$380,000); (ii) mitigation
measures (Component E2, item 2: US$320,000); (iii) technical training for monitoring and
mitigation; and (iv) EIA training as part of the GIPFZA-managed training package (Component
DI, item 1: US$150,000).
16.   Integration of the GP EA with the Project objectives. The ESMP was conceived on
the basis of a close interaction between the promoting agency, GIPFZA, and the environment
agency, NEA, at all stages of the Project. All stages of project implementation should build on a
consensus between GIPFZA and NEA, and the safeguarding of the natural and social
environment should be addressed at all stages of project development. As mentioned above, the
implementation of the ESMP must not become a burden for genuine environmentally and
socially sound projects or activities. The NEA is to guide GIPFZA and individual promoters on
environmental and social safeguarding in project-related activities; NEA's position should be one
of service provided to the developers. The NEA should work out together with
DOSTIE/GIPFZA operational procedures and guidelines for the implementation of the ESMP.
These should be rigid in regard to the quality requirements for the environmental and social
assessment and management process, but flexible and service-oriented for the timing. In this
way, the environmental and social safeguarding should not significantly delay the
implementation of development or investment activities. A specific agreement should be worked
out, limiting the time for initial review of proposed activities and investments at the Project site
77



by NEA to no more than three weeks. Any further delay may be crucial to maintaining the
competitiveness of the Gambia Gateway Project.
E.    Reporting and supervision
17.   Reporting. As an element of Project reporting requirements, GIPFZA would prepare
routine reports about progress in implementing activities related to environment included under
the ESMP, and activities for policy study and training. The reports should contain information on
consultant performance, status of actions, and expenditures, and should identify issues requiring
resolution. As necessary, supplemental reports with greater detail than the routine reports would
also be prepared on these topics.
18.   Project supervision. The supervision plan for the proposed Project would include
participation of World Bank environmental staff, or appropriately qualified consultants, in major
missions to review progress in implementing the ESMP and EMPs. The performance of
GIPFZA, cooperating Government agencies, consulting engineers, and construction contractors
in the implementation of these activities under the Project would be a standard element of Project
supervision reports and included in the Mid-Term Review and the Implementation Completion
Report.
78



0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0 
E v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
oz  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E 0~~~~ 
dd%,          C14~0~
F    D



Annex 13: Supervision and Implementation Schedules
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
IDA Supervision Plan
Mission                Timing Skills required
Launching mission       Jun-02 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Private Sector Specialist
Environment Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Financial Specialist
Semi-annual misison     Dec-02 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Procurement Specialist
Private Sector Specialist
Semi-annual mission     Jun-03 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Financial Specialist
Environment Specialist
Semi-annual misison     Dec-03 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Procurement Specialist
Private Sector Specialist
Semi-annual mission     Jun-04 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Financial Specialist
Environment Specialist
Semi-annual misison     Dec-04 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Procurement Specialist
Private Sector Specialist
Mid-Term review         Mar-05 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Financial Specialist
Private Sector Specialist
Financial Specialist
Environment Specialist
Semi-annual misison     Dec-05 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Procurement Specialist
Private Sector Specialist
Semi-annual mission     Jun-06 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Financial Specialist
Environment Specialist
Semi-annual misison     Dec-06 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Procurement Specialist
Private Sector Specialist
Completion mission       Jun-07 Task Team Leader (TTL)
Financial Specialist
I_____ _  _ Environment Specialist
80



Implementation Schedule
2002     2003     1              5
T2y3y4 ~    ~     3    r
A Physical InvesTent for a new Free Zone at the airport                   _
1. FZ Infrastructure
Enabling works
Fencing & access roads
Comrnon utilities
Cormrmon users warehouse                                                      LI__    _L                  U_ _
Consultant services for supervision of mrks
Subtotal FZ Infrasftuture                                                                II2
2. Equipment for one-stop shop Building
B. Establishemernt of an InvesbTo Promrotion and Free Zorne Agency
1. GIPFZA Operational Support
GIPFZA Operating Costs
Legal advisor
Investmnwt Promotion (advertisements, fairs, ...)T
Website development and Maintenance
OfFce Equipment and Vehides        Pl                                               IE        I      Ii
Subtotal GPFZA Operational Support                                   11111        lFlil 
2. Technical assistance to GIPFZA
Consulting servioes for GIPFZA Business Plan
Transfer of ' Inow hoaW"
Assistanoe to GI PFZA managerrent                                                               I       I
Managerment Infrmiation System                                     m 
SubtotalTechnical assistance to GlPE4 :Zl
3. M      arket Surveys and Marketing Plan
Market Surveys
GIPFZA Marketing Plan                                                       r        rmr
Subtotat Abr1ret Surveys and hbrketrng Plan
4. Investment Promotion (consultancy)
5. Studies
Design of Interface River-Free Zone
Trade & Fadlitation Survey
IMS Audit at Custons & Excise Department
Subtota Studiss|||||1                                                                   1
C. Support to the Gannbia Divestiture Agency
1, Divestiture Supporwt
Fnancial andTechnicalAssessrnentofTrack I Pes (Transport and Telecom)
Divestiture of Track I Pes
Divestiture of Track II PEs
Subtotal Divefftum Support
2. Divestiture Safeguarding and Mrnitormng
Ret ench   grient and Compensation Frainerkg
Environmental audit of Divested PEs
Subtotl Divestture Safeguarding and Monitoring                             II_
3. Divestiture Consensus Building
Domestic public consensus building
Intemational Privatization Investment Carpaign
Website developnent and Maintenance                                                                            I
Subtotal Divestiture Consensus Building
81



D. Capacity Building
1. Training for Stakeholders (GIPFZA)
Training Activities for the Public Sector
Training Activities for the Private Sector
Subtota Traning for Stakhoddrs (G1PFZA)
2. GDA Capacdty Building
Prvatization advisors
Training on privatization, regulatory issues, sector policy reforms
Study Tours for stakeholders on specific program elerents
World Banks Project Managemrent                                I            _
Subtotal GDA CapadtyBudlcng
3. Regulatory and Institutional Set-Up for divestiture
4. Training for the PCU
E Prject and Environmental Managerent
1. Project Management
2. Environmental and Social Management (GIPFZA)
Periodic Environmental and Social assessments
Environment mitiaon measures
Sual EnWronntmiti       and Someas  M arg1 (GIPFZ1
82



Annex 14: GIPFZA Budget Forecast 2002-2006
THE GAMBIA: GATEWAY PROJECT
During project preparation, budget forecasts were calculated in order to get a better sense of the
agency's financial perspectives. There were two objectives: (i) coming up with a realistic
scenario to reach self-sustainability in 2006; and (ii) better quantifying the operating budget gap
the Project will finance during the first years of GIPFZA's operations.
This was done through (i) a precise work on staffing and operating expenditures for the years
2001 and 2002; (ii) assumptions on how this staffing and these operating expenditures will
evolve within the lifetime of the Project; and (iii) basic assumptions on how revenues will be
raised from 2002 to 2006, and what rate can possibly be used.
1. Operating expenditures
1. I Staffing
The agency will propose to the Board for end-2001 a new staffing of eighteen:
(i) Directorate
Chief executive officer
Private secretary
Driver
(ii) Marketing & Investment
Director
Manager
Driver
(iii) Free Zones
Director
Manager
Driver
(iv) Finance & Administration
Director
Secretary/Administration (DAF & DMI)
Manager
Driver
Receptionist/telephone operator
Utility driver
Messenger
Cleaners (2)
Staffing is not expected to grow the first two years (2002 and 2003), particularly because of the
full-time technical assistance that will be provided to the agency during the lifetime of the
Project. A first staff increase (by two) is expected in 2004 when the airport Free Zone will be
operational. A second (by three) may take place in 2006 when the one-stop shop building is
constructed.
83



Subject to Board approval, the salary levels in 2002 are expected to reach those offered in similar
institutions bearing similar challenges (e.g., GAMWORKS).
1.2 Other operating expenditures
For all other operating expenditures, an inflation rate of 10 percent has been used on the 2001
baseline costs.
2. Revenues
2.1 Licensing fee
The baseline scenario consists in issuing five new licenses per year during the life span of the
Project. In 2002 and 2003, licenses are expected to be issued only to firms out of the airport
zone, since the Free Zone will not be operational until the end of 2003.
The licensing fee, payable each year, has been set at US$1,000 in reference to fees established in
other Free Zones worldwide.
2.2 Lease of land
It is expected that from 2003 to 2007, at least 1.7 additional hectares per year will be leased at
the airport FZ. This figure is based on the assumption that there will be one new tenant per year
(out of the five licenses issued each year, four would be for firms outside the airport FZ, and one
would be for a firm inside the zone), renting an average industrial area of less than two hectares.
This hypothesis is conservative because a private developer may come on board and rent much
more than 2 ha., and 2 ha. may represent the lower limit in matters of average industrial setting
surface.
Land leasing is expected to start before the physical investments at the airport are completed,
because a developer leasing land is thought to be coming in the early stage of the Project (2003).
For the sake of competitiveness, the lease rate has been set low at $US 5.50 per m2 per year, to
be compared with the US$10 the Gambia Port Authority (GPA) charges near the port. Again this
hypothesis is conservative.
2.3 Lease of common user warehouse space
Since a common user warehouse will be financed by the Project, and will be completed in 2003,
revenues will be raised for leasing space in this 1,000 square meter warehouse.
To promote investment, the lease rate has been set very low at US$10 per square meter per year,
compared to the US$20 GPA charges for such a facility.
84



2.4 Other sources of revenues
Revenues could possibly be raised from teleport activities or services provided (water,
electricity, etc.). Because these revenue sources have not been discussed yet, nor quantified, it
was agreed not to take them into account in the computation.
3. Projected budget
Based on these assumptions, the following results were obtained:
Operating costs
2002     2003     2004     2005     2006
Salaries                        1,612,800 1,612,800 1,712,800 1,792,000 1,942,000
Allowances                        471,240  471,240  481,800  481,800  497,640
SSHFC contribution                249,027  273,930  301,323  331,456  364,601
Bonus                             415,046  456,550  502,205  552,426  607,668
Stationery & office supplies      169,714  186,686  205,354  225,890  248,479
Fuel & lubricants                 188,571  207,429  228,171  250,989  276,087
Vehicle insurance &licenses       160,286  176,314  193,946  213,340  234,674
Repairs & maintenance             141,429  155,571  171,129  188,241  207,066
Telephones, faxes & e-mail        169,714  186,686  205,354  225,890  248,479
Electricity & water               179,143  197,057  216,763  238,439  262,283
Training materials                 47,143   51,857   57,043   62,747   69,022
Rents                             264,000  290,400  319,440  351,384  386,522
Short-term outsourcing services   188,571  207,429  228,171  250,989  276,087
Medical insurance                 339,429  373,371  410,709  451,779  496,957
Injuries compensation (SSHFC)       8,301    9,131   10,044   11,049   12,153
Bank charges                       28,286   31,114   34,226   37,648   41,413
Postages                           18,857   20,743   22,817   25,099   27,609
Public relations                  188,571  207,429  228,171  250,989  276,087
Board allowances                   80,850   88,935   97,829  107,611  118,372
TOTAL OPERATING BUDGET
(in Dalasi)                     4,922,980 5,206,675 5,629,299 6,051,770 6,595,207
In US$                            289,587  306,275  331,135  355,986  387,953
85



Revenues
Licenses                     5,000       10,000      15,000     20,000   25,000
Lease of land                    0       93,500     187,000    280,500  374,000
Lease of common user
warehouse space                  0           0            0     10,000   10,000
TOTAL REVENUES
BUDGET In US$                5,000      93,500      202,000    310,500  409,000
Balance in US $           (284,587)   (202,775)    (129,135)  (45,486)   21,047
The following chart shows that the assumptions made will achieve the steady trend towards self-
sustainability:
GIPFZA Projected Budget
500,000
400C000
300.000
200,O00_0     r  ;^>                    $ 
100,000
(100,000)
(200,000)
(300,000)    7--          7 t1 t 
(400,000)                ..
Operating Costs  Rewnues   Revenues minus Operating Costs
4. Bank's funding of GIPFZA operating costs (Component B.1)
During its first five years of operations, GIPFZA's operating activities will need to be supported.
To this end, the Project will have to fill the gap between operating costs and revenues.
86



The Project contribution to GIPFZA's operating costs will decrease as GIPFZA raises its
revenues, as shown below:
Year 2002                 300,000
Year 2003                 200,000
Year 2004                 100,000
Year 2005                   50,000
The Bank's overall contribution to GIPFZA's operating costs is 40 percent. The remaining 60
percent will come from the revenues GIPFZA raises.
5. Sensitivity analysis
The future revenues of GIPFZA are uncertain. Indeed, they will be determined by the market and
may vary greatly depending on the rates the private sector will be willing to pay for FZ land or
warehouse space, as well as on the global attractiveness of The Gambia as a place to invest.
Therefore, it has been felt that a sensitivity analysis using a risk management software could help
quantify the risk of GIPFZA not being financially sustainable at the end of the Trade Gateway
Project.
The hypotheses for this sensitivity analysis were set to illustrate the conservative feature of the
above assumptions. They were the following:
Number of new licenses issued each project year. This is to be cautiously related to the
assumptions made in Annex 4 because it is not exactly the same kind of assumption. Indeed,
Annex 4 deals with the number of new businesses related to the FZ, whereas here we deal with
the number of new FZ licenses issued. The assumption is made that, after the first two years of
the Project, the Free Zone may reach its "cruise speed" of around 4-5 licenses a year.
04                                    0.35
0.35                       '0 . .3 >vo 
0.3 ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    0
30.25
025                                      02
o. 0.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
3D     4           6l                    3       4       2       6
New licenses in 2002 and 2003         New licenses In 2004, 2005 and 2006
Number of new hectares leased each project year: normal distribution with a mean at 2.5 hectares
and a standard deviation at 1.5
Rate for lease of FZ land: uniform distribution from 5 to 8 US$ per sq. m.
Rate for lease of public warehouse space: uniform distribution from 9 to 15 US$ per sq. m.
87



Based on these assumptions, 5000 trials have been computed using the Monte-Carlo
methodology. This computation has resulted in the following frequency chart:
Forecast: Balance 2006
5,000 Trials              Frequency Chart              52 Outliers
024 -_                                              118
co
. ~ 012  ................ .... .. .................. ......... . 59 
.D ~~~~~~~~~~~=
coI!
& 006  ................                            ....  29.5
.000            .,0
-216,166   53,973     324,111    594,250    864,388
Certainty is 95.74% from 0 to +Infinity US$
It clearly indicates that, based on the conservative assumptions made (especially with regard to
the average surface of FZ land leased), GIPFZA's revenues will cover its costs in 2006 (certainty
of 95.7 percent).
Rank correlation coefficients (number between -1.0 and +1.0 that measures the strength of a
relationship) also give an understanding of what the key factors in the success or failure of
GIPFZA will be. They are the following:
Factor                          iCorrelatlon rank
Number of hectares leased in 2003      0.42
Number of hectares leased in 2004      0.45
Number of hectares leased in 2005      0.43
Number of hectares leased in 2006      0.40
Number of licenses issued in 2002     -0.01
Number of licenses issued in 2003     -0.01
Number of licenses issued in 2004      0.01
Number of licenses issued in 2005      0.01
Number of licenses issued in 2006      0.00
Rate for lease of FZ land              0.45
Rate for public warehouse space       -0.43
As expected, the most important factors are the ones related to the lease of FZ land (surface
leased and rate of lease). The number of licenses actually issued turns out to have much less
impact on the budget of GIPFZA.
88



MAP SECTION






THE GAMBIA
Map Design Unit of The Worldi Bank.         BANJU L INTERNATIONAL AlIRPORT                             EPZ    SITE
____             ~~~~~The boundaries, col ors, denoininations      BOUNDARY OF GCAA LANDS AT BANJUL INTERNATiONAL AIRPORT
7                  ~~~~~~CGAA AIRPORT EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE (EPZ)
tt.u  :..,                   _____ ~~~~~GCAA AIRPORT EXPORT PROCESSING ZONE (REDZ)
GA  _                          su 'Bk -IAi                                      BUILT-UP AREAS, URBAN AREAS               0     50    10     50    20
Ec.                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTITUTIONS, GOVERNMENT, MILITARY  I  I I    I
PFEET
INDUSTRIAL
~j  SCRUB, FOREST         NotIm This map is baned on an extract from the 'Land Use PI.e 2000" mop br,
the Greter Boniul area as prepared by the Ministry for Local Governmen, 1988.
3'         1 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~-MANGROVES                    It indlicates existing and proposed dlevelpment zonings c-rrnt at the dote of
issue. it does not necessarily represent en accurate survey of octu.1 ground
S E N  E G A L                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS  conditions. The proposed EPZ and REDZ zones indicatedl oe the GCAA IGombia
Civi Aviation Authority) lands at the oirport are based an infarmation supplied
SECONDARY ROADS       by the GCAA, October 1999.
o - a                                       ' ,6  1,,.r
Bo ...ilHE.GAM6         * -as,
-      - -   - - - -  -   -       - -n-a -JnJ
16'45'                 16'AO                 16'35                .            .1'.. .  , E,tn                                         .a
0 1,  2  3FAJARA             t     *
,~~~T!.Aill 7 IC,            7-                    '.                                             S
/i Tl. A  NBC  I~~~~~~~~~  -                    5' *.bI't,,.~~~~~~~~~  *,  PEIA$~~~~~~             FUTURE PEZF AREAFEZARE
7,   jESWANG                                                         PKA     I
OCEA N                            A4
1 3'25                          /                                        13'25'                         \ 
BANJUL Dir    JUC
TAt.                  ~~~~~~YUNDUi A  INTERNATIONALI
K   IRPOR~T
-32'  -                  ~~~~~~~       ~       ~~BUSUMBA A.aPE ~I ,:: rk)m..I
For detaii see
TLtjEkIl~      ASAEtLIf5  -  - -- mwp at right.
mokurrbcs
P.401r%uljAE NDING
>~~~~~~~--               JAM4BANJALI   t'Q                    63                       cr'tt 
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



