Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3606 GM
Project Agreement
(Gateway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE GAMBIA INVESTMENT PROMOTION AND FREE ZONES AGENCY
Dated March 21, 2002
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3606 GM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 21 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and THE GAMBIA INVESTMENT PROMOTION AND 
FREE ZONES AGENCY (GIPFZA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The Republic of The Gambia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,400,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GIPFZA agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
GIPFZA, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to GIPFZA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS GIPFZA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GIPFZA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
Page  3
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and GIPFZA shall otherwise agree, GIPFZA shall carry out Parts A, B, 
D.1 and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for Parts A, B, D.1 and E of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) GIPFZA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, D.1 and E of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, GIPFZA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and GIPFZA, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
GIPFZA on said plan.
Section 2.04. GIPFZA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GIPFZA shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) GIPFZA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with 
the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, D.1 and E of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
GIPFZA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, D.1 and E of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GIPFZA of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GIPFZA
Section 3.01. GIPFZA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. GIPFZA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
environmental practices.
Section 3.03. GIPFZA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GIPFZA shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures for 
and in connection with carrying out Parts A, B, D.1 and E of the Project.
(b)
GIPFZA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
Page  5
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.01 (a) and (b), and as provided in 
Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, GIPFZA shall prepare consolidated financial 
statements for the Project in its entirety, and cause such statements to be audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, GIPFZA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable GIPFZA, not later than 18 months from the Effective Date, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable 
to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) this Section, 
GIPFZA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
Page  6
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of GIPFZA 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify GIPFZA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For GIPFZA:
Page  7
Gambia Investment Promotion and Free Zones Agency
Duwa Jabbi Building
5 Nelson Mandela Street
Banjul
Facsimile:
222839
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GIPFZA, or by GIPFZA on behalf 
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the 
Chief Executive or such other person or persons as GIPFZA shall designate in writing, and 
GIPFZA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
THE GAMBIA INVESTMENT PROMOTION AND FREE ZONES 
AGENCY
By /s/ John P. Bojang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
Implementation Generally
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GIPFZA shall: (a) apply the criteria, 
policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the PIM and the ESMP; and (b) not amend or 
waive, or permit to be amended or waived the PIM and the ESMP, or any provision thereof, in a 
manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
2.
PCC
GIPFZA, shall together with the Borrower, as provided in Part B.1 of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, maintain through out the implementation of the Project, a PCC 
which shall be responsible for provision of strategic advice on Project implementation, and 
Page  9
composed of the Permanent Secretaries of DOSTIE and DOSFEA, the Chief Executive of 
GIPFZA, the Chief Executive of GDA, or such other persons as may be agreed with the 
Association.
3.
Safeguard Policies
GIPFZA shall:
(a)
enter into a MOU with NEA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, setting forth the responsibilities of each of GIPFZA and NEA with respect to the 
implementation of the environmental mitigation, monitoring and evaluation measures provided 
for in the ESMP all in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, timetables and other 
provisions set forth therein, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such implementation; and 
(b)
ensure that an environmental impact assessment satisfactory to the Association is 
carried out, if required, for proposed new activities to be carried out in the Free Zone and an 
EMP prepared and implemented.
4.
Annual reviews
GIPFZA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an annual basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about March 31, of each year of Project implementation, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
5.
Midterm Reviews
:
Page  10
GIPFZA shall:
(a)
carry out jointly with the Association, not later than March 31, 2005, a midterm 
review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress in the implementation of 
the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities.
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than June 30, 2005, a report 
based on the findings of the review carried out under paragraph (a) of this Section, including the 
preparation of an action plan to deal with the issues identified in such review; and 
(c)
carry out in a manner satisfactory to the Association the recommended actions 
identified in the action plan prepared under paragraph (b) of this Section.
