                                          DATA SHEET
                                  Gambia Gateway Project
                                            -                                            42513

                                                  Sector Manager: Iradj Alikhani,

Project ID: PO57394


Responsibleagency: GIPFZA Gambia Investment Promotion& Free Zones Agency




RVP approved -X-

Does the restructuredproject require any exceptionsto Bank policies?             -Yes XNo
Havethese beenapprovedby Bank management?                                        -Yes -No
I s approvalfor any policy exception sought from the Board?                      -YesJNo

                                                                                I
Original Project Development Objective and Outcomes:

The Project'soverall objective is to lay the foundation for expanded private investment,export-
orientedproductionand employment, through the establishment ofthe Free Zone and an
improvedinstitutional environment. This objectivewill be achieved by:

        Establishinga self sustainingGambia InvestmentPromotionand Free Zones Agency
        (GIPZA)
     0  Marketing and facilitating local and foreign investmentsin well targetedeconomic
        sectors
        Developinga 10 ha pilot free zone at the airport
        Helpingthe Government implement its divestiture program
        Mitigating any social and/or environmental impactsthat could result from Project
        Implementation.

Revised project development objective/outcomes: The Project's overall objective is maintained.
However, the restructuring measures include: (i)formally close component 3: Support to the
GambiaDivestiture Agency and reallocatethe funds of this underperformingcomponentto a new
component; (ii)formally close component 4: Capacity Building, to further focus the project's
scope; (iii)add a component: Preparatory work for the Divestiture of the Groundnut sector, to
meet an urgent Governmentrequest to help improvethe performanceof the groundnut sector; (iv)
restructure the Results Framework so that it is more focused, simpler and easier to use as a
monitoring and evaluationtool; and (v) funds are reallocatedacross categories.
Doesthe restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? No


   PROJECT PAPER FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE
                        GAMBIA GATEWAY PROJECT


                            A. INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT


This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the following
changes inthe Gambia Gateway Project and accompanying amendments to the project's legal
documents.

The proposed changes will support the full realization of the project development outcomes
and optimal utilization of un-disbursed funds from IDA (US$5.6 million equivalent or 29
percent o f the Credit, as o f December 5, 2007).

    ..
The restructuring measuresbeingproposed are to:

        Formally close component 3: Support to the Gambia DivestitureAgency;
    ..  Formally close component 4: Capacity building;
        Add a component: Preparatory work for the Divestitureofthe Groundnut sector;
        Restructure the results framework to target and bettermeasurethe outcomes delivered
        by each component and subcomponent; and
        Reallocate funds across the project activities to accomplish the proposed changes.

The Project Development Objective is unchanged since it remains relevant for the
restructured project. However, as a result o f the above-mentioned changes, the project is
expected to be more effective at achieving its development objectives, which is to lay the
foundation for the groundwork to expand private investment, export-oriented production and
employment, through the establishment o f the Free Zone and an improved institutional
environment. Additionally, the introduction o f the new component for the preparatory work
for the divestiture o f the groundnut sector is based on a Government's key priority to
revitalize its groundnut sector.


             B. BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

The projectwas approved on February28,2002, and becameeffective on September 18,
2002. The original credit amount was SDR12.4 million, equivalent to US$16.0 million
equivalent. The original overall project development objective was to "lay thefoundation for
expanded private investment, export-oriented production and employment, through the
establishment of the Free Zone and an improved institutional environment. This objective will
be achieved by:




                                                1

         Establishing a self sustaining GambiaInvestment Promotion and Free Zone Agency
         (GIPZ4);
         Marketing andfacilitating local andforeign investments in well-targetedeconomic
         sectors;
         Developing a I O hapilotfree zone at the airport;
         Helping the Government implement its divestiture program; and
         Mitigating any social andor environmental impacts that could resultfrom Project
         Implementation. ''

The Project, which was originally conceived as an APL, was also meantto prepare the APL 2
whose development objective was to "consolidate the FZ functions and financing, and secure
managerial and financial autonomy for GIPFZA. This phase [would have] also deepen the
production linkages o f the FZ with the local economy..   .." However, the idea o f an APL 2
was dropped from the Country Assistance Strategy since this instrument no longer
corresponds to the country's needs interms o f growth and competitiveness.

The originalGatewayProjectconsistedof five components,briefly describedbelow:

Component1: PhysicalInvestmentfor a new Free Zone -US$5.35million

As per page 37 o f the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), this component was meant to
support five items: (i)Enabling works at the airport; (ii)fencing and access roads; (iii)
common utilities (energy, water, telephone); (iv) common users' warehouse; and (v)
consulting services for supervision o f works.

Component 2: Establishment of an Investment Promotion/Free Zone Agency GIFPZA
US$5.10 million This component includes the following sub components: (B.1) GIPFZA
operating support; (B.2) Technical assistance; (B.3) Consulting services to complete and
implement market surveys and marketing plan; (B.4) Consulting services to promote
investment; and (B.5)various studiesrelated to facilitating trade.

Component3: Support to the Gambia DivestitureAgency US$1.8 million
                                                               -
This component will support the Government's agenda for privatization. It will include three
sub-components: (C.1) Divestiture Program; (C.2) Divestiture safeguarding and monitoring;
and (C.3) Divestiture consensus building.

Component4: CapacityBuilding US$1.2million
                                      -
This component will includethe following items: (D.1) Training for stakeholders under the
mentorship of GIPFZA; and (D.2) GDA capacity building.

Component5: Projectand Environmentalmanagement-US$0.9 million

This component includes the following: (E.1) Project management; and (E.2) Environmental
and Social management.

The Project's performance has been mixed. Components 1, 2 and 5 performed satisfactorily.
However, component 4 on Capacity building developed the capacity for only one o f the two
institutions that it was supposed to assist. The performance under Component 3 Support to
                                               2

the Gambia Divestiture Agency for US$1.8 million was unsatisfactory. As a result the
Project was rated "moderately unsatisfactory" in terms of implementation and progress
towards achieving the development objectives. Disbursementshave lagged, and by end May
2007, only 71percent o f project funds were disbursed.

Progress, however, was made in three of the components as set out in detail in Annex 1 and
summarized below.

   Component 1: Physical Investment for a new Free Zone at the airport, the physical
   infrastructure of international standards was completed. The Gambia Gateway Project
   financed the development of 8.8 hectares. This includes the enabling works, fencing,
   access roads, installation o f common utilities and common users' warehouse, as well as
   the consulting services for the supervision ofthe works.

   Component 2: Establishment of an Investment PromotiodFree Zone Agency GIPFZA
   US$5.1 million, the Project has performed satisfactorily. Today, GIPFZA is a fairly well-
   established investment promotion agency, and i s acknowledged as such by the private
   sector.

   Component 3: support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA). The implementation of
   this component was unsatisfactory throughout the project life. Infact, not even one out of
   the fifteen Public Enterprises slated for divestiture in the Gambia Divestiture Act, 2001.
   As such, this component did not bring the additional contribution in private investment
   and efficiency gains that would have beenexpected had the program beencarried out.

   Component 4: Capacity Building was moderately unsatisfactory thanks to the effective
   institutional capacity of GIPFZA, which is only one o f the two institutions that the Project
   was supposed to assist. Capacity building for the GDA was modest and insufficient to
   undertake the design and implementation of a wide ranging divestiture program.

   Component 5: Project and EnvironmentalManagement had satisfactory performance.

While some progresswas achieved,the overallperformancewas not satisfactory. The
main constraints were:
       .  Component 3 Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency (GDA)                  - USS1.8
           million severely underestimatedthe scope of the challenges for such a wide-
           ranging program. Under the original project design, this component was only
           budgeted for US$1.8 million to divest fifteen Public Enterprises (PES). Bank
           experience on divestiture shows that a divestiture technical assistance costs
           between US$300,000 to US$600,000. The US$l.8 million was not sufficient to
           adequately design and implement the divestiture program. Moreover, the
           component under-performed due to several reasons, among which, are (i)a
           critically low level o f staffing at the Gambia Divestiture Agency; (ii)an
           overlapping o f layers o f decision-making; and (iii)a resistance from state-owned
       .   enterprises management.

          The dialogue was not conducive to an effective project implementation. The
           lack o f progress under the divestiture component shifted the dialogue on the need
           to complete certain transactions and away from how the transaction would
                                               3

           contributeto an improvedsector's performance, resultinginan over-emphasison
        .  issues for which there was no agreement.

          Weak project implementation. Under the original project design, the Project
           envisaged that both the GDA and the GIPFZA would implement the Project. As
            such, this arrangement required effective management and accountability at two
            levels. This implied that there was a need to develop institutional capacity
            simultaneously intwo agencies on bothtechnical and Bank financed project skills.
            While the Project has been effective in developing GIPFZA's capacity, this did
           not happenwith GDA.

As a result of these issues, project ratings have remained"marginally unsatisfactory" to date.
Based on the urgent need to redirect resources allocated to the Project for the groundnut
sector and the above difficulties, the State Secretary for Finance and Economic Affairs and
InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA) agreed to restructure the project. This would
allow the IDA funds to be put to more productive use in order to achieve outcomes that
remain critical for the Gambian economy and poverty reduction, more broadly. The
restructured project is in alignment with The Gambia's Poverty Reduction Strategy and
IDA'S Country Assistance Strategy. It is driven by the Government's request and was
discussed with State Secretary for Finance and Economic Affairs, the State Secretary for
Trade, Industryand Employment, and GIPFZA.


                                  C. PROPOSEDCHANGES


Outlinedbelowis a summary of the changes proposedinthe restructuring.Annex 2 compares
the componentsofthe original and restructuredprojects.

(a) Formally close component 3: Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency as
    requested by the Government and agreed by the World Bank. This component was
    meant to support the Government's agenda for privatization. It included three sub-
    components: (C.1) Divestiture Program; (C.2) Divestiture safeguarding and monitoring;
    and (C.3) Divestiture consensus building. The PAD presents an ambitious objective of
    divesting from 15 state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Implementation progress shows that
    this objective is not realistic, given the weak institutional capacity, the complex decision-
    making process, limited resources and the resistance from the management of SOEs. As
    such, the component is being dropped and formally closed. It will allow the Project to
    focus on implementingcomponents that have the institutionaland resource requirements
   to be completedsuccessfullyandrealize their developmentimpact.

   Formally close component 4: Capacity building. This component includes the
   following items: (D.1) Training for stakeholders under the mentorship of GIPFZA; and
   (D.2) GDA capacity building.The recommendationis to close this component and carry
   out the remaining training through component 2, which would now include a training
   element. Given that the capacity building carried out under this component is to support
   GIPZA and GDA, and there is no specific training or capacity building assistance
   envisaged for the Divestiture Agency under the Project, this support could be provided
   under the component 2.


                                                4

(c) Add a component: Preparatory work for the Divestiture of the Groundnut sector.
    Given the Government's request to urgently provide support to the groundnut sector by
    financing relevant activities and equipment used to improve the production output and its
    quality, IDA has agreed to use the proceeds of the credit to provide the required
    assistance. This assistance i s also meant to prepare the divestiture of The Gambia
    Groundnut Corporation (GGC) within a framework that emphasizes divestiture as a
    means to improve the sector's performance and not as the end objective. This assistance
    will comprise four subcomponents, as shown below:

       i)Advance planning of the season's crop by the inter-professional organization
       (ASPA). ASPA needs to immediately start the detailed planning o f next season's crop
       marketing activities. Critically needed assistance includes: (i)making immediate
       decisions, and informing all stakeholders regarding: (a) the setting o f the 2008
       indicative producer prices for delivery at various levels (CPMS, depots, or Denton
       Bridge); and (b) the adoption of an adequate marketing cost structure to permit
       adequate operations and maintenance at all levels of the marketing chain; (ii)
       organizing transport logistics (from CPMS to depots, river transport arrangements and
       other options for delivery by producer associations) with FACS and its individual
       cooperatives; (iii)ensuring that there is adequate and timely crop finance -- from
       private buyers and or GGC     --for buying the 2008 crop from the start of the season;
       and (iv) establishing a minimum quality control systemto avoid Gambia exports being
       refusedby importing countries (rehabilitation of depots, sorting and treatments, quick
       evacuation o f the crop,...). To that end, ASPA needs to obtain technical assistance,
       which would be financed under the Project at an estimated cost o f US$450,000.

       ii)Improvingtheefficiencyoftherivertransport. Theseactivities werenotenvisaged
       inthe PAD, and are detailed as follows: (i)the rehabilitation of two tugboats and the
       existing motorized barges (second priority); and (ii)the rehabilitation o f the depots
       loading/unloading equipment, in particular, at Denton Bridge (reception jetty,
       receiving lines, ..,).The cost estimate for this sub component i s US$700,000.

       iii)Ensuringtheminimumqualityoftheproduce,thecriticalminimummeasuresthat
       will be supported by the Project include: (i)the establishment o f adequate physical

       packs (rapid ELISA test kits) - to segregate potential HPS quality from oil-crushing
       sorting mechanisms at depot level - and possibly the use o f quick qualitative analytical

       groundnut stocks; (ii)the establishment of proper handling and control techniques at
       the processing level (shelling, sorting, crushing); and (iii)the improvement of the
       capacity o f the national production control laboratory for mycotoxin (Aflatoxin) and
       residue analysis. The cost estimated for this sub component isUS $650,000.

       iv) Consultant services to carry out both a financial and technical audit o f the Gambia
       Groundnut Corporation (GGC). In addition to these two consultancies, the project
       would finance the preparation o f a performance-based management contract for the
       GGC and the hiring of a short term groundnut specialist to provide the technical input
       to ensure timely and sound technical implementation of the assistance. The cost
       estimated for this sub component is US$600,000.




                                                5

(d) The ResultsFrameworkis revisedto includenew indicatorsfor the componentthat
    has been added. Additionally, it includesmore relevantand preciseindicatorswhich
    are better suited to evaluate and monitor the implementation progress towards
    achievingthe PDO. The reduction of components from 5 to 4 - two of which (Physical
    Investmentfor a new Free Zone and Project Management) have a narrow focus - allows
    resources to be channeled on narrowly definedactivities, to achieve the intended impact.
    The performance indicators have also been revised for certain components to reflect that
    the indicators established inthe original framework have been partially achieved and that
    new indicators need to be adopted to monitor the performance duringthe implementation
    of the restructuringphase. A summary o f the Results Frameworki s attached inAnnex 3.

(e) Funds are reallocated between components and categories to support the changes:
    The tables inAnnex 5 reflect the proposedbudget. The mainchanges being: (i)      increasing
    funding to finance activities aimed at establishing GIPFZA's sustainability and bringing
    inaprivate developer to manage the industrialpark; and (ii)    reallocatingunutilized funds
    from dropped Component 3: Support to the GDA and from the unallocated category to the
    created component: Preparatory work for the Divestiture o f the Groundnut Sector. Annex
    5 provides a summary of the original project costs versus the proposed project costs by
    category and by component. The closing o f two components combined with the creation
    o f a new one results in the reduction o f project components from 5 to 4. Moreover, the
    reallocation does not commit the total amount o f un-disbursedfunds- US$5.68 million-
    since as o f December 2007 US$2.68 million o f this amount i s due to exchange rate gains.
    Allocating the entire un-disbursedamount would not be prudent financial management,
    since there i s a risk o f signing contracts which later may not have funds available for
    payment.

    The Gambia Gateway Project has made these savings due to exchange rate gains. As o f
    December 2007, these gains were U S $2.68 million. These exchange rate gains are
    explained by the continuous appreciation o f the Special Drawing Rights against the US
    Dollar from the project signing date up to now. This resulted in savings on both
    expenditures made and undisbursed funds. As per the Project Appraisal Document, 1
    SDRwas the equivalent of 1.29 U S dollars, at the Credit signing. Since then, the SDR has
    appreciated to reach 1.50 US$ in December 2007. During this period, it has thus taken
    less SDRs to pay for the same amount of U S Dollar expenditures than originally
    envisaged. This has allowed the project to make some savings on the amount disbursed.
    Moreover, the second effect i s on the undisbursed SDR amount. Had the U S Dollar and
    the SDR maintained the same exchange rate at the time of the credit signing, the current
    undisbursedamount o f SDR 3.55 million would have been the equivalent of U S Dollars
    4.59 million. This amount is currently the equivalent o f U S Dollars 5.68 million.


                                        D. ANALYSIS


(a) The economic analysis undertakenin the original PAD remains relevant. With the
removal o f component 3: Support to the Gambia Divestiture Agency and Component 4:
Capacity Building, which had the weakest performance, the overall project Economic Rate o f
Return (ERR) has improved slightly from the 21.2 percent to 25 percent. It is worth noting
that the actual ERR is likely to be evenhigher, since the base case scenario was conservative;
and, important positive externalities, such as the skills and technology transfers, which are
difficult to measure, have taken place, partly as a result o f the Project's contribution.
                                                6

Moreover, based on actual implementation results thus far, the cost benefit analysis shows
greater benefits than expected in the PAD. For example, the work done by GIPZA
was established through the project    -                                               -which
                                         has contributed to the creation of 3,008 jobs obtained
through a US$130 million investment made by the firms operating with a GIPFZA issued
Special Investment Certificates. While it is not possible to attribute all the merit o f these
results to GIPZA, determining how much is a subjective question. Independently from
attribution, the benefits to the country are higher than envisaged inthe PAD.

(b) The improved Results Framework provides a practical basis that Government of
The Gambia and IDA can use to monitor and evaluatethe project.

(c) The proposed changes do not raise the environmental category of the project nor
trigger new safeguard policies: The Gambia National Environment Agency (NEA) is
responsible for all environmental issues inthe country. In conformity with conditions prior to
project effectiveness, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed betweenGIPFZA
and NEA, stating that NEA would review all new investment project proposals submitted to
GIPFZA to identify potential environmental issues. GIPFZA appraises each investment
project proposal from an economic standpoint; then, approval i s subject to NEA's
environmental clearance. At the appraisal stage, NEA stipulates any environmental impact
mitigation measures required for a given project. NEA also undertakes periodic monitoring of
the environmental impact of project activities. To that end, environmental testing equipment
was purchased by the project. In 2008 and 2009, the project will finance the environmental
assessment o f the economic activities carried out inthe industrialpark.

(d) The social safeguards provisionshavenot changed: As stated inthe PAD, "there are no
known squatter or relocation issues, nor are there any known threatened archeological or
cultural resources in the Project area. Other social issues, such as increased traffic and
socially transmitted diseases, are considered minimal." This situation has not changed.
Overall, the project will have a positive social impact through employment and wealth
creation. Few proposed investments are expected to have a negative impact. Nevertheless,
outside o f the Project areas, where potential social issues are identified, GIPFZA and the
Department o f State for Health and Social Welfare engage in dialogue with members o f the
affected community and responsible agencies to agree on an appropriate resolution.


                                 E. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES


As explained above, the proposed changes will enable the project to achieve the
developmentobjectivesand the targeted outcomes.The revised ResultsFramework, which
i s attached inAnnex 3, lists the revisedexpected outcomes.
                                  F. BENEFITSAND RISKS


The project benefits and risks, as envisaged in the PAD are not changed substantially.
The Project was expected to benefit the country by providing employment; the transfer of
skills and technology; and linkages to the local economy. Through GIPFZA's performance,
the Project has helped generate 3,008 jobs and the establishment of 37 firms with Special
Investment incentive Certificates, with total investment made of US$130 million investment.
These investments will be well complemented by the industrial park, and will help foster

                                                 7

linkages in the economy. Moreover, the new component for preparatory work for the
divestiture of the groundnut sector will contribute to increase the production and quality of
groundnut. This will, inturn, help increase the revenues o f farmers, including a vast majority
o f low-income farmers. Inaddition, the project i s expected to:

     (a) Recruit a private firm to managethe industrialpark. This approach is expected to
        bring experience as well as expertise in industrialpark maintenance and management.
         Once firms start operating from the industrial park, this will increase their access to
         good quality utilities (electricity, water, telephone), thus contributing to laying the
         foundation for expanded private investment;

     (b) StrengthenGIPFZA sustainability. Supporting the concession of the industrial park
        to a private operator will help increase the revenues collected by GIPFZA to finance
         GIPFZA's operations. Concomitantly, as is done for many investment promotion
        agencies, which provide a public good, GIPFZA may require financial support from
         the State to carry out its investment promotion and facilitation, which benefits the
         entire economy. To that end, it is important that the 2009 State budget allocation take
        into account the reduction o f funding in 2009 and its termination at the end of that
         same year. Given that GIPFZA annual operating cost averages US$550,000, and that
        the State already provides US$175,000 per year for its funding, the financing gap will
        not be significant - assuming that the revenues generated from the concession of the
        industrialpark are not sufficient.

The overall risk assessment included in the PAD remains relevant today. The expected
outcomes, which have an overall rating of "modest", are set out in detail in Annex 6
alongwith mitigatingmeasures.The central, underlying risk is the lack of a concession of
the industrial park to a qualified private investor since this could negatively affect
components 1and 2. Inorder to mitigate this risk, GIPFZA has finalized its lease agreements,
which could be usedto attract investors and showcase the industrialpark.

The risk assessment considers the country and project levels, and mitigatingmeasures
are suggested for each. At the country level, the policy dialogue has been strengthened by an
approach o f using divestiture as a tool for reform and not as an end. Moreover, the location of
the new TTL in Dakar, coupled with a more active involvement of the World Bank liaison
office in Banjul has resulted in a better quality o f dialogue with the relevant stakeholders,
including donors. At the project level, the restructuring of activities has considerably
increased the likelihood o f achieving the PDO.




                                                 8

                    ANNEX 1:              ORIGINAL PROJECTAND
                          ACCOMPLISHMENTS TO DATE

            PDO                       ProjectOutcomeIndicators                         Achievement
To lay the foundation for      1. The number of licensesdelivered by          1. 74 licenses were delivered
expanded private               GIPFZA during the period 2002-2006: 5         by GIPFZA from 2002 to
investment, export-            licenses per year.                            2006.
orientedproductionand          2. The creation of at least 20 new firms.     2. 37 new firms created.
employment, throughthe         3. The achievement of annual ton and value 3. Unclear indicator.Cannot
establishmentof Free           targets for the FZs.                          be measured.
zones and an improved          4. The creationof 4,000 direct newjobs.       4.3008 newjobs created.
institutional environment.     5. Average processtime to create new          5. Averagetime to create a
                               enterprises is reduced to 4 weeks.            firm reducedto 4 weeks.
                               6. Average customs clearance time for FZ      6. Not applicablesince the FZ
                               relatedCargoes is reducedto 1 day.            is not operational.
     Output from each              IntermediateOutcome Indicators                      Achievement
        Component
ComponentA:                    1.1 Key infrastructure at the Airport site is  1. Free zone is completed at
Physical investment for a completed and equipped.                            the airport.
new Free Zone at the 1.2 10 ha cumulated surface lands leased                2. No lease has been put in
airport. An operational FZ for the periodof 2002-2006                        place.
i s established at the airport 1.3 Establishmentof privately-financed        1.3 .No teleport service.
                               teleport services.                            1.4.Mater plan is not
                               1.4Master Planfor the Business Park is        completed.
                              completed.
ComponentB:                   2.1 Market surveys and Market Plancarried 2.1. Market surveys and
Establishmentof an            out.                                           marketingplan carried out.
investmentpromotion and       2.2. Designof interfaceriver free zones,       2.2. Designof interfacehas
Free Zone Agency. The          including engineeringdesign, bidding          been dropped since it is no
GIPFZA progressively          documents, economic and environmental          longer suitableto prepare it.
becomes a self sustaining      studies.                                      2.3.Mgt plan completedand
entity and effectively         2.3. Management Planfor GIPFZA is             implemented.
plays its role as promoter    completedand implemented.                      2.4. Targets not achieved.
of investmentand              2.4. Annual GIPFZA turnover targets            2.5. Revenuesdoe not cover
manager ofthe Free Zone.      achieved.                                      operatingcosts.
                               2.5. The GIPFZA operatingcosts are
                              increasingly coveredby its-revenues.
Component C: Supportto         3.1. Divestiture oftrack Ipublic enterprises  3.1. Divestiturefor telecom is
the GambiaDivestiture         (transportand telecom) are carried out.        done without project support.
Agency: Major Gambian          3.2. Divestituresof track I1public            3.2. No divestiture for track I1
companies are divested.       enterprises are carried out.                   public enterprises is carried
                                                                             out.
ComponentD:                   1.1.Numberofenterprises or entrepreneurs       4.1. Relevancyof indicator is
Capacityof stakeholders       trainedfor the period of 2002-2006.            unclear.Not measured.
to promote, facilitate and    1.2.Number of staff trained from GIPFZA,       4.2. Every GIPFZA staff is
engage in trade is            SDA and other Dublic and Drivate               trained, while 4 staff from

                                                     9

strengthened.Capacityof    stakeholders.                          GDA are trained.
GDS to divestand           4.3. Increasedcapacity as measuredby   4.3 Unknownsince no training
regulateis also            trainingaudits.                        auditwas done.
strengthened.
Component E:               4.1 Regulardisbursementsand proper     Projecthas regular
Projectcomponents are      accountingof project components.       disbursements, proper
coordinatedand social and                                         accountingof project.
environmentalmitigation    4.2 Environmentalassessmentscompleted  Environmentalassessments
i s effectivelvcarriedout. and mitigationmeasuresimplemented.     completed.




                                              10

 z8
YC



 (d
93
 C




 W
 C
 E
 C

5>
 El
I-




2
 (d
Y


,C


a8El
 ..
In
YC
 0
 z
 C
 0

3
-




 z
YC

 8
 (d
93!52El>
 C




I-



aC

WC
 (d
Y0
 W
 I?
I C


z..
v l
Y5C
 0

3-
 z

A
-


    2Y  :p
              VI




                        m
                        c
E
8            0
             0
3
b9 3
   d         z
E
0            00
2                3P
w          1 %
             0

    N            d




    re,       e,
              c   3P
    Z
    0        s   9

24        <
s         2
          s




      3
      3
      m

c




     4-
e
L    0


  ANNEX 4:              THE IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE


Monitoring and Evaluation

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

At the beginningof the Project, there are two project implementationagencies: The Gambia
InvestmentPromotionand FreeZone Agency (GIPFZA) andThe GambiaDivestitureAgency
(GDA).

Followingthe mid-termprojectreview in May 2005, GIPFZA becameresponsible for overall
project coordination, as well as for financial management and procurement functions related
to the project. GIPFZA has a strong team o f well-qualified professional staff, organized in
three Departments under the Chief Executive Officer (CEO): Free Zone Development;
Investment Promotion and Marketing; and Finance and Administration. A Procurement
Manager is in place, who reports directly to the CEO. The Director of Finance and
Administration, and the Procurement Manager have been trained in World Bank financial
management and procurement procedures, respectively, and both have participated in the
World Bank's training on quality assurance procedures. The Procurement Manager also has
experience with other World Bank-supportedprojects.

A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been established and is proactive in
providing strategic guidance to the implementing agencies and in addressing issues as they
arise. Current membersof this Committee, on the Governmentside, are:
        ..  DOSTIE, representedby the Permanent Secretary for Trade;
            DOSFEA,representedby the Permanent Secretary for Finance;
        .   GIPFZA, representedby the ChiefExecutive Officer;
            GDA, representedby the Officer in Charge.

The Committee also includes three representatives from the private sector: the Director of
the Arab Bank and President of the Banker's Association; the owner of a horticultural
enterprise, andthe owner of a holdingcompany.

The Committee meets on a quarterly basis, or more often, as needed. GIPFZA provides
Secretariatsupportto the Committee.

Project oversight is also provided by GIPFZA's Board of Directors (BOD). The BOD is
responsible for setting policy and approvingpersonnelappointments.

MONITORING EVALUATIONARRANGEMENTS
               AND

GIPZFA's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for the overall monitoring o f
progress towards meeting the project's objectives, and for reporting on project
implementation to the PCC and the World Bank.

The Director o f Investment Promotion and Marketing prepares a quarterly report on the
status of investment projects which have been awarded Special IncentiveCertificates(SIC)
or Free Zone Licenses (FZL). This report includes the total number of investment firms

                                               16

operational,non-operational(licensedbut inactive), in preparatorystage, and inthe pipeline;
proposed and actual investment capital; potential and actual employment.This status report is
a key input for project outcome monitoring. The most recent report available is as of
September 30, 2007 (see Annex 1). The information on actual investment capital and
permanent new jobs created is being verified through a survey of investors, as part of an
economic impact assessment recently undertaken by Sahel International Consultants under
contract to GIPFZA. The consultants have submitteda draft report, which is currently being
reviewed by GIPFZA. GIPFZA proposes to repeat the economic assessment and investor
survey exercise annually.

Based on agreements made during the mid-term project review, GIPFZA is responsible for
collecting progress reports from GDA on activities supported by the project, for the overall
implementation progress status report. So far, there have been no problems with respect to
this arrangement. GDA has been providing the required information to GIPFZA on a timely
basis.

GIPFZA's CEO reports quarterly on project results and implementation issues on behalf of
the BOD, submitting progress reports simultaneously to the BOD and the PCC. Once
endorsed by the BOD and the PCC, GIPFZA's CEO submits the project progress reports to
the World Bank.

GIPZFA has a well-developed Strategy and Implementation Plan for the agency's work
program up to 2009, which was recently approved by the World Bank (see Annex 2). The
Strategy and Implementation Plan document includes a detailed monitoring and evaluation
plan, and a well-developedreporting template. The template could be improved by showing
more clearly actualresults in relationto plans, and by including a section of key issues/actions
for management attention, or an action plan to address issues (rather than just reporting on
why targets were not met). In this way, the reporting template would be more useful as a
management tool. Monitoring and evaluation reports should be shared with all members of
GIPFZA's senior managementteam, andwith those members of staff who provide inputs.

GIPFZA's Strategy and ImplementationPlan mentions an M&E Officer, but no M&E Officer
has been appointed. A full-time M&E Officer position is not warranted; however, a senior
staff member of GIPFZA should be designated to be responsible for the M&E function.

Plans are underway to develop and introduce a new Management Information System
(MIS),which will incorporatea new investmenttracking system (using IPA works to replace
the current Act! application), an improved system for monitoring administration of investors
incentives(referred to by GIPFZA staff as the "duty waiver" database), financial management
system, and the proposed monitoring and evaluationsystem. Terms of reference for the MIS
have been preparedand will shortly be submittedto the Bank for approval.

The proposed investment tracking system will address current weaknesses in capturing
information on all investment "leads" (via telephone, personal contacts, and those received
via e-mail and letter). All GIPFZA staff will have access to any investment "lead" generated
by other colleagues so as to allow all staff to have a1 the relevant information about the
"lead". This system allows the tracking of the "lead" until it becomes an investment thus
providing GIPFZA a useful feedback in terms of time line and constraints encountered by
investors.

Improvements to the database for monitoring administration of incentives to investors,
which is networked between GIPFZA, the Department of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs, the Department of State for Trade, Industry and Employment, and the Gambia
Revenue Authority (which includes Customs and Income Tax), is expected to increase
transparency and to reduce transaction costs for investors.The current system is not working
well because of unclear designation of responsibility for management of the system among
the partner agencies. Consequently, inconsistent information is provided to investors at
different stages ofthe applicatiodapproval process. This needsto be urgently addressed.

                                              17

Monitoring of Environmental Impact

The Gambia National Environment Agency (NEA) is responsible for monitoring all
environmental issues in the country. In conformity with conditions prior to project
effectiveness, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed between GIPFZA and
NEA, which agreed that NEA would review all new investment project proposals submitted
to GIPFZA to identify potential environmental problems. GIPFZA appraises each new
investment project proposal from an economic standpoint; approval is subject to NEA's
environmental clearance. At the appraisal stage, NEA stipulates any environmental impact
mitigation measures required for the particular project. NEA also undertakes periodic
monitoring of the environmental impact of project activities on the ground. To facilitate
NEA's monitoring activities, environmental testing equipment has been purchased using
project funds.

Monitoring of Social Impact

The project is expected to have a positive social impact through the creation of employment
and wealth. Few proposed investments are expected to have a negative impact. Nevertheless,
GIPFZA identifies potentialnegative social impactsat projectappraisal stage, in collaboration
with the Departmentof State for Healthand Social Welfare. Where potential social issues are
identified, GIPFZA engages in dialogue with members of the affected community and the
responsibleagencies to discuss and agree on an appropriate resolution. For example, in a rare
case where resettlement may be involved, following in-depth consultations the affected
personsmight be relocatedand appropriatelycompensated.


Recommendations:

1. Modify the new monitoring and evaluation reporting templates to show actual results in
relation to plans, and include a section of key issues/actions for management attention, or an
action plan to address issues identified; monitor implementation of the actions for
managementattention, or actionplan, on a quarterly basis.

2. Designate a senior officer of GIPFZA to be responsible for managing the proposed new
M&E system; clarify roles and responsibilitiesof other GIPFZA staff with respect to M&E
activities, includingrequirements for reportingand timely submissionof inputs.

3. Develop the new system to administer incentives to investors in close collaboration with
counterparts in each of the partner agencies. Clarify who is the lead agency with respect to
maintaining information inthe system, and for maintainingthe system itself, A representative
of the leadagency shouldrequest each o f the other partneragencies to designate a focal point,
and communicate information regarding respective responsibilities to all relevant
stakeholders.

4. Make arrangements to commission a social impact assessment at the end of the project
period.

Environmental and social management As stated in the PAD, "the proposed Project is rated
Environmental Category A. In conformity with Bank guidelines, an Environmental
Assessment has been carried out by the consulting company Ecolas, financed by the PHRD
grant from Japan. The EA has identified environmental and social issues related to the FZ
site and recommended measures to be integrated into the Environmental Management Plan.
These will be implemented during the constructionand operations phases of the airport site.
Supplemental EA and resettlement plans will have to be undertaken for the River Free Zones,
to be identified during APLl, as well as for other Free Zones created under the provisionsof
Free Zones Act 2001. Since many of the economic activities in the airport FZ are yet to be


                                              18

identified, the periodic environmental and social assessments will also include activity-
specific EMPs, as they are identified. This sub-componentthus involvestwo activities."

   (a) Periodic environmental and social assessments.              In order to ensure the
        environmentaland social sustainability of the Project, an independent consultingfirm
        will carry out annual audits. The consulting firm will identify and assess the
        importance of, and recommend environmental mitigation related to (i)all negative
        trends in pollution patterns caused by Free Zones development and operations, and
        (ii)allsocialeffectsofthedevelopmentoftheFreeZones. Theserecommendations
        will be an annual update of the ESMP for each FZ, and will be transmitted to the
        GIPFZA, which will establish and enforce environmentalregulations and procedures
        within the Zones, in collaborationwith the National EnvironmentAgency (NEA).

   (b) Environmental mitigation measures.           The Project will fund environmental
        mitigation measures in the initial and annual ESMP updates, which will include (i)
        mitigation measures relatedto the development of the airport FZ site, and eventually
        the development of River Free Zones; and (ii)industry and site-specific mitigation
        measuresrelatedto the installationswithin the FZs.




                                              19

                          ANNEX 5:           PROJECT COSTS

     a) Table 5.1: Estimated Costs by Component (USD) as per the originaldesigned (page 13 of the
     PAD)



                                                                          Original Gateway Project

                                                                       I D A    Gov.            Total
                                                                                  us$'ooo
 1   Physical Investment for a new free Zone at the airport              4,310        1,040    ,     5,350

 2   Establishment of GIPFZA                                             4,660          440          5,100
 3   Support to the Gambia Divestiture                                   1,690          110          1,800
 4   Capacity building                                                   1,100          120          1,230
 5   Project Management & ESMP                                             770          170            940

 6   Project Preparatory Facility                                        1,850             0         1,850
     Unallocated                                                         1,620          250          1,860

     Total Project Cost                                                16,000         2,130        18,130

     b) Table 5.2: Estimated Costs by Component(USD) for the periodof extension



                                                                      Restructured Gateway Project

                                                                      IDA         Gov.         Total
                                                                                  US$'OOO
1  Physical Investment for a new free Zone at the airport                6,340       1,240            7,580
2  Establishment of GIPFZA                                                7,000        900            7,900
3  Divestiture Preparatory work (Groundnut Sector)                       2,400         500           2,900
4  Project Management & ESMP                                                240        100              340
5  Project Preparatory Facility                                           1,850           0           1,850
   Unallocated                                                              430        000              230

   Total Project Cost                                                    18,260      2,740           21,000




                                                 20

Table 5.3: Costs allocation per disbursement category (Le. works, goods, training,
operating costs)

(Part F is beingaddedto provideresources for the componentthat was created in the context
o f this extension)


                                             Amount of the Credit              YO
                                         Allocated % of (Expressed in
                                            ExpendituresCategory         Expenditures
           Category                            SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed


                                           Current    Revisedamount   % of expenditures
                                          Amount                        to be financed
                                                                       100 YOof foreign
           (1) Civil Works for part A o f 3,200,000      3,960,000     expenditures and
           the Project                                                   70% o f local
                                                                         expenditures
           (2) Goods and equipment
                                                                        100Y0of foreign
           (a) Part B ofthe Project       100,000        200,000       expenditures and
                                                                         70% of local
           (b) Part F ofthe Project       000,000        1,047,000       expenditures


           (3) Consultants' Services

           (a) Parts A, B, D, and E of    3,700,000      2,380,000      100%of foreign
           the Project                                                 expenditures and
                                                                          70% of local
           (b) Parts C and D2 of the      1,900,000      593,000          expenditures
           project
                                          000,000        500,000
           (c) Part F ofthe Project

          (4) Training
                                          300,000        405,000
          (a) Part D.1 of the Project                                   100%of foreign
                                           150,000         35,000       expenditures and
          (b) Part D.2 ofthe Project                                      70% of local
                                                                          expenditures
                                          650,000        1,700,000
          (5)   Incremental Operating
          costs
                                                                        100%of foreign
                                                                        expenditures and
                                          1,500,000      1,300,000        70% of local
                                                                          expenditures
          (6) Refinancing of Project
          PreparationAdvance                                              Amount due
                                          900,000         280,000     pursuantto Section
                                                                            2.02 (b)
           (7) Unallocated
                                          12,400,000     12,400,000
           TOTAL


                                             21

       c) Table 5.3 DisbursementSchedule


                                                             US$
Disbursement schedule                                       fx000)
                         2003    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
IDA                        2,452  1,600  3,115  3,022  2,493  2,778  2,500   300
Cum IDA                    2,452  4,052  7,167 10,187 12,682 15,460 17,960 18,260
Government                   280    375    505    175    170    495    500   240
Cum. Government              280    655  1,160  1,335  1,505  2,000  2500   2,798
Total per year             2,732  1,975  3,620  3,197  2,663  3,273  3,000    540
Cum Total (IDA+Gov.)       2,732  4,707  8,327 11,524 14,187 17,460 20,460 21,000




                                          22


                          ANNEX 6:                 RISKASSESSMENT

Summaryof Risks                       I Risk Mitigation Measures                              1RiskRating
Country Level
The broader businessenvironment         Policy Dialogue with the Government, businesses,       M-While proposed
worsens and deters domestic and         and cooperating Partners on private sector reforms     reforms under PSD would
foreign private investment              is  strengthened through regular and timely            improve investment
                                        consultations to result in a harmonized approach to    climate and investment
                                        support private sector development. The EU has         levels, the PDO can be
                                        additional hnds available to support Gambia's          achievedin the absence of
                                        reform efforts. IDA will actively work with the        these reforms.
                                        stakeholders to ensure that reform momentum is
                                        satisfactory,
Private businesses are unable to        The African Development Bank is finalizing the         M- While lack of finance
access the funds neededto               preparation of a Project which will help firms         deters investment, it will
startigrow a businessat an              access funds through technical assistance at the       not have a direct impact
affordable level for term required.     firm level. Moreover, the recent increase in the       on achievement o f the
                                        number of commercial banks in Gambia may result        PDO.
                                        in better lending terms for firms.
Sector Level
The Government does not consider        The Government has recently asked IDA to focus         N-Private Investment
the Private sector agenda an            most of its financial resources for The Gambia to      level andjob creation,
important pillar of its economy and     developing another private sector project geared       including in tourism, have
does not provide the necessary          towards growth and competitiveness.                    significantly increasedas
financial, management and political                                                            a result of some PSD
support requiredto expand it.                                                                  reforms.The Government
                                                                                               is keen to continue the
                                                                                               PSD reforms.
Political and administrative            As specified in the Gambia Investment Promotion        M-Evenwith moderate
interference in GIPFZA                                                                         interference the project
management does not provide                                                                    outcome is likely to be
GIPFZA with sufficient support                                                                 reached.
(political or financial) ,and the
reform process does not generate
more accountability, cost
effectiveness and partnerships
(includingthose with communities
andprivate sector)
Project: From Activities to
Outputhtermediary outcome
GIPFZA does not become                  The Projecthas adopted two distinct but                M
sustainable despite the Project's       complementary plans to ensure that GIPFZA I S
assistance,since a suitable private     sustainable by the Project's Closing Date, so that it
developer to manage the industrial      can continue to be an effective investment
Dark was not found                     promotion agency well after the closing date.
The administration of investment        Department of State for Finance and Economic           M
incentivesbecomes ineffective and      Affairs, GIPFZA, and the Department of State for
deters investors' demandto invest in   Trade, Industry and Employment will discuss and
The Gambia.                            agree on specific steps and measures to be
                                       undertaken to improve the management o f the
                                        incentives to attract investors.
Inspite of better production inthe      3 measures will be put in place to ensure the quality  M
groundnut sector, export levels are    of the produce, including: (i)physical sorting
not satisfied becausethe production    mechanisms and use of quick qualitative analytical
does not meet the quality standards    packs; (ii)establishment of proper handling and
required.                              control techniques (shelling, sorting, crushing); and
                                       (iii)improvement of the capacity of the national
                                       productioncontrol laboratory for residue analysis.
In spite of Government's attempts to   The strategy for improving the groundnut sector         M
divest, a suitable private investor to productionand performancedoes not make the
manage the Gambia Groundnut            privatization of GGC anecessary condition for
Corp.(GGC) has not been found.         improved sector performance.
New private investment in the          Each new investment project's approval is subject     I M
                                                          23

industrial park generates pollutant in to NEA's environmental clearance. NEA stipulates
:he environment, which causes          any environmental impact and mitigation measures
Zoncerns for the local population.     required for the particular project. NEA also




-                                     Iundertakes      periodic  monitoring     of    the
                                       environmental impact of project a c k e s on the
                                       ground To facilitate NEA's monitoring activities,
                                       environmental     testing equipment    has   been
        -                              prchasssing project finds

Project: From Input to activities
GIPZA's procurementand or              GIPFZA has shown to be able to withstand staff     N
financial management capacity          departure more than once, since it has a good
weakens due to staff turnover.         "training ground". Both procurement and financial
                                       management functions have continued to perform
                                       satisfactorily. As a precaution, IDA missions will
                                       include a FM, and a procurementspecialist.
Monitoring and Evaluationis not        A new results framework has been developed in M
usedadequately to improveproject's     close collaboration with GIPFZA. GIPFZA intends
performance.                           to use it to monitor project's performance and
                                       adopt corrective measures, where necessary.
                                       Moreover, IDA missions will include a Monitoring
                                       and Evaluation specialist.
COG counterpart funds are either       Experience from this project's implementation M
not availableor not available in a     shows that the COG counterpart funds have been
timely fashion.                        consistently available. There is no indication that
                                       this is likely to change. However, this aspect will
                                       be closely monitored.
The roadmap implementation             Two measures were adopted to mitigate this risk.   M
steering committee is not able to      The first one is that GIPFZA will be part of the
guide the revitalization of the        steering committee to ensure that the road map
groundnut sector.                      stays on course. The second one is that two
                                        additional consultations between IDA and the
                                        steering committee will take place every year in
                                        addition to consultations during the supervision
                                        missions.
Overall Risk rating                                                                        Moderate




                                                          25

