Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18997 - GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR23.7 MILLION (US$32.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR THE
NATIONAL FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
May 18, 1999
Human Development III
Country Department 1O
Africa Region



GHANA
NATIONAL FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................1I
1. Project development objective .................................................................                                           I
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................                                               1
B. Strategic Context .................................................................I
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ...........                                        ...........1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................                            ................    1
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............................................3
C. Project Description  Summary ................................................................5
1. Project components ................................................................                                                       S5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project . ....................................................5
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .                           ................................................................6
D. Project Rationale ................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............                                         ...........8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .......................................                            ...................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................................................                               10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..................................... .     10
E. Summary Project Analysis ......................................                                                                                       10
1. Economic .....................................                                                                                           10
2. Financial ..................................... 13
3. Technical .....................................                                                                                          13
4. Institutional ......................................                                                                                      13
5. Social ......................................                                                                                            14
6. Environmental assessment ...................................... 14
7. Participatory approach ......................................                                                                            14
F. Sustainability and Risks ......................................                                                                                       14
1. Sustainability .....................................                                                                                     14
2. Critical Risks ..................................... 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..................................... 17
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................................                                                                                          17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ......................................                                                                          17
2. Other .....................................                                                                                               17
H. Readiness for Implementation .....................................                             .                                                      17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies .....................................                                                                                   17



Annexes
Annex I.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.    Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.    Financial Summary
Annex 6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.    Documents in Project File
Annex 9.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.   Country at a Glance
Map         IBRD No. 23606



GHANA
National Functional Literacy Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa
Country Department 10
Date: May 18, 1998                                      Team Leader: Irene Xenakis
Country Director: Peter Harrold                         Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
Project ID: GH-PE-974                                   Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: SIL                                 Theme(s): Functional Literacy
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [X] Yes [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [X] Credit          [] Grant      [  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 32.0
Proposed terms:    [ ] To be defined        [ ] Multicurrency     [ ]  Single currency
[ ] Standard Variable  [X] Fixed              [ ] LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:                max.0.5 %
Service charge:                 0.75 %
Front-end fee on Bank loan:
Financing plan:
Source                                                       Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                    13.5               0.0             13.5
IBRD                                                            
IDA                                                           15.0              17.0             32.0
Other (specify): Districts/Communities                        0.5                 -               0.5
Total:                                                       29.0               17.0             46.0
Borrower: The Government of Ghana
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Non-formal Education Division/Ministry of Education.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY               2000         2001          2002         2003         2004         2005
Annual      4.0          6.0          6.0          6.0           6.0          4.0
Cumulative      4.0         10.0          16.0         22.0         28.0         32.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2004
Expected effectiveness date: November 1, 1999         Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agency: Non-formal Education Division/Ministry of Education
Contact person: Mr. A. A. Akuoko, Acting Director
Address: Non-Formal Education Division/MOE, Literacy House, Accra, Ghana
Tel: 233-21-231-663            Fax: 233-21-231-664            E-mail: <nfedgh@ighmail.com>



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This operation will support the National Functional Literacy Program (NFLP) carried out by the Non-
Formal Education Division/ Ministry of Education (NFED/MOE). Its principal objective is to increase
the number of Ghanaians adults (15-45 years), particularly women and the rural poor, who acquire
literacy and functional skills. For the purposes of this program a functionally literate person is "one who
can engage in activities in which literacy is required for effective functioning of his/her group and
community and also for enabling him/her to continue to use reading, writing and calculation for his/her
own and the community's development."1 The NFLP seeks to achieve this objective by providing a
quality basic functional literacy program in selected national languages, creating a literate environment,
and strengthening institutional capacity for program implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Program performance will be monitored through several objectively verifiable indicators of literacy skills,
knowledge utilization, and improved attitudes and practices in areas such as family health, community
participation, and agricultural activities. The Program will: (i) monitor the number of learners enrolling
in the classes and the percentage achieving a basic level of literacy, and (ii) compile periodic learner
assessment to evaluate the impact of development activities on learners' knowledge, attitudes and
practices. Based on the experience gained during the first phase of the Program, the NFLP envisages that
about 70% of learners will complete the program successfully and that 60% of new literates will be
women. To the extent that illiteracy is highly correlated with location, income level and gender, the
literacy program provides an opportunity for illiterate adults, especially women in rural areas, to improve
their human capital and become more productive members of civil society.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17002-GH         Date of latest CAS discussion: September 4, 1997
The objective of Ghana's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is to improve the quality of life for all
Ghanaians, generate employment, and reduce poverty by accelerating broad-based economic growth and
by implementing direct poverty-reduction measures for those individuals not participating in the growth
process. The Bank is supporting the Government's development agenda by emphasizing programs that
improve the quality, access and sustainability of social services and by promoting faster agricultural
growth. In the education sector, the Bank's existing and proposed investments focus on improving the
quality of functional literacy programs, basic education, and post-basic education and training programs,
including tertiary education.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since the mid-1980s, the Government has been committed to expanding and improving education and as
a result public expenditure on education doubled between 1987 to 1997. As a proportion of GDP, annual
education spending increased from 1.4% in 1983 to 4.0% in 1997. Basic education receives roughly two-
thirds of the recurrent education budget (Ghana Education Finance Study, 1998). The NFLP receives
substantial political support, but has been allocated only 0.68% of the public resource envelope for 1999
(MOE/MTEF, 1998).
I UNESCO definition of functional literacy.



2
Sector issues
(a) Illiteracy rates remain high among the poor, especially among poor women.
In 1997 the national adult illiteracy rate was estimated at 52% -- 38% for men and 64% for women --
while the absolute number of adult illiterates was estimated at four million. Adult illiteracy is highly
correlated with location, income level, and gender. In rural areas, 74% of household heads in the poorest
quintile have never attended school, compared to 15% in the richest quintile. Among rural women in the
poorest quintile, 84% are illiterate, compared to 53% for those in the-richest quintile. Although illiteracy
is somewhat lower in urban areas, the association between illiteracy and poverty remains. Sixty-two
percent of urban household heads in the poorest quintile have never attended school compared to only
4.5% for households in the richest quintile. Among urban women in the poorest quintile, 70% are
illiterate compared to 24% for women in the richest quintile (Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
(CWIQ) Survey, 1997).
(b) There is a continuous flow of young people lacking basic literacy skills, especially girls and children
in very poor households.
Low primary school enrollment and completion rates, coupled with poor learning achievement, produce a
continuous flow of young people joining the stock of illiterate adults. Although primary school
enrollment rates have increased slightly since 1989, they are far from universal, especially for girls or
children in very poor households. In 1993, the overall primary school admission rate was 81% for girls
and 90% for boys, while only 60% of children from very poor households enrolled. Moreover, not all
children who enter primary school complete the cycle. In 1993, the completion rate was 79% for girls
and 88% for boys. Additionally, student achievement is low even among students who complete primary
education. In 1996 a criterion referenced test administered to 5% of the students in grade six indicated
that only 5.5% of those tested reached mastery levels in English and 1.8% reached a similar level in
mathematics. More recent data continue to show wide gaps in educational attainment, especially by
income level and region. In 1997 only 28% of poor children in rural areas had completed at least primary
school, compared to 64% of non-poor children. These differences carry over to urban areas, where 44%
of poor children complete primary school compared to 78% of non-poor children.
(c) The quality and relevance of the functional literacy program need to improve.
NFLP needs to focus more systematically on program quality and responsiveness to learners' needs. A
1997 Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) indicated that the NFLP improved the learners' literacy skills
and self-esteem and heightened their awareness of choices in such areas as family planning, personal
health and hygiene, agricultural practices, preservation of the environment and civic issues. However, the
evaluation of the first phase of the Program strongly recommended that program quality be improved
before the scope is expanded. Areas recommended for improvement include: relevance to learners'
needs and expectations; selection and training of facilitators and supervisors; the regular conduct of
classes; the length of class contact and quality of instruction; instructional supervision; the quality and
availability of instructional and reading materials; and program monitoring and evaluation. Little is
known about the quality, relevance and impact of other literacy programs in Ghana.
(d) There is need to sustain literacy skills through creation of a literate environment.
There is a limited selection of reading materials available to neo-literate adults. Phase I supported
production of reading materials in the 15 languages to ensure new literates will not lose their acquired
skills. To this end, NFED financed the publication and distribution of community newspapers, subsidized
the production costs of the Ghana Book Publishers Association (GBPA) for selected titles and languages,
and encouraged local communities to produce their own reading materials using low-cost silk-screen
technology.  In practice, however, centralized procedures delayed production and distribution of
newspapers, and collaboration with GBPA did not work out as envisaged. Local newspaper production
using silk-screen presses, however, is now working well in some districts.



3
(e) NFED's institutional role and capacity to deliver a quality national literacy program need to be
strengthened.
NFED's role and mandate to implement the NFLP, promote and coordinate literacy initiatives, and set
priorities for non-formal education need to be strengthened. Only recently was NFED granted
autonomous status within MOE. Its unclear status had created insecurity among seconded staff; NFED
has often had difficulty recruiting and retaining competent staff, and wasted capacity building as trained
staff left NFED. Centralized program management and internal inefficiencies combined with limited
budget have further aggravated the problem. In general, NFED's capacity to implement, monitor and
evaluate the program has been weak.
(f) Collaboration among literacy providers needs to be strengthened
Although NFED is the main provider of literacy classes in Ghana, the number of NGOs involved in
various types of adult literacy activities is growing. The content and focus of their activities range from
religion, to gender equity to rural development. Literacy providers include: (i) independent providers that
organize their own classes and activities independently from NFED; (ii) those that organize their classes
independently, but rely on NFED for some form of support (e.g., primers, training, supervision); and (iii)
organizations that do not provide literacy services, but contribute to NFED's delivery (e.g. mobilizing
learners, providing input for development activities). There is an increasing recognition among all
stakeholders of the need for collaboration and coordination of literacy activities.
Government Strategy
In 1990 the Head of State declared the eradication of adult illiteracy as a national priority, and in 1991 the
Government sought World Bank assistance to finance the NFLP Program to achieve this result. The
Program's main objective was to improve economic opportunities and quality of life for the most
vulnerable and disadvantaged Ghanaians. The Program has already achieved considerable success and
helped reduce the national illiteracy rate from 69% in 1989 to an estimated 52% in 1997 (Ghana Living
Standard Survey, 1989 and CWIQ, 1997). The Government remains committed to its original objective to
eradicate illiteracy, and has thus adopted a two-pronged strategy:
(a) Increase access and improve the quality of basic education to stem the flow of young people who
reach adulthood illiterate.
This strategy involves reducing gender and regional disparities in access to basic education; improving
instructional practices in schools; providing instructional materials; strengthening teacher development;
fostering community involvement in school management; and building institutional capacity for
organizational analysis and change. The Free Compulsory Universal Basic Educational (FCUBE)
program was launched in 1996 to address these issues.
(b) Improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of the NFLP to ensure sustained literacy and functional
skills.
This includes providing a basic literacy and functional skills package to illiterate adults; improving
program monitoring, evaluation and research; expanding the English literacy pilot classes; enhancing
NFED's collaboration with other literacy providers; and strengthening NFED's capacity to manage and
monitor the Program.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
Building on lessons learned and achievements from the previous phase, the proposed operation will
address issues of program quality and delivery as follows.



4
Emphasis on Program Quality and Relevance
(a) Providing a good-quality basic literacy program to targeted illiterate adults
As illiteracy is highly correlated with location, income level, and gender, the Program will target mainly
the poor and women living in rural areas. Women's enrollment and completion rates will be monitored
closely to ensure that at least 60% of the beneficiaries are women. The strategic choices include:
* Designing a literacy program that targets specific groups of illiterates versus a program without
specific targets. According to the Constitution of Ghana, the National Literacy Program is open to
all adult Ghanaians. Nonetheless, the experience to date is that the program is self-targeting, as
illiterates are primarily poor and female (particularly among the 25-45 age group). As these
specific groups are the main beneficiaries of the Program, the basic literacy package is designed to
be relevant to their needs.
* Pursuing quality versus quantity. Although it is estimated that about four million adult Ghanaians
remain illiterate in their national language (there are 55 national languages in the country), the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the previous phase concludes that, in the next phase
of the Program, quality must be improved before further expansion.
(b) Sustaining literacy skills
The Program will support several mechanisms to build a literate environment through the development
and production of low-cost reading materials under a decentralized system. The strategic choices
considered include:
. Maintaining newspaper production in 15 national languages at the center versus decentralizing
production to regional/district levels. The evaluation of Phase 1 and a recent research study
suggest that central production of materials, particularly of newspapers in national languages, is
inefficient and time-consuming (often with long delays in production and distribution); and that
there is scope for increased decentralization and private sector involvement in the production of
easy-to-read stories, community newspapers, and materials geared to the reading-level of new
literates. The proposed Program will seek to establish regional materials production committees to
oversee the development and production of materials at the regional level.
3 Supporting NFED to develop reading materials in the 15 program languages versus purchasing
materials from other literacy providers and involving commercial publishers. Enhanced effort is
being made to purchase appropriate materials from all available sources and to limit NFED's role
in this area.
. Involving learners in the production of simple reading materials in class versus using only
materials produced by others. The Program will support classes to produce their own materials
through the use of low-cost, silk-screen presses.
Strategy for Service Delivery
(a) Strengthening NFED's institutional role and capacity to deliver a good-quality program.
The operation will support NFED's official establishment, human resource development (HRD) strategy
and staff decentralization. It will also strengthen NFED's capacity for monitoring, evaluation and
research to improve Program effectiveness and impact. The strategic choices include:
* Continuing to manage the Program at the national level versus decentralizing the implementation of
selected activities (e.g. logistics, training, supervision, consumable material, and resource
management).  Lessons form  the previous phase support the decentralization of program
implementation and supervision supported by stronger community involvement.
• Building in-house capacity for or contracting-out selected program activities. While strengthening
in-house capacity through training and technical support, the Program will contract out several
activities, for which NFED does not have a comparative advantage.



5
(b) Fostering collaboration and complementarity among literacy providers.
The Program will foster greater collaboration and complementarity among literacy providers. The main
strategic choice considered here is whether NFED should use the NFLP as the framework for
strengthening the national literacy effort and ensuring partnerships among literacy providers, versus
continuing to undertake nearly all activities on its own. Specific modalities for expanding support to
NGOs and others were agreed during appraisal.
C: Project Description Summary
The Program aims at delivering good-quality and cost-effective basic functional literacy skills in 15
national languages and English, with a focus on: (i) enhancing NFED's management capacity; (ii)
monitoring and evaluating outcomes supported by research and tracer studies; (iii) ensuring access to
reading materials in local languages; (iv) improving and possibly expanding radio support to literacy
classes; (v) collaborating with one or two local non-governmental groups to assist literacy groups to
obtain and manage commercial loans for income generating activities; and (vi) fostering partnerships with
stakeholders, including non-NFED affiliated literacy providers, NGOs, communities, and district
assemblies to improve and sustain the program delivery.
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector            Costs      % of  rinancing    Bank-
(USSM)      Total   (US$M)   financing
1.Basic Literacy and Development Institution Building   27.6        60       21.3        67
Activity Program
2.English Pilot                 Institution Building     1.0         2        0.9         3
3.Literate Environment          Institution Building     1.2         3        1.0         3
4.Monitoring,  Evaluation   and  Project Management      1.4         3        1.4         4
Research Program
5.Radio                         Institution Building     2.0         4        1.9         6
6.Management  and  Institutional Project Management      5.3        12        5.0         16
Enhancement                 Institution Building
7.Non-Formal Education Division/a  Project Management    7.0        15        0.0         0
8. Project Preparation Facility                          0.5       1          0.5         1
Total      46.0        100      32.0        100
Total may not add up due to rounding; costs include contingencies.
a. Salaries and administrative costs estimated on the basis of the 1999 MTEF for NFED assuming 3% nominal
annual growth.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) Developing a medium-term national policy framework for Non-Formal Education;
(b) Introducing strategies for quality enhancement through improved instruction, facilitator and
supervisor training, material development, enhanced supervision (including community oversight),
and strengthened capacity to use radio to support the Program;
(c) Establishing effective monitoring and evaluation systems to assess both learner achievement and
implementation bottlenecks; and to learn from innovations;
(d) Decentralizing selected aspects of program management and supervision activities to the
regions/districts; strengthening management and implementation capacity to deliver Program
activities; and



6
(e) Encouraging partnerships with other literacy providers and communities to promote functional
literacy initiatives.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Program will benefit an estimated one million learners over the next five years, 60% of whom will be
women; and target areas with high rates of illiteracy and poverty (North and rural areas). Since illiteracy
is highly associated with poverty, a reduction in the adult illiteracy rate will contribute to reducing the
prevalence of poverty in the country. The BIA and other assessments of the previous phase found
important social benefits to participating in the literacy classes, beyond the acquisition of literacy and
numeracy skills. These include: increased self-esteem based both on the ability to read and the functional
knowledge gained; greater awareness of health issues such as proper sanitation and AIDS prevention, as
well as of other development-related issues taught in the classes; and some evidence that participation
was associated with increased primary school enrollment, particularly among the girls. In some areas, the
broader community also benefited through development projects, such as reforestation and latrines,
undertaken by classes.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a) Implementation period: Five years.
(b) Executing Agency: NFED/MOE
(c) Project Coordination: The NFED Management Team, led by the NFED Executive Director, will have
prime responsibility for overall Program coordination. The role, responsibilities, and functions of NFED
groups at national, regional, and district levels are included in the PIP. The NFED Management Team
and the MOE Funds and Procurement Management Unit (FPMU) staff will monitor implementation
progress quarterly.
(d) Procurement implementation: The FPMU will be responsible for procurement planning and
implementation and contract administration following procedures acceptable to IDA. NFED and FPMU
will together be responsible for preparing a two-year rolling plan for procurement activities as part of the
Annual Work Plan (AWP). An independent procurement consultant will be engaged under the credit to
conduct annual audits under terms of reference acceptable to IDA (see Annex 6).
(e) Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The FPMIJ will be primarily responsible
for the Program financial management, reporting, and auditing following systems and procedures
acceptable to IDA. NFED will strengthen its financial management capacity (systems and staff) to be
able to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to IDA within 20 months from credit
effectiveness and, at that time, will assume prime responsibility for the Program financial management.
Accounting records will be kept for all project-related expenditures and financing following generally
accepted accounting principles. Project accounts will be audited annually, following international
auditing standards, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. An annual audit report will be submitted
to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. The project special account will be managed
by FPMU, with the NFED Executive Director as co-signatory. NFED's decentralized administration will
be complemented with decentralized financial management controls and procedures at district and
regional levels acceptable to IDA. MOE will implement a time-bound action plan to strengthen FPMU
and NFED's financial management systems and staff (see Annex 6 for agreed financial management
action plan).
(f) Monitoring and evaluation (M/E) arrangements: NFED will be primarily responsible for the Program
M/E and guided by: (i) the Project Design Summary/Logframe (Annex 1); (ii) the PIP; and (iii) Annual
Work Program (AWPs), including two-year rolling activity plans, procurement schedule, budget



7
estimates, and financing requirements. The Program M/E arrangements include: (i) annual Program
implementation reviews, including a Program Mid-Term Review (MTR) by June 30, 2002, conducted
jointly by GOG, IDA and other stakeholders; (ii) quarterly implementation progress reviews by NFED
and FPMU; (iii) periodic monitoring and field supervision visits by NFED; and (iv) learner assessments,
tracer studies and MIS reporting. M/E reports by NFED include: (i) an annual report on implementation
progress, accomplishments and monitoring and evaluation results for the preceding period, including
recommendations for improving the Program performance, as v .i I as draft AWP for the following year;
and (ii) quarterly Project Management Reports. Key performance indicators for monitoring the AWP
implementation pertain to learner achievement and program targeting (see Annex 1). An Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after the Credit closing. NFED will
contribute to the ICR its own evaluation of the project and an operational plan for continued support to
the Program after the closing of the Credit.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Designing the NFLP to be implemented by NGOs, religious organizations and/or communities that
would be monitored by the Government. At present this option is not feasible given the limited capacity
of the NGO sector to deliver a Program of this magnitude and quality. In the near term, NFED will
continue to take lead responsibility for the quality of the Program while strengthening collaboration with
other literacy providers, communities, district assemblies and other stakeholders.
(b) Providing facilitators with incentives in cash. This will have eliminated the need to procure and
distribute the incentives in kind (currently sewing machines and bicycles) and the problems experienced
in the previous phase. NFED has rejected this option due to concerns that monetary compensation, like
salaries, may be subject to demands for regular adjustments. NFED opts to continue the current practice
of providing incentives in kind at the completion of the literacy cycle, but with greater variety of items for
the facilitators to choose from, and management at district rather than headquarters level. Periodic
incentives, such as sugar and flour, are to be provided by the communities.
(c) Conducting learner assessments covering all classes in each cycle. Lessons from Phase I suggest
that learner assessments covering all 8,000 classes (about 200,000 learners per cycle) are expensive
exercises of mixed quality. Instead, Phase II will include a simple self-assessment of all learners at entry
and exit. More in-depth learner assessments will be targeted at a small number of classes (about 50 each
year) based on a representative sample. These will provide the basis for tracer studies to evaluate
changes in functional literacy use and impact on selected development indicators such as children's
schooling and family health and planning, and on selected special topics aiming at improving the quality
and effectiveness of the Program.



8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing, and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
Sector issue                      Project               (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation       Development
___________________________   ________Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
* Supported structural reforms and quality  EDSAC I (Cr. 1744-GH)  OED Project Performance Ratings:
improvement within  the  coordinated  Effective in April 1987  Outcome - Satisfactory
framework  of a  sector  adjustment  and closed on Dec. 1991    Sustainability - Likely
operation (SECAL). Focused on junior                          Institutional Development (ID) Impact -
secondary education.                                          Substantial
* Supported  the  Government  reform  EDSAC II (Cr. 2140-GH)   Outcome - Unsatisfactory
program   within  the   coordinated  Signed on 6/20/90 and  Sustainability - Unlikely
framework  of a  sector adjustment closed on 12/31/94         ID Impact - Modest
operation (SECAL). Most of the
resources were concentrated on Senior
Secondary Schools.
* Increased  access  to  non-residential  COMMUNITY             Outcome - Satisfactory
Senior   Secondary    Schools   in  SECONDARY SCHOOLS  Sustainability - Unlikely
underserved areas with special emphasis  CONSTRUCTION         ID Impact - Modest
on  increasing  girls  enrollment  in  PROJECT (Cr. 2278-GH)
secondary technical schools.         Signed on 7/08/91  and
closed on 6/30/95
* Supported   and   consolidated  the  ADULT       LITERACY  Outcome - Satisfactory
Government's  national    functional AND       FUNCTIONAL  Sustainability - Uncertain
literacy program in order to improve the  SKILLS  PROJECT  (Cr.  ID Impact - Modest
quality of life of the poorest Ghanaians, 2349-GH)   Signed   on
especially those in the rural areas.  4/22/92  and  closed  on
12/31/97
* Supported the first phase (1992-96) of TERTIARY                   Satisfactory        Satisfactory
the  Government's  tertiary  education  EDUCATION  PROJECT
reform   program,  with  stress  on  (Cr. 2428-GH)
improving the quality of teaching and  Signed on 11/09/92 and
learning;   improving    management  scheduled  to  close  on
capacity; increasing  autonomy  with  9/30/98
accountability for the universities; and
expanding enrollments gradually.
* Assisted the Government in increasing  PRIMARY     SCHOOL         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory
learning achievements and enrollments in  DEVELOPMENT
primary schools throughout the country.   PROJECT (Cr. 2508-GH)
Signed on 7/26/93 and
closed on 12/31/98
* Redirecting the focus of both public and  VOCATIONAL  SKILLS      Satisfactory        Satisfactory
private vocational training institutions  PROJECT (Cr. 2695-GH)
towards    demand-driven   training,  Signed on 6/30/95  and
improve informal sector product quality  scheduled  to  close  on
and productivity in five occupational 6/30/2001
areas, and create institutional capacity.



9
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
Sector issue                     Project               (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
. Improve   the teaching process and  BASIC EDUCATION             Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
learning outcomes; strengthen planning, (Cr. 2885-GH)
monitoring and evaluation activities at Signed on 7/16/96 and
central, regional, district and school scheduled  to  close  on
levels;  improve  access  to  basic  06/30/2001
education, especially of girls, the poor
and other disadvantaged segments of the
population;  and   ensure  financial
sustainability  of  the   Government
program for basic education over the
longer term.
. Increase access to and improve the  POST-BASIC                    planned             planned
quality of post-basic education.    EDUCATION APL
. Test mechanisms focused on nutrition/ COMMUNITY                   planned             planned
food  security, street children, and  DEVELOPMENT LIL
poverty  program   monitoring   and  To    be    negotiated
evaluation.                         April/May 1999
Other development agencies
. Basic education                     USAID, DFID, UNICEF,
GTZ, JICA, and EU
• Tertiary education                  ADB
. Vocational school development       GTZ
* Teacher Education                   France
. Technical and vocational education  Japan
. Vocational   training    Institutional UNDP/ILO
strengthening
IP/DO  Ratings:   HS  (Highly  Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U  (Unsatisfactory), HU  (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Implementation Completion Report for Phase I identifies the following key lessons:
(a) Literacy interventions need to be continually monitored to ensure that they are effective. Monitoring
and evaluation systems need to be established from the start of the project, with baseline data and clear
indicators to assess learning achievement and other benefits. The timely collection and processing of
relevant and reliable data is critical for assessing the impact of the project and for making necessary
adjustments. Applied research and the application of research findings are critical for increasing the
effectiveness of the project. The program design includes learner assessments, tracer studies and research
as well as the relevant instruments. NFED's capacity will be strengthened through training and technical
assistance.
(b) The Program must respond to learners' needs, allow flexibility for adjustments to local conditions,
and operate within a framework of agreed parameters and indicators of quality (i.e., duration of
instruction, class attendance, learning outcomes). The second phase of NFLP will maintain its flexibility
to ensure local conditions are reflected in the scheduling of classes and the relevance of learning and



10
teaching materials. Greater emphasis will be placed in defining program success and monitoring learners,
primarily through an enhanced MIS, learner assessments and tracer studies.
(c) The results of the BIA showed that learners want to acquire skills and practices that will allow them
to increase their social and economic potential, yet concluded that acquiring new knowledge did not often
translate into behavioral change. For the second phase, periodic information on knowledge, attitudes and
practices will be collected, analyzed, and incorporated into the program. Greater collaboration with
NGOs, donors, and the Ministries of Health and Agriculture will also be sought.
(d) Offering rewards to facilitators for their good performance has been effective, even though project
management has had problems in delivering them. The Program will continue providing facilitators
incentives in-kind, but of a greater variety to maintain their motivation over the longer-term. Appropriate
criteria will be used uniformly to select and reward facilitators.
(e) Efforts to establish a literate environment have been disappointing. A number of actions will be taken
to facilitate production of reading materials: (i) newspapers will be produced locally rather than centrally;
(ii) production of easy-to-read books will be organized by NFE regional coordinators; and (iii) greater
attention will be given to training in the use of silk screen presses, so that learners can produce materials
of their own.
Key relevant lessons from other literacy programs include:
(a) Attention should be given to quality and careful targeting through site and beneficiary selection
criteria, involvement of local govemment and community groups, and increased reliance on financial
institutions managing funds for income generating groups (Indonesia - Second Nonformal Education
Project, World Bank OED, Report No. 09850, 1991); (b) A close relationship between fornal and non-
formal education is desirable (Indonesia - Non-Formal Education Project, World Bank, OED Report No.
06304, 1986).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government commitment to the NFLP is demonstrated by the fact that the Government of Ghana (GOG)
continues to finance the Program even after the closing of the IDA credit. Nonetheless, without a greater
allocation of resources, it will be difficult to maintain the current level of service delivery or to enhance
its quality. GOG has obtained a PPF to support preparation activities and is taking steps to meet the
conditions for credit effectiveness.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Since 1991 IDA has been supporting GOG in the development and implementation of the NFLP. The
value-added of Bank support includes the Bank's own experience in similar projects and access to
worldwide knowledge. IDA's continued support to the Program also contributes to the poverty reduction
and promotion of gender objectives.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Effectiveness is measured as achieving the proposed final product of the project in a satisfactory manner,
i.e.: literate adults who complete the literacy cycle and sit for a test. For the costing, all the processes
required for establishing/running the program are taken into account. The analysis is simple, the unit cost
expected for producing a literate adult is stated. A list of unit costs for similar programs in other



11
countries appears in Annex 4. While existing information to assess effectiveness of the proposed Program
is limited, establishing a close monitoring/impact evaluation system during implementation will help
assess alternative ways of effective program delivery. To the extent that one type of program achieves
better results than another or has different costs, adjustments could be made to improve cost-
effectiveness.
Phase I
The main benefit of Phase I was to provide reading, writing and numeracy skills to its beneficiaries.
About seventy percent of those initially enrolled completed the course. A learning assessment was
administered to program completers in 1997. Of the 80% who completed, the mean score was 70 points
out of 100. The assessment tested neo-literates on: writing, reading comprehension, numeracy, cognitive,
attitude, and functionality skills.2 The unit cost per enrolled learner for Phase I was US$24 for the 21-
month cycle, while the unit cost per successful literate graduate was US$43.
Phase II
The main benefit of Phase II will continue to be providing basic literacy skills for illiterate adults. The
projected unit cost per enrolled learner is estimated at US$38 for the 21-month literacy cycle while the
cost per successful learner is estimated at US$53, which takes into account a drop out rate of 20% and
successful learning outcomes for at least 90% of graduates. Higher costs than in Phase I are associated
with the introduction of additional inputs to enhance program quality (e.g., stronger class supervision,
more and improved materials). To further improve the effectiveness of Phase II, the Program will use
results of assessments to adjust its operations. Periodic impact evaluation studies of both NFED and non-
NFED classes are planned to identify how and where the most effective actions are undertaken, and at
what cost. Tracer studies will be introduced to assess the long-term sustainability of acquired skills, the
program's impact on earnings, attitude and behavior. The program's impact will also be monitored
through the CWIQ Survey3 and monitoring records in health centers.
Since literacy may bring direct economic benefits to learners, evidence of such benefits could be used to
further justify investment. While direct measurement of the monetary benefits or employment patterns of
literacy programs in Ghana is not currently feasible due to lack of data on literacy program graduates,
there is information available on illiterate adults allowing for comparison of their earnings with those of
adults who have reached initial basic literacy (using four years of formal primary schooling as a proxy)4.
This analysis will provide a reference ceiling on the monetary benefits that can be accrued from literacy
programs. The data used for this analysis is the 1991/92 Ghana Living Standards Survey (GSSL3), the
results of which indicate that earnings of basic literates (using the proxy described previously) are higher
than those of individuals with no education. A conventional rate of return analysis using the differential
in the earnings profiles yields a private rate of return of 43% for females and 24% for males, and a social
rate of return of 18% for females and 14% for males (this analysis is available in the project files).
2 The total possible score on the assessment was 100, which represents the sum of the total possible scores in each of six
sections. In the writing section the total possible score was 12 (actual mean score was 8.1), the reading comprehension total
score was 8 (actual mean score was 5.1); the numeracy section had a total score of 20 (actual mean score was 14.7), and the
cognitive, attitudinal, and functionality sections of the test had each a total possible score of 20 (mean scores were 14.7, 12.9
and 14.7, respectively). The sum of each of the actual mean scores amounts to 70.
3 The CWIQ will be adjusted to allow respondents to identify adult literacy as their highest educational attainment. This would
permit a quantitative study of literacy graduates.
4 Educators generally agree that 3-4 years of primary schooling is a reasonable proxy to estimate basic literacy.



12
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Fiscal impact:
Financial Sustainability. The type of literacy program that GOG proposes to undertake for the next five
years has an annual cost of about US$9 million per year. While it can be reasonably expected that
improvements in access to and quality of formal schooling may reduce the need for remedial literacy for
the younger school cohorts, exhausting the pool of adult illiterates is not foreseeable within the next
decade. Long-term sustainability of the program is an issue that will have to be revisited in the future.
Under the proposed financing plan, GOG will have to allocate about US$13.5 million (including
estimated taxes and duties of about US$2 million) from its own resources over the next five years in order
to finance about 30% of the cost of Phase II. The Government's 1999-2001 Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) contains an allocation of about US$2 million per year for NFED, which represents
0.68% of the sector budget for 1999, 0.63% for 2000 and 0.55% for 2001. Education expenditure is
expected to be 35-40% of total (discretionary) public recurrent expenditure during these years
(MOE/MTEF, 1998). The MTEF allocation for the outer years will require a slight increase so that the
total GOG allocation for the Program amounts to about US$11.5 million net of taxes and duties.
3. Technical:
The proposed Program design is technically sound and appropriate for the targeted groups. It is based on
the lessons learned from Phase I (1992-1997), as well as on ten studies covering key aspects of the
Program. The Management Information System and the radio components depend on ordinary
technology that is available in the country. Monitoring and evaluation instruments, including learner
assessments, tracer studies and research, are being imbedded in the program design and developed up
front. Pilot activities and improvements, e.g., in the English language and radio components, are being
designed for possible scaling-up. The overall Program cost is estimated using the activity based-cost
approach and data from Phase I; and reflects the cost for improvements over the previous phase in the
areas of class inputs, reading materials, supervision and training costs, monitoring and evaluation and
capacity building. The allowances for physical and price contingencies are based on experience and
projections.
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies: During Program preparation, NFED's institutional capacity was assessed by
independent consultants. Key among the recommendations are: (i) NFED should be "established" as an
autonomous entity within MOE; NFED should assess existing staff in light of program requirements; and
develop job descriptions and performance appraisals; (ii) HRD and decentralization strategies should be
developed along with action plans for implementation over a period of three years. At negotiations, the
Government confirmed that all required steps for the formal establishment of NFED as an autonomous
entity within MOE have been completed as of May 5, 1999. In addition, agreement was reached on
development of a draft Non-Formal Education policy framework by December 31, 2001.
(b) Project management: The financial management and procurement capacity of NFED and FPMU has
been assessed following Bank guidelines. In line with this, agreement has been reached on a time-bound
action plan to improve the financial management performance of NFED and FPMU, and to strengthen
FPMU's capacity for procurement implementation (see "Conditions of Effectiveness" and Annex 6).
(c) Technical support. Several Program activities and improvements will need to be further developed
during the first two years of Program implementation with support from qualified technical specialists
with broad international experience. The Program will continue to team international consultants with
local consultants and NFED staff to strengthen local capacity in all Program areas.



13
5. Social:
The 1997 CWIQ survey found that 47.9% of the total population over 15 was literate while only 36.4% of
the female population was literate. There are wide regional and ruraVurban variations with only 3.5% of
the female population literate in rural parts of the Northern region (14.5% of the male population) and
66.4% of the female population in Greater Accra (86.5% of the male population). In terms of socio-
economic groups, own-account agricultural workers have the lowest literacy rate, 35.4% (24.7% females)
while public sector employees (78.9%) and private sector formal workers (73.3%) have the highest rates.
NFED's target population, based on the development objectives, is illiterate adults, particularly women
and residents of rural areas. NFED data show that this is the population reached by during Phase I,
during which more than half of participants were women (61% during 1997), although there were
significant regional variations (41% Northern Region, 76% Greater Accra). Under 5% of participants
were under 15 years old. The BIA evaluation of Phase I concluded that program targeting was good and
that the majority of literacy participants were poor. This conclusion should be refined in the light of the
CWIQ data showing high levels of illiteracy among the non-poor population, particularly in rural areas.
A potential area for research by the NFED during Phase II concerns how to ensure the poorest segments
of the population benefit from the program.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category   [] A     [IB   [X] C
N/A
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups (CON): NFED has adopted a consultative approach
to incorporate stakeholders in the preparation and implementation of Phase II. The first consultative
workshop took place in April 1998 when the findings of the BIA and ICR on the previous phase were
discussed, including assessment of results, benefits and impact on target population, perfornance of key
actors, and lessons learned.
(b) Other key stakeholders (COL/IS): The stakeholders include literacy providers, NGOs (e.g.
ACTION/AID, 31st December Women's Movement), other ministries (e.g. Health, Local Government,
Agriculture), and program implementers from the regional, district and class levels. These same
stakeholders participated in a follow-on three day planning workshop to develop the logframe (Annex 1)
used as the foundation for the proposed program. During the workshop, the stakeholders contributed to
setting the Program objectives, scope, components, key performance indicators, and risks. The Program
provides for continued consultations with these groups.
(c) Communities (IS) and District Assemblies (CON/COL). The Program provides mechanisms for
upstream "community entry and mobilization," and collaboration with District Assemblies, NGOs, and
other organizations in the program delivery.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The cost per learner is low compared to that in other similar programs. In the next five years, the
Program will support substantial institutional capacity building and investment activities; e.g., expansion
of radio broadcasting, that are likely to diminish over time. Among the factors that will affect the
sustainability of the program are: (i) Government's ability to allocate adequate resources to the Program;
(ii) NFED's capacity to ensure improved quality and cost effectiveness of the Program of services it
delivers; and (iii) neo-literates' ability to sustain their literacy skills. Financial sustainability will improve
through cost-effective measures built into the program and adequate GOG financing, particularly of
essential inputs that ensure the quality of learning, including reading materials, facilitator/supervisor
training, and supervision. Institutional capacity will be strengthened through training and out-sourcing of



14
some tasks to the private sector. Literacy and functional skills acquired by learners will be sustained
through renewed and revamped efforts to promote the development of written materials in local
languages.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                       Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
* Demand for literacy classes may cease.           N         . Mapping  of illiteracy  pockets  and
targeting   specific   groups   using
mechanisms such as community entry
activities and NGO collaboration. As
there are about four million illiterate
adults in Ghana, it is unlikely that the
demand for basic literacy skills will
cease in the next five years.
* Targeted groups may not be motivated to enroll   M         * Maintaining a quality program that is
and remain in literacy classes                               flexible and relevant to current needs of
beneficiaries (women and rural poor
aged 15-45).
From Components to Outputs
* Political support may not be extended to the      M        * Extensive     consultations     and
Program at all levels of the administration                  collaboration  with    all  relevant
Government units. Dissemination of
results.
* Community/civil society may not be supportive     M        * Entry    mechanisms   to   involve
of the Program and its developmental objectives              communities/civil society   in  the
organization and support  of literacy
classes.   Dissemination of program
success.
^ Collaborating agencies, including NGOs, may not   S        4 Regular consultations and information
be providing support to the Program                          sharing. Encourage NGOs and other
literacy providers to collaborate in
partnership pilots and delivery of
literacy classes.
. Stable and competent Program leadership may not   H        * NFED's  institutional  establishment
be maintained. Program  may not be able to                   completed. Development of HRD and
hold/recruit as necessary high quality staff.                staff decentralization strategy; and NFE
policy framework.
* Timely release of the agreed budgets by the GOG   S        * Agreed budgeting procedures and release
of funds for the Program on the basis of
two-year rolling Annual Work Plans
monitored   quarterly;  and   annual
program implementation reviews.
Overall Risk Rating                                 M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Issues concerning non-performing or unqualified NFED staff, including zonally-based supervisors.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  FPMU financial management procedures manual are operational, and qualified accounts staff (one
Senior Accountant and two Accounts Officers) are in place. A professionally-qualified Principal
NFED Accountant is in place (see Annex 6).
*  Procurement procedures manual of FPMU  are operational, and qualified Deputy Director
(Procurement Services) and a Procurement Officer are in place.
*  The learner assessment and tracer study instruments are prepared, tested, and found satisfactory.
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
*  Disbursement conditions for "radio" (expansion to new stations and support to the English pilot)
contingent on positive findings of: (i) impact assessment study of existing radio scheme; (ii)
feasibility study for radio expansion; and (iii) feasibility study for radio support to English classes.
*  NFED will prepare a Human Resource Development and staff decentralization strategy by December
31, 2000 and implement by December 31, 2002.
*  NFED will develop a draft Non-Formal Education Policy Framework by December 31, 2001.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 1. b) Not applicable.
[X] 2. The draft procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
in substance.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G
i: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team L       Irene Xen 
Sector MAnags=11Helena Ribe                      Country Director: Peter Harrold



16
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GHANA: National Functional Literacy Program
Hierarchy of Objectives                 Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:             Sector Indicators:                             Sector / Country Reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The  productivity  and    welfare  of Core  welfare  indicators  (education,  health, . Core  Welfare  Indicators . Government continues with
Ghanaians improves.                  employment,  household  status)  improved  --   Questionnaire    (CWIQ)    its development agenda of
(Baseline: CWIQ 1997)                            Survey;   other standard    broad-based  social  and
surveys, e.g., GLSS          rural  development  and
direct poverty alleviation
efforts
Project Development Objective:       Outcome / Impact Indicators:                   Project Reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Increase the number of functionally  At the end of each basic literacy cycle, 70% of a - Annual MIS  reports and  . Quality prograns in formal
literate adults aged 15-45, particularly of sample of enrolled adults in each batch able to:  periodic  monitoring  and   education are provided.
women and the rural poor.            - read and comprehend a short essay of   3   field  supervision   visits
(a functional literate can engage in  paragraphs;                                     (NFED)
activities in which literacy is required for . write a simple one-page letter; and  . Learners' assessments at
effective functioning of his/her group  . perform  simple calculations in 4 arithmetical  end   of  literacy  cycle
and community and also for enabling   operations with numbers of up to one million.   (NFED)
him/her to continue to use reading, . have participated in development activity projects   . Formative evaluations
writing and calculation for his/her own . demonstrate behavioral change and civic awareness  . Tracer studies (NFED)
and the community's development).
Output from each component:          Output Indicators:                             Project Reports:            (from Outputs to Objective
1. Basic Literacy and Development Basic literacy skills training in the selected 15 - Annual MIS  reports and  . Demands for literacy classes
Activity Program Implemented         national languages with enrollment of 200,000   periodic  monitoring  and   continues.
Literacy   program   is  established, learners/cycle of which at least:               field  supervision   visits . Targeted    groups    are
operational, and providing services to the . 40%  classes in the North  (regions: Northern,  (NFED)               motivated  to  enroll  and
targeted groups.                      Upper-West, Upper-East)                       . Annual           Program   remain in literacy classes
* 60% of classes in rural areas                 implementation    reviews . NGOs and other providers
* 60% of enrolled learners women                (joint NFED/IDA)            deliver  literacy  in  Non-
NFED languages.



17
2. English Pilot Expanded            2.1 English classes                             . Learner assessment
English classes: 100, 150, 200, 400, 500  At the end of each English literacy cycle, 70% of a
for years I to 5, respectively.      sample of enrolled adults able to:
. read and comprehend a short essay of 3 paragraphs
. write a simple one-page letter
3. Literate Environment Enhanced    3.1 Number of appropriate titles per language . Annual             Program
Access to reading materials          produced annually through regional mechanisms    Implementation   Reviews
(Joint NFED/IDA)
4.       Implemented  Monitoring, MIS data complete, reliable and timely every year    . same as above
Evaluation and Research Program      Annual  learners'  assessments  conducted  and
analyzed promptly
Tracer studies and impact assessments carried out as
planned
Research plan and pilots carried out as planned
Formative evaluations carried out periodically
5.    Literacy classes supported by  5.1  Quality and efficiency of existing system  . same as above
Radio Broadcasting                   improved
Stage I - Existing system improved
Stage II - (a) expansion to cover four
more national stations and (b) English
language interactive radio
Triggers  include:  positive  impact
assessment of existing radio broadcasting
and positive feasibility assessment for
expansion and use of radio in the English
classes.



18
6. Management/Institutional Capacity
Enhanced                            6.1.1 Annual quantitative and qualitative targets , Annual MIS reports and
1. Improved program management          achieved as planned                        periodic  monitoring  and
6.1.2 Utilization of MER work to improve program   field  supervision   visits
effectiveness                             (NFED)
. Formative       program
2. Non-formal   education    policy 6.2 Policy framework presented at mid-term review    evaluation
framework developed                 6.3.1 Human  resource  development and  staff . Audit reports (independent)
3. Improved institutional capacity       decentralization  strategies  developed  and e Annual      program
action plan carried out during the first three  implementation    reviews
years.                                    (joint NFED/IDA)
4. Effective partnerships with other 6.3.2 Decentralized  resource  management  in . NFED   agreements  with
literacy providers/NGOs established      operation                                 NGOs
. Annual database of literacy
5. Professional facilitation of Income 6.4 Increased collaboration with NGOs and other  providers
Generating Activities                providers
. NFED agreements with
6.5Number of literacy groups obtained micro-credit  selected NGO for training
by the end of the Program.



19
Project Components/Sub-components:  Inputs: (budget for each component)          Project Reports:           (from    Components   to
Outputs)
1. Basic Literacy and Development                      US$27.6                   . same as above            . Political support extended to
Activity Program                                                                                               the Program at all levels
. Community/civil society are
2. English Pilot                                        US$1.0                                                 supportive of the Program
and  its  developmental
3. Literate Environment                                 US$1.2                                                 objectives
. Collaborating   agencies,
4. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research                  US$1.4                                                 including  NGOs,    are
Program                                                                                                        providing support to the
Program curriculum
5. Radio                                               US$2.0                                               . Stable   and   competent
Program       leadership
6.  Management  and  Institutional                      US$5.3                                                 maintained
Enhancement                                                                                                 . Program able to hold/recruit
as necessary high quality
7. Non-formal Education Division                        US$7.0                                                 staff.
. Timely release of the agreed
8. PPF                                                  US$0.5                                                 budgets by the GOG
. Facilitators (basic literacy
and  English    classes)
sufficiently motivated
* Micro-credit is available to
enable people to be more
productive.



20
Annex 2: Project Descriptions
Ghana National Functional Literacy Program
The proposed credit will support the Government's National Functional Literacy Program
over the next five years. Preparation of the Program components was facilitated by ten studies
(financed under a Japanese grant). These studies focused on the following areas: Basic Literacy;
Evaluation of the English Pilot; Creation of a Literate Environment; Monitoring, Evaluation,
Research and Supervision; Radio Broadcasting; Management and Institutional Capacity; Non-
formal Education Policy; Financial Management; Mapping of Literacy Providers; and Evaluation
of Income Generating Activities. The findings of these studies were presented to a broad-based
group of stakeholders in Ghana, have been incorporated into the design of the Program
components described in this annex, and will be used as base-line references during
implementation.
Project Component 1 - Basic Literacy and Development Activity Program --US$27.6
million
a) Current situation. This component has formned and will continue to form the core of the
Program. Its main objectives are to teach basic literacy, numeracy and functional skills in 15
Ghanaian languages. Classes meet for at least six hours per week, over a 21-month period
(assuming classes will not take place during planting and harvesting seasons), which should
result in a total of 300-plus instructional hours. During Phase I approximately 1.3 million
learners enrolled in the program. The 1997 assessment of learning achievement indicated
that the assessed learners obtained a mean score of 70 (out of 100).
During Phase II, program scope will be held essentially constant up to 200,000
learners/cycle, and the length of a cycle will remain at 21 months. At the same time, effort
will be made to improve the quality of every aspect of program implementation. The target
population will remain the same; i.e., it will continue to include learners between 15 and 45
years of age, with a focus on women and on people living in rural areas. Classes will
continue to be taught by volunteer facilitators, who are to be nominated by their communities
to lead the classes, and be supervised by NFED staff located at the zonal (sub-district) level.
In order to reinforce some of the development messages contained in the primer (e.g., how to
keep drinking water clean, how to improve nutritional status, how to treat severe diarrhea),
the Program will continue to incorporate "development activities" into the basic literacy
curriculum.
b) Improvements. NFED is in the process of strengthening its operations in the following ways:
Mobilization activities will be increased, to sensitize communities and seek their active
participation in the running of the classes. Community entry will include visits to chiefs,
opinion leaders, and community based organizations in an effort to bring them in from the
start and encourage them to oversee the implementation of the program. This will be
complemented by publicity activities, theater for development, radio and television spots.
The objective is to establish a literacy advisory committee for each class, to provide support
for the management and supervision of the class.
Building on this foundation, communities will select volunteer facilitators to run the classes.
A total of 8,000 facilitators will be required for each literacy cycle. The facilitator training
5 Components' cost include contingencies.



21
program and facilitator's manual are being revamped, with the objective of making
classroom teaching increasingly participative, with more emphasis on active learning and less
on syllable drills and group repetition. It is assumed that 40% of serving facilitators will be
retained from year I to year 2, and from year 2 to year 3. After that time, it is believed that
demand for literacy classes will have been met in the initial catchment areas, and that it will
be necessary to recruit all new facilitators beginning in year 3. Between year 3 and year 4,
and year 4 and year 5, it is assumed that 40% of serving facilitators will continue to be
involved in the Program.
In order to support facilitators in their classes, zonally-based supervisors (currently 1,200
full-time NFED staff) will visit each class twice monthly. This element of program
implementation is being strengthened in two ways. First, NFED has developed job
descriptions and qualifications for supervisors, and is in the process of identifying those
supervisors who meet the new standards. Those who do not will be redeployed within
NFED, away from supervisory responsibilities. Second, training for supervisors is also being
redesigned, with an emphasis on providing professional support to facilitators. Each
supervisor will be responsible for 10 or 15 classes, depending on the distance, of
approximately 25 learners each. It is expected that 600-800 supervisors will be required for
each literacy cycle, totaling 1,200-1,600 over the five-year period. Supervisors are to be
supported in their work by NFE district staff. The supervision plan and staffing requirements
will be reviewed jointly by NFED and IDA before the commencement of literacy classes.
In order for NFED to have better information on learning achievement, a reliable learner
assessment is being developed to measure literacy and numeracy skills, as well as knowledge
of key development issues (e.g., how to keep water clean, how to treat diarrhea, how to
prevent AIDS, etc.). The assessment will be carried out on a small sample of learners, and
will form the basis for tracer studies. Data gathered through the tracer studies will provide
indications of the extent to which literacy program completers have changed/improved their
lives over time. In addition, the majority of learners will undergo a simple "self-assessment"
at the beginning and end of the 21-month cycle, to indicate progress made over time. At the
end of each cycle, learners will be issued a certificate of course completion.
In addition, all manuals will be revised to provide clearer guidance to facilitators and
supervisors to ensure more active learning, and workbooks for numeracy and writing will be
provided.
c) Inputs. Classes will be supplied with basic inputs, and facilitators/supervisors with working
tools including: learner kit (primer, supplementary readers, exercise books, pencil and eraser,
work book for arithmetic, and work book for writing); facilitator kit (primer, pens,
facilitator's manual, development activities manual, silk screen manual, MIS manual, MIS
forms, flash light, a pair of Wellington boots, rain coat, felt pens, newsprint, book files, and
satchel); class kit (chalk board, chalk, flip chart, pre-set radio, lanterns, silk screen press, and
book box); supervisor kit (Wellington boots, rain coat, flash light, primer, facilitators manual,
supervisors manual, MIS forms, MIS manual, development manual, pens, and a calculator);
and development inputs (mango seedling, citrus seedling, onion seeds, pepper seeds, maize
seeds, groundnut seeds, muslin cloth, ORS packets)
Those facilitators who successfully complete a literacy cycle will receive a final incentive.
During Phase 1 these included either a bicycle or a sewing machine. The new incentive
package will include these same items, along with one or two others, each with a value of



22
US$100 per facilitator/cycle. In addition, NFED will encourage communities to provide a
nominal incentive (e.g., rice, sugar, soap) twice each year to support facilitators in their work.
Further, NFED proposes to strengthen supervision through the provision of motorcycles to all
supervisors and four-wheel drive vehicles to all district offices. An evaluation of existing
vehicles and motorcycles will be presented to IDA prior to the award of contract for any new
vehicles or motorcycles.
d) Key Policies and Guidelines. Number of instructional hours per cycle; criteria for opening
new classes; criteria for facilitator selection; composition and termns of reference for literacy
class advisory committees; completion rate per cycle; criteria for certification of successful
completers; facilitator incentive package and criteria for distribution of incentives; duration
and frequency of facilitator and supervisor training; and scope of supervision responsibility
and frequency of supervision visits.
e) Implementation. Program implementation will depend on close coordination among players
at all levels of the system. These include: NFED headquarters, regional, and district offices;
Funds and Procurement Management Unit/MOE; non- governmental organizations; and other
government ministries (e.g., district-based representatives from the Ministry of Health or
Agriculture). The support and assistance of local communities and district assemblies will
also be needed to ensure program success.
Project Component 2 - English Pilot --US$1.0 million
a) Current situation. In response to strong demand for literacy training in English, NFE ran
during Phase I a small English pilot project covering 20 classes in three districts. Two
facilitators were provided to each class, and supervision was handled by NFE district staff.
All costs were covered by NFED. Evaluation of this experience confirmed the strength of
demand, and strongly supported a continuation of the project. At the same time it indicated a
number of areas where implementation issues need to be addressed, particularly in terms of
ensuring better attendance rates, improving class lighting, developing a reliable assessment
instrument to measure progress (including a baseline assessment), employing a more
systematic facilitator selection process, improving the content and frequency of facilitator
training, strengthening community entry to elicit local support and sense of ownership, and
refining the English primer and instructional manual. In addition, the evaluation suggested
that a radio-based component be added for a limited number of classes on a pilot basis.
b) Improvements. It is proposed that the expansion of the pilot proceed at a measured pace,
starting with 100 classes and gradually increasing to 500 classes by the end of the five-year
period. The objective is to ensure the quality of instruction, supervision, and management of
the activity. New classes will be comprised of learners who have successfully completed the
basic literacy cycle. NFED proposes to introduce an element of cost recovery by requiring
learners to provide their own writing materials, pens and exercise books when the initial
supply provided by NFED is depleted.
c) Key policies and guidelines. Criteria for opening new classes (targeting); targets, pace of
expansion, and location of classes over the five-year period; revision of all written materials,
including the English primer and facilitator/supervisor manuals; to community entry
messages about the English pilot; number of instructional hours; class size and class inputs;
facilitator and supervisor selection criteria and training; facilitator incentives; scope of
supervisorial responsibility; items to be paid for by learners; extent of radio programming to



23
support this component; criteria for selecting "collaborators" to receive the primers and
manuals;  "out  of  station"  training  allowance;  criteria  and  mechanism   for
acquisition/production of "bridge-gap" readers; incorporation of English books in the
bookboxes; arrangements for learner assessment; and criteria for certification.
d) Implementation. The Materials Development Unit of NFED will continue to oversee the
English pilot implementation.
Project Component 3 - Literate Environment --US$1.2 million
a) Current situation. During Phase I a number of mechanisms were designed to produce
reading materials so that new literates will be able to continue reading in the local languages.
Implementation experience was mixed, from which a number of lessons have been learned.
First, central management and production of materials is difficult to manage, and this should
be decentralized wherever possible. Second, the need for careful planning of the entire
process from conceptualization through distribution is essential to successful implementation.
Third, if bookboxes are to be useful, they must be easily accessible to new literates (i.e., they
must not be shared between classes or kept in district offices).
b) Improvements. During Phase II, several changes are being made to increase the likelihood
that interesting materials, geared to the reading level of the new literates, will be produced.
Appropriate materials will be obtained through a number of mechanisms, and these materials
will be made available to learners through provision of one bookbox for each class. The
credit will support the following:
- Easy To Read Books: These stories will be collected from the learners and put
together in book form (as was initiated near the end of Phase I). Contents range from
reasons for joining the program and benefits from participating, to folk tales and other
stories. The purpose is to encourage learners to share their ideas with other learners
and to keep reading. The stories will be collected from learners in all regions, who
will narrate them onto tape recorders. Production responsibility will rest with the
headquarters Materials Development Unit, with support from regional and district
media officers, translators and the headquarters Desktop Publishing Unit.
*  Entertaining Story Books: These will be purchased mainly by NFED headquarters, as
90% of publishers are based in Accra. All publishers will be invited to submit suitable
finished books to NFED for evaluation. For small languages in which insufficient
books or manuscripts exist, Regional Language Committees (RLC) will solicit these
through advertisements on local radio stations and through local story competitions.
The RLCs will be led by NFE regional coordinators and will consist of the regional
media officer, at least one district media officer, a supervisor, two facilitators, two neo-
literates, local NGO representatives, and local authors.
*  Community newspapers: In light of the complications associated with earlier efforts to
produce newspapers in a timely fashion from NFED headquarters, it has been agreed
that these materials will need to be produced closer to the community. Literacy
supervisors will be responsible, using copy supplied by learners themselves, and
relying on silk screen presses for production.
*  Comic books and literacy board games, already initiated during Phase I, will be
supported by the headquarters Desktop Publishing Unit.
* Anthology: This is a new product, conceived as a District Magazine based on learner
writings, to encourage learners to write.  Articles will be supported with the
photograph, name, age and class of the author.



24
Materials to be purchased from other literacy provider: Selection will be based on a
survey, to be conducted at specialized educational institutions. Regional Literacy
Committees (RLC) will assess the materials to ensure their suitability.
c) lnputs. These will include silk screen presses, one bookbox per class, training. A detailed
implementation plan with specified inputs and costs will be produced with local and
international technical assistance.
d) Implementation  Key players in the implementation of this component include NFED
headquarters and regional officers; membership of the regional materials development
committees; the GBPA; and any organization identified as a supplier of existing written
materials.
e) Key policies and guidelines. Composition of RLC, and operating procedures; number of new
titles and quantities/language to be produced annually; terms of agreement with producers of
written materials; criteria for the production or purchase of materials in terms of their
appropriateness for new literates (e.g., font size, number of pages, level of difficulty);
complete contents of bookboxes (number of titles, number of copies); frequency of
replenishment of bookbox materials; disposition of bookbox at the end of the cycle/end of
facilitator's tenure.
Project Component 4 - Monitoring, Evaluation and Research Program --US$1.4 million
Supervision and MER systems need to measure and promote both the quantity of the Program
output and the quality of instruction. NFED's Program Supervision and MIS systems include
the following functions: (i) class supervision by NFED supervisors (about 1200); (ii) supervised
supervision and monitoring by higher level staff; and (iii) MIS and research located at national
level. These systems were developed and became operational in the course of the previous
phase of the Program; their continued improvement is critical for the success of the subsequent
phase. The preparation of the new Program takes into account findings and recommendations
included in the Report Research Project 5: Improvements in Supervision and MER Practices.
The Program will support the following activities and improvements.
4.1 Supervision/MIS
a)  Current situation. The evaluation of the previous phase of the Program as well as the preparation of
the subsequent phase have identified several issues concerning the Program supervision and the MIS.
Key among them are: the poor quality of supervision and lack of instructional support to facilitators;
and the failure of the MIS to promptly provide NFED management with reliable and current data for
planning and monitoring purposes.
b) Improvements. The Program will support improved supervision (see the Basic Literacy and
Development Activity Component) and MIS, through: qualified supervisors to provide
instructional support to facilitator; periodic supervised supervision and monitoring visits,
feedback, and follow up; and reliable, current, and useful MIS data for monitoring and
planning purposes. The qualifications of supervisors will be reviewed and upgraded,
mobility policies will be updated, training for facilitators and supervisors will be revamped
and the relevant manuals will be revised (PPF activity); MIS forms and procedures will be
reviewed and revised accordingly; and computerized data processing will gradually be
decentralized to regional offices as regional capacities are enhanced. Community members
will be engaged in the monitoring of class operations.



25
c) Key policies and guidelines. Policy for allocating transportation resources and working tools
for supervision on the basis of needs; supervisors qualifications and performance criteria;
supervision and monitoring TOR and procedures; community participation; feedback and
evaluation mechanisms.
d) Implementation. Prime responsibility: NFED Field Operations/MIS units. Supervision and
monitoring schedules along with TOR and resource requirements will be prepared prior to
commencing a literacy cycle; and be included in the Annual Work Plan. During the Annual
Program Review, draft proposals for the next cycle will be reviewed.
4.2 Learner Assessment
a) Current situation. NFED has developed a learner assessment instrument and in the last three
years has conducted terminal learner assessments annually covering all classes in a particular
cycle. The assessments have provided useful information about learners achievements,
awareness and behavior. change but their quality has been hampered by several factors,
including the large number of learners covered by the assessments.
b) Improvements. The Program will support: (a) the revision of the instrument for learner
assessment and terminal assessments on a sample basis; and (b) for the vast majority of
learners, a simple "self' assessment, undertaken by learners and their facilitators.
The learner assessment will be used in a pretest and post-test of individual learners and
the data should be recorded on an individual basis. Whole classes of students will be
tested and information about the class, facilitator, and supervisor will be recorded along
with demographic data about the students. This will allow analysis against these critical
factors. A minimum number of classes and a sampling scheme (size and makeup) that
will provide a representative sample for the whole program will be first determined. If
this sample is difficult to manage, a minimum sample size will be fifty classes (10 each in
five regions) for the first data collection. A new cohort of fifty classes could be started
every one or two years to build the sample size and diversity over time. The sample could
include a few additional classes that NFED identifies as representing their best classes so
that a benchmark for high quality can be set. A small comparison group of people who
resemble the participants, but do not attend the classes, will provide an indication that
these skill changes are not the result of some other factor, no matter how unlikely that
might be. Administering the test with adults and youth, who have between one and five
years of formal education, will provide a very rough yardstick for what the test might
mean in relation to the formal school system.
Simple SelfAssessment. The learner assessment instrument will be too resource intensive
to use as a base line and completion test for purposes of the MIS or to inform students of
their progress. Thus, for the vast majority of learners, a simple self assessment tool will
be developed that provides scores ranging between 0 and 5, to be administered by
facilitators and leamers themselves to provide an indication of starting level of
proficiency and progress over time.
c) Key policies and guidelines: Protocol for learner assessments; student/facilitator assessment
guidelines.
d) Implementation. The learner assessment instrument is being revised and will be tested; the
protocol and sampling scheme as well as self assessment guidelines will be prepared prior the
commencement of the next basic literacy cycle (PPF activity). MER/NFED will be
responsible to oversee the learner assessment activities.



26
4.3 Tracer Studies
a) Current situation. No tracer studies were undertaken in the previous phase of the Program. A
beneficiary impact assessment study was conducted in 1997.
b) Improvements. The Program will support tracer studies to look at changes in functional
literacy use after attending the class, measure literacy skill again after a year or two after
completion to assess retention, and investigate the impact of participation on a limited
number of development indicators, such as children's schooling, family health, and family
planning. A qualitative approach to measuring the impact on development indicators might
involve interviewing participants about these factors and looking for links back to the literacy
class experience and literacy activities that had taken place after the class was completed.
The learner assessment can be the first step in a tracer study. The comparison group selected
for the learner assessment will also be essential to the tracer studies. In order to get large
scale data on impact of participation in the literacy classes, NFED will request agencies such
as MOE, MOH, and Ghana Statistical Service to include questions about participation in
literacy programs in their research studies. If these studies added a question to the education
section of their instruments that asked, along with formal school history, for information on
participation in literacy classes, these studies might eventually identify impact.
c) Key policies and guidelines: Framework and guidelines for tracer studies and follow up
action.
d) Implementation. The tracer study framework is under preparation; and the instrument and
protocol will be prepared before the commencement of the next literacy cycle (PPF activity).
The MERINFED will be responsible to oversee tracer studies.
4.4 Research
a) Current situation. There is need for rigorous and continued research on selected topics and
for a simple mechanism that will allow NFED to review findings systematically and to adjust
policies and plans accordingly.
b) Improvements.  The Program will support research that will contribute to improving the
Program delivery and cost effectiveness and enable NFED to make necessary adjustments to
the Program during implementation. Among the topics identified during preparation are: use
of supervisors to improve the quality of instruction; management of book boxes and use of
local resources to provide a literate environment; identification of demand for the program
and needs for other services; partnerships with communities and organizations, including,
NGOs, CBOs, churches, other providers and district assemblies to support the Program;
exploration of alternative ways for service delivery to improve cost effectiveness. It is
envisaged that one or two studies per year will be conducted -prioritized on the basis of
agreed criteria. The Program will also support building NFED's staff capacity to be better
managers and consumers of research, even if NFED staff do not do the research themselves.
c) Key policies and guidelines: Framework and guidelines for research studies and follow up
action.
d) Implementation. The framework for a Research Plan is under preparation (PPF activity). The
MER/NFED will be responsible to oversee tracer studies. A two-year rolling Research Plan
along with TOR and resource requirements will be prepared prior to undertaking any



27
research study and be included in the relevant Annual Work Plan; it will be reviewed,
monitored, and adjusted during the Annual Program Review.
4.5 Capacity strengthening
a) Current situation. NFED needs to strengtien its capacity to plan, conduct and coordinate a variety
activities under the MER Program. The size, scope, and technical requirements of these activities will
determine the delivery mode. This touches upon issues of decentralization, outsourcing, linking with
relevant work of other organizations in Ghana and NFED staffing.
b) Improvements. The Program will support bridging NFED's capacity gap through: (a) external short
termn assistance to supplement the existing capacity; (b) training and fellowships to develop staff
capacities; (c) and improving relevant systems and procedures. Additionally, NFED will strengthen its
capacity by establishing linkages with other organizations including: (a) collaboration with the MOE
in the mapping of literacy classes and pockets of illiterates; (b) linking NFED's MIS data base to the
EMIS of MOE; (c) collaboration with the Ghana Statistical Services in the conduct of baseline
surveys; exploration of opportunities to link with the computerized District Education Offices set up
under the fCUBE.
c) Key policies and guidelines. NFED revised HRD and staff decentralization strategies and
action plans.
d) Implementation. External assistance to supplement existing capacity will be engaged as
needed for the specific Program activities. Staff training and systems strengthening for MER
will be part of the NFED's HRD and decentralization strategies and action plans -see
Management and Institutional Enhancement component. Staff training will be integrated into
the Training Plan of the Annual Work Plans.
Project Component 5 - Radio Broadcasting -US$2.0 million
a) Current Situation. During Phase I, financial support was provided to establish broadcasting
capacity at two Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC) stations, one in the Volta Region, the
other in the Northern Region. Programs are produced in four of the 15 functional literacy
program languages. Each station is run jointly with GBC, which handles the technical and
management functions for both its own local programs and those of NFED. NFED's
contribution consists of provision of broadcasting equipment, vehicles and renovation of
GBC buildings, and 28 producers who produce an equal number of programs for GBC as for
NFED. Although the original agreement stipulated that 60% of broadcasting hours were to
be devoted to the functional literacy program, in reality only about 10% of time (90
minutes/day) is devoted to NFE programming. Nonetheless, these programs attract a large
and loyal audience among literacy program learners.
b) Improvements. The primary objective under Phase II is to strengthen the existing capacity
and quality of the NFE radio component (sub-component a). Improvements are expected to
result from efforts to strengthen human capacity, policy and practice. This will include
greater support to program producers, including increased training, better supervision
systems, and provision of more adequate resources for travel and production. Regular and
continuing planning and training workshops are proposed (rather than a single infusion),
using a combination of local and international technical assistance. In addition, a phased
approach to expansion of radio coverage is being proposed (see criteria for expansion).
c) Inputs. Expenditure items are expected to include: training, travel and production costs,
equipment, technical assistance, monitoring, evaluation, and management. Specific inputs,



28
quanitities and costs will be agreed during appraisal, depending on the agreed plan for quality
improvement and gradual expansion.
d) Key policies and guidelines. Content, duration and frequency of training activities;
arrangements for supervision of radio production; evaluation of the impact of radio to date;
legal agreements with outside providers (e.g., GBC, independent stations); and management
arrangements for the component.
e) Implementation. Responsibility for implementing this component is expected to be shared
among:  NFED  headquarters and regional coordinators; NFED  producers; and any
collaborating stations (e.g., GBC, independent station managers).
f) Criteria for Expansion.  NFED (along with local and international technical support) is
assessing the situation across all ten regions in order to formulate a targeted plan to gradually
broaden coverage to literacy groups across the country. Prior to use of credit funds for
expansion of the radio component to either basic literacy or English literacy classes, NFED
will undertake the following studies financed by the credit: (i) impact assessment of the
existing scheme; (ii) expansion feasibility study; and (iii) feasibility study on support to
English classes. In support of the English pilot project, radio broadcasts will be developed
for initial use in 10-20 pilot classes, and for eventual expansion to all English classes. It is
expected that 20-30 minutes will be set aside once or twice a week for the classes to listen to
radio broadcasts. These are to be developed as "stand-alone" lessons, so that they can be
followed by any English class, regardless of what lesson it is at in the English primer.
Project Component 6 - Management & Institutional Enhancement --US$5.3 million
6.1 Institutional Development
a) Current situation.   Since 1992, NFED has been  responsible for the planning and
implementation of the Ghana NFLP. NFED operates at national, regional, and district levels
and includes a staff of about 1935 people -- about 166 are located at the National
Headquarters, 70 at the ten regional offices and the remaining 1699 at district offices (I 10).
NFED staff are committed to the NFLP and have gained good operational experience from
the implementation of the previous phase of the Program. A fairly large number of Ghana
Education Service (GES) staff work for NFED on secondment terms. NFED has now been
established as an entity within MOE.
b) Improvements. The enhancement of NFED's institutional capacity involves the following:
(a) based on an agreed organogram, conduct of a personnel review of all NFED staff in terms
of revised job specifications; (b) development of a sound HRD  strategy; and  (c)
development of a strategic plan for a phased decentralization of NFED's activities to regions
and districts (see the study on the "Institutional Management and Capacity Building
Development for Phase II of the Ghana Literacy and functional skills Programme"
(December 1998). It is envisaged that the above work will be completed in the first year of
the Program and implemented by the end of the third year.
c) Implementation.. The leadership of NFED supported by HRD/MOE and independent
technical specialists will assume prime responsibility.



29
6.2 Non-Formal Basic Education Policy Framework
a) Current situation. The NFLP has evolved from the "Mass Literacy and Social Change
Program" (MASSLIP), a broad policy document providing for the eradication of illiteracy in
Ghana.
b) Improvements. The Program will support analytical work to identify and clarify broader non-
formal education sector issues; and the development of a medium-term policy framework
that, in addition to the targeting the backlog of illiterate adults, will target other groups as
well, i.e. poorly-educated or uneducated youth, particularly girls.
c) Implementation. Prime responsibility: NFED supported by external technical specialists.
6.3 Program Management
a) Current situation. The capacity of NFED and FPMU for procurement implementation and
financial management have been assessed and the specific findings and recommendations
have been taken into account. Some have been included as conditions of effectiveness while
others are incorporated into the Program.
b) Improvements. The Program will support NFED's capacity building in the areas of: budget
programming and monitoring, financial management, procurement, and decentralization of
resource management, systems and controls.
c) Key policies and guidelines. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP), rolling two-year Annual
Work Plans, budget and financing requirements.
d) Implementation. Controls and procedures to allow the flow of funds from national level to
regional and district offices are to be detailed during the upcoming financial management
consultancy as part of the new financial management system.
6.4 Partnerships with other providers and NGOs
a) Current situation. NFED collaboration with other providers and NGOs has increased in the
last couple of years but not in a systematic manner. Under the Program, NFED will pursue
actively partnerships with other providers and NGOs to expand Program delivery to hard-to-
reach groups and eventually eventually evolve into a demand-driven organization.
Government agencies such as NFED have a comparative advantage with those activities that
benefit from economies of scale (e.g., materials development and production, training, public
awareness, research and evaluation, and radio). NGOs and Community Based Organizations
(CBO) have a comparative advantage with those aspects of the program that happen at the
community level (e.g., identifying facilitators and learners, supporting regular attendance by
both, and managing the development of a literate environment).
b) Improvements. (a) NFED will publish and annually update a database of organizations that
provide literacy services in Ghana. The information collected by the Literacy Mapping team
provides a database of NGO activities that is sufficiently useful to merit annual updating.
NFED will contract out this task and the information collected will be shared with all other
literacy providers in the country. (b) The Program will support a pilot for the delivery of
basic literacy classes, including English language, through qualified non-government
providers on demand.



30
c) Implementation. NFED units involved in NGO and Women in Development (WID)
activities. NFED intends to establish a National Non-formal Education Coordinating
Committee to facilitate communication and collaboration among literacy providers.
6.5 Income Generating Activities (IGA)
a) Current situation. During the first phase of the Program, NFED contracted with the National
Bureau for Small Scale Industries to administer small loans to a limited number of literacy
classes. Over time, responsibility for administration of these loans shifted to NFED, which
had greater capacity to work below the regional level. Demand for the loans far exceeded
NFED's capacity to offer both technical assistance and loan funds financing to literacy
groups. Repayment experience has been mixed.
b) Improvements. In light of the demand for micro-credit, the second phase will continue to
provide support in this area in the form of technical assistance. Given the high administrative
cost of operating the loan scheme, as well as the burgeoning micro-credit market that has
developed in Ghana over the past five years or so, in Phase II the IDA credit will be used to
purchase the services of one or two non-governmental groups that have experience in
bringing together potential borrowers with micro-credit institutions located in rural areas.
The contractor(s) will be responsible for providing technical assistance to a small number of
selected literacy groups to enable them to formulate business plans and other documentation
required to obtain commercial loans, and to link the groups with rural financial institutions.
They will also provide training for selected NFED staff, to enable them to supervise
additional IGA literacy groups.
c) Key policies and guidelines. Criteria for selection of groups to receive technical assistance
support; contractual arrangements to be worked out; role of NFED staff at headquarters,
regions and districts to manage the program.
Project Component 7 - NFED-US$7.0 million
It concerns the NFED core organization and reflects MTEF projections during Program
implementation in terms of staff emoluments and administrative costs based on the 1999 MTEF
allocations.



31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GHANA: National Functional Literacy Program
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                             US$ million
Basic Literacy                                          15.5          7.2           22.7
English Pilot                                           0.6           0.3            0.9
Literate Environment                                    0.6           0.5            1.1
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research                    0.1           1.1            1.2
Radio Component                                         0.3            1.5           1.8
Management and Institutional Enhancement                1.1           4.4            5.5
NFED                                                    7.0            0.0           7.0
PPF                                                     0.2            0.3           0.5
Total Baseline Cost                                    25.4           15.3          40.7
Physical Contingencies                               0.4            0.6           1.0
Price Contingencies                                  3.2            1.1           4.3
Total Project Costs                29.0           17.0          46.0



32
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Ghana: National Functional Literacy Program
Summary of benefits and costs:
Unit Costs of Phase I
The unit cost per enrolled learner for Phase I was US$24 for the two-year literacy cycle while the
unit cost per successful literate graduate was US$43. As illustrated in Table 1, two-thirds of the
total was for institutional strengthening activities and personnel expenses, 12% went to basic and
post-literacy materials, 5.8% for research and evaluation, 4.3% to support facilitators and
supervisors, and the remaining 11% went for radio, infrastructure, taxes, and contingencies. As
the technology/methodology and mode of delivery utilized for the courses has been fairly
uniform across the country, it is not possible at this time to assess cost differentials of any type.
Compared to five other countries' literacy programs, the unit cost of phase I is the median when
compared with where unit costs range from US$18 to US$98 in constant dollars (US$1996).
Ghana is above the median when using PPP estimates (See Table 2)
Benefits of Phase I.
The main benefit of the phase I was to provide reading, writing and numeracy skills to its
beneficiaries. Seventy percent of those initially enrolled completed the courses. A learning
assessment was administered to the neo-literates who completed the program in 1997. Those who
presented the assessment (80% of those who completed) attained a mean score of 70 out of a
total possible score of 100. The assessment tested neo-literates on the following six areas:
writing, reading comprehension, numeracy, cognitive, attitude, and functionality skills.6 While
70% of the neo-literates had never attended school the remaining 30% had attended, some even
as much as junior high school. Not surprisingly, those who had attended school, performed
slightly better in the assessment. Some targeting of the program towards females was observed as
they represented 60% of the assessed population.
A preliminary assessment using the GSSL3 household data indicates that literate women (using
1-5 years of primary school as a proxy for basic literacy) are more likely to seek pre-natal care
and have their children vaccinated. While quantifying the extent to which the program achieved
this impact is not feasible at this point, it is worth to mention that phase I of the program included
dissemination of information which according to the BIA's findings improved family attitudes
and practices regarding children's education and health, as well as adult health (See BIA 1997).
Unit Costs of Phase II.
The main benefit of phase II will continue to be providing basic literacy skills for illiterate adults.
The projected unit cost per enrolled learner is estimated at US$38 for the 21-month literacy cycle
while the cost per successful learner is estimated at US$53, the latter takes into account a drop
out rate of 20% and successful learning outcomes for at least 90% of graduates (see Table 3).
6 The total possible score on the assessment was 100 which represents the sum of the total possible scores in each of
six sections. In the writing section the total possible score was 12 (actual mean score was 8.1), the reading
comprehension total score was 8 (actual mean score was 5.1); the numeracy section had a total score of 20 (actual
mean score was 14.7), and the cognitive, attitudinal, and functionality sections of the test had each a total possible
score of 20 (mean scores were 14.7, 12.9 and 14.7, respectively). The sum of each of the actual mean scores
amounts to 70. See Annex 4b for a description of the content in each of the sections included in the assessment.



33
Higher costs than in phase I, are associated with the introduction of additional inputs that will
enhance the quality of the Program (e.g. class supervision, materials). To further improve the
effectiveness of phase II, the Program will use results of assessments to adjust its operations.
Periodic impact evaluation studies of both NFED and non-NFED classes are planned to identify
how and where the most effective actions are undertaken, and at what cost. Tracer studies will be
introduced to assess the long-term sustainability of acquired skills, the program's impact on
earnings, attitude and behavior. The program's impact will also be monitored through the
CWIQ7 and monitoring records in health centers.
Benefits of Phase II
The main benefit of phase will continue to be basic literacy skills for illiterate adults. While
literacy has other benefits in addition to monetary benefits (i.e. changed attitudes, behavior, and
practices), the lack of data on literacy graduates makes it difficult to perform a rigorous impact
evaluation of the program. The proposed Program will use tracer studies, the CWIQ, and health
centers' records to estimate the extent to which households with literate parents (literacy program
graduates) obtain better health care, encourage their children to attend school regularly, and
improve household income.
7 The CWIQ will be adjusted to allow respondents to identify adult literacy as their highest educational attainment.
This will permit a quantitative study of literacy graduates.



34
Table 1 - Ghana Adult Literacy and Functional Skills Program (1992-1997)
Total Program Cost by Component - Phase I
ICR Actual (US$ millions)
Local      Foreign       Total        % of
Total
Basic Literacy Materials                             600,000   1,770,000     2,370,000        8.5
Support to facilitators and supervisors              100,000   1,100,000     1,200,000        4.3
Post literacy materials                               60,000    930,000        990,000        3.6
Radio                                                100,000   1,700,000     1,800,000        6.5
Research and evaluation                              620,000    990,000      1,610,000        5.8
Institutional strengthening                        6,350,000  12,180,000    18,530,000       66.6
Infrastructure                                       100,000    870,000        970,000        3.5
Taxes and duties                                     310,000           0       310,000        1.1
PPF refinancing                                            0      52,000        52,000        0.2
Total                                              8,240,000  19,592,000   27,832,000       100.0
Basic Literacy & Supporting Activitiesl
Total cost - # learners   Unit cost in   in %
(in US$)                   US$
Basic Literacy Materials                           2,370,000   1,100,000         $2.15       8.95
Support to facilitators and supervisors            1,200,000                     $1.09       4.53
Radio                                              1,800,000                     $1.64       6.80
Research and evaluation                            1,610,000                     $1.46       6.08
Institutional strengthening                       18,530,000                    $16.85      69.98
Infrastructure                                       970,000                     $0.88       3.66
Total cost per enrolenr   in basic liter          26,480000                     $24.07     D O A41 )000
Total cost per enrolled learner in basic literacy              1,100,000        $24.07
(100% success)
Total cost per successful learner (56% success)2                 616,000        $42.99
I Includes all items except post-literacy materials, taxes & duties, and PPF refinancing.
2 The success rate refers to the percentage of neo-literates who complete the literacy cycle and perform satisfactory in
the learner evaluation. Success 100%  = Drop out rate 10%  and 100%  of literacy graduates performing
satisfactory. Success 56% = Drop out rate 20% and 70% of literacy graduates performing satisfactory.



35
Table 2 - Unit cost of various literacy programs sponsored by the World Bank and ActionAid
Sponsored by the World Bank/IDA1                 Sponsored by Action AWdZ
Ghana    Ghana    Senegal  Bangladesh Banglades                El        Uganda
h       Salvador
2000-      1992-       1996-    1996-2000        1994         1993        1993
2004       1997        2000
Literacy Programs3
In nominal US$
Total cost per successful   $38.23          $26.48    $97.78         $20.40       $18.00       $51.54    $17.19
learner (100% success)4
Total cost per successful   $53.10          $47.29   $174.60         $36.43       $30.60       $87.62    $29.22
learner (most likely scenario)
In US$19965
Total cost per successful   $37.07          $27.59    $97.78         $20.40       $18.37       $53.15    $17.73
leamer (100% success)
Total cost per successful   $51.49          $49.27   $174.60         $36.43       $31.23       $90.35    $30.13
learner (most likely scenario)
In PPP6
Total cost per successful   174.99           130.24    273.96         80.45         72.44       83.05       57.95
learner (100% success)
Total cost per successful   243.05          232.58    489.19         143.66        123.15      141.17       98.47
learner (most likely scenario)
Formal Education7
In US$1996
Total cost per successful $208.00    $208.00   $650.00               $61.24       $61.24           n/a         n/a
learner (100% success)
In PPP
Total cost per successful   981.85          981.85   1,821.14        241.49       241.49           n/a         n/a
learner (100% success)                  I_I
I Data are from the SAR and ICR for the Ghana Functional Skills and Literacy Project (1992), SAR Senegal: Pilot
Female Literacy Project (1996), and SAR Bangladesh: Non Formal Education Project (1996). All costs were
calculated for the purpose of the analysis using the information included in the SAR. We acknowledge that the unit
costs may not be fully comparable because of the year in which the programs are implemented, specific components
may vary significantly by program, and prices have not been adjusted. The success rate for the World Bank/IDA
supported programs is based on a success rate of 70% (See Valerio, 1997).
2 Archer, D. & Cottingham, S. (1996). Regenerated Freirean Literacy Through Empowering Community Techniques.
Action Research Report on Reflect. London: Overseas Development Administration. The success rate for each of the
ActionAid projects are reported as follows: 60% in Bangladesh, 65% in El Salvador, and 69% in Uganda.
3 Note that literacy programs are less expensive because they usually rely on volunteer tutors, classes are held in
existing schools or community infrastructure and no ancillary courses are provided. Therefore, the costs to produce a
literate through literacy classes are far less significant as compared to the formal school system.
4 The success rate refers to the percentage of neo-literates who complete the 18-month literacy cycle and sit for a learner
assessment test. Success 100% = Drop out rate 0% and 100% of literacy graduates sitting for the test. Success 56%
= Drop out rate 20% and 70% of literacy graduates sitting for the test. The most likely scenario is 56% for the
ongoing World bank programs, except for the proposed operation which aims for a 72% success rate.
5 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (1999). Consumer Price Index-all urban consumers, all items. Current series.
6 The Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) conversion factor is based on local currency unit to international $ for 1996 as
indicated in the World Development Indicators, 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank.
7 Although neither the results nor the clients of adult literacy programs are strictly comparable with those of primary
education, the cost per student for four years of primary education is provided for reference.



36
Table 3 - National Functional Literacy Program (2000-2004)
Total Program Cost by Component - Phase II
Appraisal Estimate (US$ millions)
Local      Foreign        Total        in %
Basic Literacy                                   15,568,000   7,172,000    22,740000        49.43
English Pilot                                       554,000     251,000        802,000       1.75
Literate Environment/Materials                      603,000     456,000      1,059,000       2.30
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research                106,000   1,081,000      1,187,000       2.58
Radio Broadcasting                                  311,000   1,511,000      1,822,000       3.96
Management and Institutional Enhancement          1,158,000   4,325,000    5,483,000        11.92
NFED (Salary/other)                               7,000,000                  7,000,000      15.22
PPF                                                 200,000     300,000        500,000       1.09
Project Contingencies
Physical                                          442,000      638,000     1,080,000       2.35
Price                                           3,209,000   1,115,000    4,324,000          9.4
Total                                            29,151,000  16,849,000   46,000,000       100.00
Basic Literacy & Supporting Activities 1
Total cost -  # learners   Unit cost in    in %
(in US$)                    US$
Basic Literacy                                   22,740,000   1,000,000         $22.74      59.48
Radio Broadcasting                                1,822,000                      $1.82       4.77
Monitoring, Evaluation & Research                 1,187,000                      $1.19       3.10
Management and Institutional Enhancement          5,483,000                      $5.48      14.34
NFED (Salaries/other)                             7,000,000                      $7.00      18.31
al t per6 n;l  learner                           38,232,0 0       61000,000     $  3183    100.00
Sensitivity Analysis
Total cost per successful learner in basic literacy            1,000,000        $38.23
(100% success)
Total cost per successful learner in basic literacy              720,000        $53.10
(72% success)
Total cost per successful learner in basic literacy              560,000        $68.27
(56% success)
ITotal basic literacy and supporting activities includes all items except for English pilot, literate environment
materials, PPF refinancing and contingencies.
2 The success rate refers to the percentage of neo-literates who complete the 21-month literacy cycle and sit for a learner
assessment test. Success 100% = Drop out rate 0% and 100% of literacy graduates sit for the test. Success 72% =
Drop out rate 20% and 90% of graduates sit for the test. Success 56% = Drop out rate 20% and 70% of literacy
graduates sit for the test. The likely scenario is 56% for the ongoing World Bank programs, except for the proposed
operation which aims for a 72% success rate.



37
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Ghana: National Functional Literacy Program
Years Ending December 31
Implementation Period
Year 1i Year 2  1 Year 3  t  Year 4  j Year 5
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             7.3        7.3         6.7        6.7        6.8
Recurrent Costs              2.1        2.2         2.3        2.3        2.3
Total Project Costs              9.4        9.5        9.0        9.0         9.1
Total Financing                  9.4        9.5        9.0        9.0         9.1
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     6.7        6.7         6.2        6.2        6.2
Government                   2.6        2.7         2.7        2.7        2.8
Districts/communities        0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1
Total Project Financing      9.4        9.5         9.0        9.0        9.1



38
Annex 6: Procurement, Disbursement, and Fiancial Management Arrangements
Ghana: National Functional Literacy Program
Procurement
Procurement for Project Preparation. The preparation work for the project was carried out by
studies financed by a Japanese Grant, and was contracted mainly by short listing of consultants.
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in
Table A.
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ millions equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                   ICB       NCB    Othera    NIFb    Total
A. Civil Work                                     0.1                         0.10
(0.1)                       (.10)
B. Printed Materials                             8.5       1.0                9.5
(6.0)    (0.7)              (6.7)
C. Class inputs, vehicles, and Equip.  13.1       1.8      0.70      0.5      16.1
(1 1.0)    (1.0)    (0.50)    (0.0)    (12.5)
D. Consultants' Services                                   3.1                3.1
(3.1)              (3.1)
E. Training                                                5.1                5.1
(5.1)              (5.1)
F. Operating Costc                                         4.6                4.6
(4.0)             (4.0)
G. NFED Salaries and administrative                                  7.0      7.0
costs
(0.0)    (0.0)
H. PPF                                                     0.5                0.5
(0.5)              (0.5)
TOTAL    13.1       10.4      15.0      7.5      46.0
_  (11.0)    (7.1)    (13.9)    (0.0)    (32.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amount to be financed by IDA, including contingencies, and
excluding taxes and duties. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
a Other procurement methods include shopping, selection of consultants following Bank/IDA
guidelines, expenditures following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA,
and direct purchasing of goods.
b Not financed by IDA.
C Operating costs include incremental expenses incurred on account of Program implementation,
management, and monitoring, including costs for class supervision, travel costs, and travel
allowances, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.



39
Procedures
Procurement will follow World Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods, works, and services
- Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, revised September 1997 and January
1999 (the Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published by the Bank in January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) - in all respects. Preference for domestically
manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
National Competitive Bidding procedures will include: (a) explicit statement to bidders of the
evaluation and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to lowest
evaluated bidder; and (d) foreign bidders will not be precluded from participation in NCB.
TABLE B: TEIRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT MEETHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
(in US$ equivalent)
Methods
Categories        ICB            NCB              Other         Prior Review by
____E IDA
Civil works              NA                All               NA             +100,000
Printed materials        NA      50,000 or more    Less than 50,000         +100,000
(Aggregate
1,000,000)
Class inputs, vehicles,   100,000    50,000-100,000  Less than 50,000       +100,000
equipment             or more        (aggregate        (Aggregate
1,800,000)          700,000)
Consultants' services    NA               NA                  All       Firms +50,000
& Training                                                             Indiv. +25,000
Single source; all
________                      ____________                 TORs
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Prior review is also required for:
The first two NCB contracts for goods and works each year, regardless of the amount.
Documents
For ICB: World Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD).
For NCB: Standard bidding documents based on Bank's SDB - reviewed and found satisfactory
at at appraisal.
For Consultants: Bank's standard RFP.



40
Other documents include: World Bank standard bid evaluation form and standard general and
specific procurement notices.
Measures to Improve Procurement Capacity at FPMU
Standard procurement processing timetables, including gestation time for completion of
deliveries, agreed at appraisal (see Project Implementation Plan on file).
A procurement plan for key activities during the first two years of project implementation
completed at negotiations and monitored regularly during implementation (see Project
Implementation Plan on file).
Procurement audit by third party (procurement agents or auditors --see draft TOR on file).
Training of FPMU/NFED procurement staff on Bank procurement procedures and documents.
Procedures manual for procurement, acceptable to IDA, completed by 6/30/99.
Qualified Deputy Director for procurement and a procurement officer in place by 7/31/99.
Disbursements
Disbursement conditions for "radio" (expansion to new stations and support to the English pilot): Positive
findings of: (i) impact assessment study of existing radio broadcasting on literacy classes; (ii) feasibility
study for radio expansion; and (iii) feasibility study for radio support to English classes.
Use of Statement of Expenses:
Contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for works and goods
Consultant contracts of less than US$50,000 and US$25,000 for individuals
Training
Supervision costs
Special Account:
The special account will have an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million to cover projected four
months eligible expenditure. An initial advance of US$750,000 will be made to a Bank account
opened in a commercial Bank upon effectiveness of the credit. This advance will increase to the
full, authorized allocation once cumulative disbursement under the credit reach a total ofSDR5
million.
Financial Management
Technical experts have reviewed and assessed the existing financial management capacity,
policies and procedures and systems - including internal controls, accounting, financial reporting,
and auditing systems - of FPMU. Special consideration was given to NFED's capacity. The
review reflected the requirements of the Loan Administration Change Administrative Initiative
(LACI). A timebound action plan has been agreed for the development and implementation of
adequate policies, procedures and systems to ensure full compliance with IDA operational
guidelines as specified in OP/BP 10.02 of August 1997 by credit effectiveness.
A procedural manual for FPMU will be prepared to specify and describe the accounting system
procedures and policies, chart of accounts, organization of the accounting and finance unit,
financial statement format, internal controls, budgeting mechanisms, and audit arrangements.
The manual would also describe the organization arrangements for the project, as well as the
various roles and responsibilities for the procurement and disbursement process.
FPMI will provide quarterly activity reports to the NFED secretariat. The annual financial
statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in Ghana and with the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook



41
(FARAH), which is acceptable to IDA for projects in Ghana. The financial statements will
include at least a statement of sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the
special account, a balance sheet and required notes to the financial statements. The financial
statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Auditing
The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. The auditor will provide an opinion on: (a) the project financial statements; (2) statement
of expenditures; and (c) special accounts.
A management report will be prepared on Internal Controls outlining any recommendations for
improving internal accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
Staffing
FPMU is recruiting a senior accountant and two accounts officers and a principal accountant for
NFED.  Draft TOR for theses position have been developed and agreed with IDA and the
financial staff are expected to be at post by credit effectiveness.
Project Management Reports
The LACI initiative assists projects to put in place sound financial management, procurement and
output monitoring systems. Where appropriate, if these systems are in place, disbursements may
be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the
basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditure.
While the financial management system to be set up by the project will prepare PMR an
assessment has been made that the PMR procedures will not be appropriate initially for this
project because there is a need to ensure that the systems put in place are operating smoothly.
Action Plan for improving FPMU and NFED 's financial management capacity
FPMU: (a) Accounting procedures manual finalized by 6/30/99; (b) Vacant posts filled (one
Senior Accountant, two Accounts Officers) by 7/31/99; NFED: (a) A qualified Principal
Accountant recruited by 6/30/99; (b) Financial management expert recruited to designNFED's
financial management system by 7131/99; (c) expert's work, including computerization plan,
completed by 10/31/99; (d) NFED accounts staff initially trained to operate the new system by
12/31/99; (e) Detailed steps for implementing reporting requirements (see the Credit Agreement)
by 12/31/99; (f) Implementation, testing and operationalization of system by 6/30/01.



42
Disbursement categories and the percentages financed are shown in Table C below.
TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category                   Amounts in US$  Financing Percentage
millions
1. Civilworks                                0.1        80%
2. Goods
A. Printed Materials                      6.7        100% foreign and 80% local expenditures
B. Class inputs, vehicles, & equipment   11.4        100% foreign and 80% local expenditures
3. Consultants' services and Training        5.7        100%
4. Radioa
A. Consultants' Service/Training          0.5         100%
B. Equipment/vehicles/consumables         0.8         100% foreign and 80% local expenditures
5. Operating costsb                          4.0        80%
6. Refinancing PPF                           0.5
7. Unallocated                               2.3
Total Financed by IDA                    32.0
a Costs include expansion of radio to new stations and support to the English Pilot; subject to
disbursement conditions.
b Operating costs include incremental expenses incurred on account of Program implementation,
management, and monitoring, including costs for class supervision, travel costs, and travel
allowances, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.



43
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Ghana: National Functional Literacy Program
Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                              11
First Bank mission (identification)               n/a                   n/a
Appraisal/negotiations mission departure       02/19/1999           04/18/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/01/1999
Prepared by: Non-formal Education Division/Ministry of Education.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant - National Functional Literacy Program, US$450,000; PPF
- National Functional Literacy Program, US$500,000; World Bank administrative cost,
US$291,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Irene Xenakis                Sr. Implementation Specialist/Task Team Leader
Rosemary Bellew             Ghana Education Team Leader
Janet Leno                  Sr. Education Specialist
Bernardo Kugler             Sr. Human Resources Economist
John Elder                   Sociologist (Consultant)
Rebekah Kirubaidoss         Program Assistant
Kofi Awanyo                 Procurement Specialist
Tsri Apronti                 Projects Officer
Fred Yankey                 Financial Analyst
John Comings                Adult Literacy Specialist (Consultant)
Alexandria Valerio          Education Specialist (Consultant)
Hovsep      Melkonian/David  Disbursement Officers
Webber
Said Al-Habsy               Lawyer
Jaime Biderman              Lead Specialist
V.S. Krishnakumar           Procurement Specialist
Francesco Sarno             Principal Procurement Specialist
Gerhard Tschannerl          Quality-at-entry
Advisors/Quality Assurance/Peer reviewers
Adriaan Verspoor            Education Lead Specialist/Africa Region
Audrey Aarons               Peer Reviewer/Basic Literacy
Helen Abadzi                Peer Reviewer/Basic Literacy
John Oxenham                Peer Reviewer/Program Design
Harry Patrinos              Peer Reviewer/Economic Analysis



44
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Ghana: National Functional Literacy Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan, March 1999.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank (1998). Implementation Completion Report: Literacy and Functional
Skills Project (Credit 2349-GH).
Project Concept Document Report, July 30. 1998.
Project Concept Document Minutes, July 31, 1998.
Economic analysis files, May 17, 1999.
Ghana Education Finance Study, 1998.
C. Other
Blunch, N. & Verner, D. (1998). "Determinants of Income and Literacy in
Ghana", background document prepared for AFTH3.
Burchfield, S. et al. (1998). "Evaluation of the Pilot Project in English for New
Literates." Draft report.
Peter, G.W., (1998). "Mapping of Literacy Activities by Other providers in
Ghana." Final report.
Boeren, A. et al. (1999). "Improvements in Supervision and MER Practices."
Final report.
Laflin, M. et al. (1998). "Study of the Use of Radio to Support Functional
Literacy in the Volta and Northern Regions of Ghana."
Bhola, H.S. (1998). "Quality of Basic Literacy with Emphasis on Teaching
Methods, Facilitator Training and Materials."
Epskamp, K. et al. (1998). "Create a Cost-effective Literate Environment for
Neo-literates." Final report.
E.W. & Associates (1999). "Evaluation of the Financial System's Sustainability
of the Literacy and Functional Skills Project." Draft report.
Korboe, D. (1997). Beneficiary Impact Assessment, NFED/MOE. Accra, Ghana.
Kukler, R. (1998). "Institutional Management and Capacity Development for
Phase II." Final report.
Laryea-Adjei, G., et al. (1998). "Evaluation of the Income Generation Scheme of
the Literacy and Functional Skills Project." Draft report.
Valerio, A. (1997). "Unit Costs of Adult Literacy Programs with a Focus on
Ghana," background document prepared for AFTH3.
E.W. & Associates (1999). "Review and Update of Non-Formal Education
Policy in Ghana."
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana
Status of Bank Group Operation in Ghana
Operations Portfolio
As of 10-May-99
Difference Between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                      disbursements a/
Fiscal
Project ID      Yea                   Borrower                   Purpose
EBRD          IDA          Cancellations     Undisbursed          Orig  Frn Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 75
Active Projects
GH-PE-50615        1999    GOVT OF GHANA                          PUB.SECTOR MNGT.PROG                            0.00         14.30          0.00                 14.30          0.00          0.00
GH-PE-970          1999    GOVT OF GHANA                          TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                            0.00         50.50          0.00                 48.62           .94          0.00
GH-PE-946          1998    GOVT OF GHANA                          NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                              0.00          9.30          0.00                  9.36          3.37          0.00
GH-PE-949          1998    GOVT OF GHANA                          HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                             0.00         35.00          0.00                 30.70          5.98          0.00
GH-PE-41150        1997    GOVT OF GHANA                          VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU                            0.00         30.00          0.00                 23.74         -2.05          0.00
GH-PE-45588        1997    GOVT OF GHANA                          PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                             0.00         20.90          0.00                 16.69         11.22          0.00
GH-PE-42516        1996    GOVT OF GHANA                          PUBLIC ENTERPRISE/PR                            0.00         26.45          0.00                 18.99          4.87          0.00
GH-PE-943          1996    GOVTOFGHANA                            NON-BANKFININSAST                               0.00         23.90          0.00                 18.19         14.40          0.00
GH-PE-957          1996    GOVT OF GHANA                          HWY SECT INV.PROG                               0.00        100.00          0.00                 65.05          9.44          0.00
GH-PE-973          1996    GOVT OF GHANA                          URBAN ENV.SANITATION                            0.00         71.00          0.00                 51.68         33.76          0.00
GH-PE-975          1996    GOVT OF GHANA                          BASIC EDUCATION                                 0.00         50.00          0.00                 43.08         21.28          0.00
GH-PE-926          1995    GOVT OF GHANA                          THERMAL (P-VII)                                 0.00        175.60          0.00                 53.43         50.23         17.55
GH-PE-948          1995    GOVTOFGHANA                            EDUC/VOC.TRNG                                   0.00          9.60          0.00                  5.95          4.17          0.00
GH-PE-960          1995    GOVT OF GHANA                          PRIV SECTOR DEV                                 0.00         13.00          0.00                  8.98          7.60          0.00                     4
GH-PE-962          1995    GOVT OF GHANA                          FISHERIES                                       0.00          9.00          0.00                  4.86          2.55          0.00
GH-PE-966          1995    GOVT OF GHANA                          MINING SEC.DEV & ENV                            0.00         12.30          0.00                  6.39          4.29          0.00
GH-PE-924          1994    GOVT OF GHANA                          COMMllNITY WATER & SA                           0.00         21.96          0.00                  8.85          7.09          0.00
GH-PE-936          1994    GOVT OF GHANA                          LOCAL GOVT DEV.                                 0.00         38.50          0.00                 15.73          7.09          0.00
GH-PE-961          1994    GOVT OF GHANA                          AGRIC SECTOR DIVEST                             0.00         21.50          0.00                  5.49          2.73         -1.47
GH-PE-930          1993    GOVT OF GHANA                          LIVESTOCK                                       0.00         22.45            .38                 2.74          3.66          3.27
GH-PE-953          1993    GOVT OF GHANA                          NATL ELECTRlFICATIO                             0.00         80.00          0.00                 10.87         13.67          6.43
GH-PE-956          1993    GOVT OF GHANA                          URBAN TRANSPORT                                 0.00         76.20          0.00                 10.93         10.79         -1.48
GH-PE-931          1992    GOVTOFGHANA                            AGRIC EXTENSION                                 0.00         30.40          0.00                  6.84          6.40          6.40
GH-PE-918          1991    GOVTOFGHANA                            AGRICDIVERS(TREEC                               0.00          16.50          1.85                 5.35          6.40          6.40
GH-PE-910          1990    GOVTOFGHANA                            URBAN l(SEC CITIES)                              0.00        70.00           0.00                 2.00         -4.30          0.00
Total                                                                                                             0.00       1,028.36         2.23                488.81        225.58         37.10
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                         508.76               2,639.85               3,148.61
of which has been repaid:                              0.00                 247.61                 247.61
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        1,026.13              2,281.31                3,307.44
Amount sold                                               0.00                    .38                    .38
Of which repaid                                         0.00                     .38                   .38
Total Undisbursed                                       488.81                  16.07                 504.88
a.  Intended disbursernents to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



Ghana
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1988/89/91/93         Bogosu                 6.48    1.72    5.35   13.44    6.48    1.72    5.35   13.44
1989/91/93            Cont Acceptances       0.00     .88    0.00    0.00    0.00     .88    0.00    0.00
1989/92               Wahome Steel            .87    .44    0.00    0.00      .87    .44    0.00    0.00
1990                  AEF Alugan              .05    0.00    0.00    0.00     .05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96            GAGL                   4.50    2.55    8.11    0.00    4.50    2.55    8.11    0.00
1991                  AEF Packrite            .06    0.00    0.00    0.00     .06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  GHANAL                 0.00     .44    0.00    0.00    0.00    .44    0.00    0.00
1991/92               Hotel Inv. Ghana       1.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  AEF BMK                 .92    0.00    0.00    0.00     .92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  AEF CFL                 .28    0.00    0.00    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93               Ghana Leasing          2.01     .75    0.00    0.00    2.01     .75    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Afariwaa            .18    0.00    0.00    0.00     .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF GHUMCO              .12    0.00    0.00    0.00     .12    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96               ECOBANK                4.85    0.00    0.00    0.00     .75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Shangri-la         1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  GHACEM                  .94    0.00    0.00    0.00     .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Dupaul Wood         .50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Pako Bay           0.00    .05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Tacks Farms         .37    0.00    0.00    0.00     .37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF PTS                0.00    0.00     .31    0.00    0.00    0.00    .31    0.00
1998                  AEF NCS                0.00    0.00     .67    0.00    0.00    0.00    .67    0.00
1998                  AEF Plantation          .50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  25.56    6.83   14.44   13.44   21.32    6.78   14.44   13.44
Approvals Pending Commitnent
Loan   Equiy    Quasi  Partic
1995                  AEF GHANA PACK          .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          .36    0.00    0.00    0.00



47                                                       Annex  10
Ghana at a glance                                                             9/29/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Ghan#    Africa  Income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     18.0       614     2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   370      500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     8.7       309      722                       T
Average annual qrowth, 1991-97
Population f%)                                       2.7       2.7      2.1      G                              G
Labor force ff)                                      2.7       2.6       2.3     GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                      enrollment
Povrty (% of population below national poverty line)  31
Urban population f% of total population)              37        32       2a
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     S9        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             69        90        78
Child malnutritiron (% of children under 5)          27         ..       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water f of population)                56        44        71
Illiteracy (% ofpopulal/on age 15+)                   36       43        47
Gross primary enrollment f% ofschool-age population)  76       75        91                  Ghana
Male                                               83        82       100                  Low-income group
Female                                             70        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos*
GDP (USS billions)                          2.8      5.7       6.3       6.8
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                8.9      9.4      18.7      16.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          15.7    16.6       27.2      24.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  8.S      5.8       8.3       7.3
Gross national savngsGDOP                   7.7      5.1      10.4       9.6
Current account balancetGDP                 -3.8    -3.6      -8.3      3-4A     Domestc  l '
Interest payments/GDP                       0.7      0.8       1.9       1.9                                Investment
Total debt/GDP                             25.7    47.9       96.8      93.9     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                  5.8    28.S       27.1      33.7
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      58.5      65.3
Presentvalueof debVexports                   ..       ..    211.2    218.1
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annua/ growth)
GDP                                0.0      4.4      5.2       3.0       6.0                  Ghana
GNP per capita                    -2.8      1.6      2.4       0.4       3.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -7.4     7.5    19.8       -4.0       6.2    .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP) 4
Agriculture                                50.6    47.8       44.4      47.4    40
Industry                                   19.2    17.2       16.6      16.6    20
Manufacturing                             13.1    11.1       9.4       9.5      o
Services                                   30.2    35.1       38.9      36,0    -2-     9          94   95   96   97
Private consumption                        79.2    83.1       79.4      82.3    -40
General government consumption             12.2    11.1       12.3      10.4                    GDI   -GDP
Imports of goods and services              16.0    20.1       37.6      33.5
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 1.0      2.4       4.0       2.2    20
Industry                                   -5.8      4.6       4.2       4.8
Manufacturing                             -B.1     2.9        3.0      4.0    10
Services                                    1.5      6.6       6.5       3.2
Private consumption                        -0.1      3.6       5.0       4.6     o
General govemment consumption               2.2      5.6       3.4      -5.5           02 9
Gross domestic investment                  -4.7      6.1      -1.4      17.7   -10
Imports of goods and services              -8.8      5.2      12.1      -0.7                Expons   -0Imports
Gross national product                      -0.1     4.5       5.1       3.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
t The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. I data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



48
Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Infation (%)
Domestic pricesInaIn %
(% change)                                                                         s0
Consumer prices                                ..    24.6       45.6      27.9    40
Implicit GDP deflator                        28.1     41.7      33.1      29.6
Govemment finance                                                                  2   _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                ..    13.6       19.2      17.6             92   93   94  9s   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..      1.7       1.3       11              -     GDP deflator    t9  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -3.3      -10.4      -8.6                   __
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ mil/ions)                                                                     Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ,      749      1,571     1,511     2,500T
Cocoa                                         ..    503        552       464
Timber                                        ..      44       147       165      2,000-
Manufactures                                  ..      ..        ..        ..    1,500 -*
Total imports (cif)                                   805      2,119     1,964     JC0
Food                                         ..       44        64        64                     m
Fuel and energy                              ..    125         261       278       909
Capital goods                                ..      129       489       396        0
91  92  93  94  99  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      99         91        92            1
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      76        102        96   |            Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)             ,        ,      130         90        95    __
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mil/ions)                              1976     1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                891      797      1,728     1,676      0
Imports of goods and services                951      968      2,388     2,265
Resource balance                             -59     -171       -661      -589
Net income                                   -42     -106       -141      -142          11
Net current transfers                         -4       73        276       296
Current account balance                     -105      -204      -525      -435    .1 
Financing items (net)                         46      147        513      461
Changes in net reserves                       59       57         13       -25       -15
Memo:                                                                             I
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       113      624        606       466
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              2.4     89.3   1,637.0   2,053.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS inillions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         711    2,743      6,141     6,339
IBRD                                        38      134         44        30                       A A 30
IDA                                         56      446      2,530     2,617               G 6
Total debt service                            52      228        476       578          F 422
IBRD                                         5       18         13        15
IDA                                          0        5         28        30                                     B: 2,617
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             31      118        206       216      E: 1,344
Official creditors                          19      217       419        350
Private creditors                           -8       77        -61       -76
Foreign direct investment                  -18        4         20        36
Portfolio equity                             0        0        100        46              D 60        c: 654
World Bank program
Commitments                                 25       99        275        51
Disbursements                               14      169        244       237     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                         2       10         20        23        - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments             ~~      ~~~       ~~2 10  20  23    C - IMF                       G - Short-termn
Netfiows                                    11      159       224        214     __o
Interest payments                            3       13         21        23
Net transfers                                8      146        203       192
World Bank                                                                                                          9/29/98



IBRD 23606
3-                       2-                                                  5' ct                                                 2-
BURKINA FASO                                     Ruin
w Hamite~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8~h49 Pulimo/,.o)ulm kon
H-0HmI                                                    A0 TnIi
g j    o zie  X~ Chuchul,Eu¶Pb <  ,..  
Non              tIPPE~~~~~~~~R                  0 Nok PIdurr
$~~~~~~~                                        Gm'    kpnEr                           G HANA
*         ~~~~~UPPERGH N
WEST                                Loo
F  h  -        > Y~~~ola   )_OF pNasa no  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
5's                     BA§  ulenoso                             Pigu     K      ooo  f      (                                               15
WA        oo °orogo                                                \'                            PRIMARY ROADS
,  '   WuPA   d     -  -  SECONDARY ROADS
A,                                                                   0a '  aRTHERN   '   4 4 )   -    TERTIARY ROADS
oDbe.o a                                         ,-*          -i-   RAILWAYS
{Iy       /     '~%   / \ a /en  Z;bzugu ®i   REGION HEADQUARTERS
f;!;OC-arthe . 0<    . Busunu  1  - '   X    >|OChambuIgu    j   8 i >'~ ° J              NATIONAL CAPITAL
9           <        OHale   \      E          Yawr4scO,))        )             r    e  TS       ;        WW   REGION BOUNDARIES             9
\))fS  S. \ \     J bml; !INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, co/ors,
COTE                                                  f                                                  t > denominations and any
other informotion shown
\Ke\  on this ma p do not
D                                   IsTE   imoply, on the port of
B,mbao0,    The World Bank Group,
0Chindif,                 any judgment on the legal
* status of any territory,
.1/                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or any endorsement
bw   ./mpo   .  rbK2n-                              D-a >4arz3  G <j   gA  OCcmbei $ fi tor acceptance of such
0          ~~~~boundaries.                  5
/                  i ~~~BRC)NG-AHIF                                  i@   
!6 S U     NYANI i               5 ~ t j ° 150 c 30c 5s OcusES
\'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 <                                                           ENI NIOERIVSLT
6 E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iClti r  OFO - $UfIE                                       O<,zi *
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
; ff L AS -                                                                                          TOGO          EBRUARY 199
:   ''k'.n''     "    ,'    '0" .'''-  -''      ,"..'       ,    ,     '"     
B'tb.                  ,     ,,     ,       ..    ,   :              .    sW                         GbONS 
. ; 3 ; - t - ' 1 2 - . - 1 . - . . "~~~N
SeW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR Ob1995d~ rFOA



