Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19000GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION
TO THE WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR
THE SECOND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 10, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
1 NIS= US$ 0.25
US$ 1 =4.0NIS
FISCAL YEAR
December to January
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIA                  =       Beneficiary Impact Assessment
BOQ                  =       Bill of Quantities
CAS                  =       Country Assistance Strategy
CDP                  =       Community Development Project
CSC                  =       Camp Service Committees
CQ                   =      Consultant Qualification Based
DORA                 =      Department of Refugee Affairs
EGP                  =      Employment Generation Program
EIB                  =      European Investment Bank
ICB                  =      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  =      International Development Association
MIDP                 =      Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MIS                  =      Management Information System
MOLG                 =      Ministry of Local Government
NCB                  =      National Competitive Bidding
O&M                  =      Operation and Maintenance
PECDAR               =      Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PMO                  =      Project Management Office at PECDAR
QBS                  =      Quality Based Selection
QCBS                 =      Quality and Cost Based Selection
SC                   =      Steering Committee
SIL                  =      Specific Investment Loan
SOE                  =      Statement of Expenditures
SS                   =      Single Source Selection
TOR                  =      Terms of Reference
UNRWA                       United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WBG                  =      West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:    Kemal Dervi,
Country Manager/Director:   Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader:    Kingsley 0. Robotham
Task Team Leader:    Kanthan Shankar



WEST BANK AND GAZA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
Be Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         5
3. Benefits and target population                                                        5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                              8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                             9
2. Financial                                                                            10
3. Technical                                                                            10.
4. Institutional                                                                        11
5. Social                                                                               13
6. Environmental assessment                                                             14
7. Participatory approach                                                               15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      15
2. Critical risks                                                                       16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      16
,jI 



G. Main Loan condition
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            17
2. Other                                                                                17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          17
Annexes
Annex : Project Design Summary                                                            18
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     20
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          24
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            25
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        28
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      33
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        34
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits        -                                          35
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             37
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan                                                   39
Annex 12: Project Implementation Agreement                                                45
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 27791
Hi -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
Second Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
West Bank and Gaza Program
Date: March 10, 1999                               Team Leader: Kingsley 0. Robotham
Country Manager/Director: Joseph P. Saba           Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: 58684                                  Sector(s): SE - Employment, SY - Other Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
G Loan          0 Credit        O Grant          OI Guarantee    M Other (Specify)
Trust Fund Credit out of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
For Loans/Credits/Others:
ERROR: Server not responding 8.0
Proposed Terms: a To be defined   LI Multicurrency  1 Single currency
OI Standard Variable El Fixed        O LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             10
Years to maturity:                40
Commitment fee:                   0.5%
Service charge                    0.75%
Financing Plan:       To be defined
Source                               Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                                         1.5            0.0            1.5
IBRD                                                              0.0             0.0            0.0
IDA                                                               7.5             0.5            8.0
Cofinanciers                                                      5.0             0.5            5.5
Total:                                                            14.0            1.0           15.0
Borrower: The Palestinian Liberation Organisation (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
represented by the Ministry of Finance
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Local Government (MOLG)
Implementing agency(ies):
MOLG and PECDAR
Address: P.O. Box 98, Jericho
Contact Person: Dr. Sa'eb Erekat, Minister
Tel: 972 2 2322619                  `ax: 972 2 232124(0               Email:



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY           1999        2000        2001        2002
Annual      1.5          3.0          2.5        1.0
Cumulative     1.5          4.5          7.0         8.0
Project implementation period: April 1999 to April 2002
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/99  Expected closing date:  10/31/2002
OCS PAD Forrn October 9, 1998
-2-



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Community Development Project (CDP) I became effective in May of 1997. To-date it has completed
over 160 microprojects and disbursed over 90% of the funds. The project has been successful in mobilising
community contributions of nearly 15%, and as the Beneficiary Impact Assessment has shown, a sense of
community ownership and participation. The project has also been able to attract over $12 million in
cofmancing.
The follow-up project, CDP II, will build on the success of CDP I. While continuing to improve
infrastructure services, its strategy will now be refined to target the poor and marginalized communities in
West Bank and Gaza (WBG). While the overall sector objective is poverty alleviation and human resource
development, the objective under CDP II would be pursued by identifying poor areas and targeting them
with labour-intensive microprojects which, in addition to preserving capital assets, will also increase
temporary jobs for labourers and promote opportunities for local contractors and suppliers. It is expected
that a significant proportion of activities under CDP II will be in refugee camps. The projects in camps will
be implemented without any prejudice to the refugee's inalienable rights.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
- Indicators of improved access of poor communities within WBG to services such as roads, water supply
and sanitation, clinics, schools, and;
- Indicators of beneficiary satisfaction with services provided.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number:                          Date of latest CAS discussion:
The project objective is consistent with and supports the Bank Group strategy outlined in "Replenishing the
Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza", April 1998, which stresses the need for sustained growth and
increased job opportunities through an equitable development process. Poverty alleviation through the
restoration and further development of economic and social infrastructure in poor communities is a critical
component of this strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Bank's strategy compliments the Palestinian Authority's (PA) strategy and focuses on infrastructure
improvements and private sector development. The main components of the PA strategy as detailed in the
"Palestinian Development Plan for 1999-2003 ", presented at the Consultative Group meeting of February
1999, identify investment in physical infrastructure and the social sector as a priority. Infrastructure
rehabilitation and restoration in major urban centres are being addressed by on-going Bank and
donor-funded operations. The main constraints identified by the Bank with regards to infrastructure
improvements in poor areas of West Bank and Gaza continue to be (a) availability and predictability of
investment and maintenance funding; (b) decreasing levels of donor assistance, including limited resources
of UN agencies operating in refugee camps, and (c) lack of capacity in Local Government Units (LGUs)
for investment planning, financing and monitoring.
-3-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would address the first constraint by making funds available for rehabilitation and
restoration and by requiring that each microproject include a simplified operation and maintenance plan and
budget to aid communities in planning preventive maintenance and other future costs. The project
addresses the second constraint by making funding available for projects in camps, which generally tend to
be worse off economically than other areas within WBG. These projects in camps will complement, rather
than substitute the activities undertaken by United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). The
project addresses the third constraint by providing technical assistance and training to MOLG and LGUs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
1. Implementation of at least 125  SY - Other Social   13.5      90.0       7.0       87.5
infrastructure microprojects, costing  Sector
not more than US$150,000 each,
identified and implemented by LGUs
with a minimum of 25% labour
content, using local contractors,
suppliers and labourers. Such works
may include improvements in water
supply, sanitation, solid waste
management, and rehabilitation of
local clinics, primary schools and
feeder roads.
2. Technical assistance to LGUs to  RR - Human          0.6       4.0        0.4       5.0
ensure good quality microproject  Resources
proposals, responsiveness to
competitive bidding, and an increased
capacity to plan, manage and
implement infrastructure investment,
operations and maintenance. Technical
assistance also to implementing agency
staff, such as MOLG to manage and
co-ordinate projects. Training for small
local contractors to participate in
competitive bidding procedures and
provide supporting documentation for
payment, would also be delivered
through subcontracting arrangements.
-4-



3. Supplemental operating costs,   BB - Public          0.9        6.0       0.6       7.5
vehicles, communications and other  Sector
equipment, and impact studies needed   Management
by implementing agencies (MOLG,
PECDAR and other relevant sector
ministries) for project execution and
management.
Total Project Costs                    15.0      100.0       8.0      100.0
Total Financing Required                     15.0      100.0       8.0     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
1. Co-operation and commitment from sector ministries will be sought to sustain projects after they have
been implemented. The Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) conducted under CDP I, revealed that in a
few cases clinics under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health; were inadequately staffed and resulted
in under-utilisation of facilities.
2. MOLG gradually acquiring skills to manage projects within the Ministry.
3. Co-ordination on project implementation will be sought between Ministry of Local Government
(MOLG), PECDAR, the Department of Refugee Affairs (DORA).
4. Further decentralisation by MOLG and PECDAR of portions of project implementation (such as
procurement and supervision) to the Local Government Units such as village committees, camp service
committees, and municipalities.
3. Benefits and target population:
People in at least 100 poor and marginalized communities would benefit from the resulting improvements
in the availability, regularity or quality of basic services and from greater economic activity due to demand
for local labour, materials, contractors and suppliers. The people, particularly the poor, would benefit
through social infrastructure improvements such as schools, clinics, water supply and sanitation which are
expected to have a high social return. Women and children are also expected to benefit through targeted
interventions such as women training centres and kindergartens. Furthermore, the families of approximately
7,000 labourers would benefit directly through wages (estimated length of employment is 26 equivalent
workdays).
-5-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing agencies: The key implementing agencies involved in the project are MOLG, PECDAR,
DORA and the LGUs. MOLG will have overall responsibility for implementation and will be strongly
supported by PECDAR. Communities would identifyn microprojects, contribute to their costs, and be
involved in implementation through their LGUs, namely municipalities, village committees and camp
service committees. Communities would put forward microproject proposals in accordance with the
revised Operations Manual being prepared by MOLG and PECDAR (with inputs from co-ordinating
agencies DORA, UNRWA, LGUs/CSCs). The Operations Manual details the organisational and
procedural aspects for submission of proposals, selection, implementation and monitoring of microprojects.
MOLG would prioritise microproject proposals from the LGUs according to overall development strategy
and requirements stipulated in the Operations Manual. Similarly, DORA would receive and prioritise
proposals from the camps in close co-ordination with UNRWA. The selected proposals from the camps
would then be forwarded by DORA to MOLG. The projects would undergo a technical and social
appraisal conducted jointly by MOLG and PECDAR. The appraised list would be forwarded for approval
to the "Steering Committee" (SC) comprised of representatives of MOLG, PECDAR, DORA. The SC will
be chaired by the MOLG. Once cleared through the SC, the list of projects would be submitted to
PECDAR for implementation. A signed implementation agreement, including a responsibility matrix among
all concerned parties, will anchor the above arrangements.
Project co-ordination: The MOLG, in co-operation with PECDAR will be responsible for overall project
management. MOLG would be in charge of co-ordinating with government ministries to ensure that the
proposed microprojects are in compliance with the Ministry's planning, norms and standards, operation
budgets, and to avoid duplication of funding. MOLG will also co-ordinate with DORA and the local camp
service committees with regard to projects within refugee camps.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:  A joint MOLG/PECDAR special account
will be established under CDP II, with joint signatory responsibilities held by heads of MOLG and
PECDAR. Maintenance of the special account, payment of contractors, accounting, auditing and reporting
would be the under the responsibility of PECDAR. Under CDP 11, PECDAR and MOLG would maintain
the special account, make requests for replenishment, conduct internal audits, and make arrangements for
annual external audits by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Technical reviews would be undertaken
once a year by external reviewers acceptable to IDA
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Regular comprehensive monitoring and evaluation have been
important elements in the success of CDP I. These arrangements would be continued and strengthened
under CDP I. A comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system comprising microproject supervision,
the Management Informnation Systemn (MIS), regular reports, World Bank supervision, and special impact
studies would be used for the CDP II to serve as feedback mechanisms for project management and to
monitor key indicators of performance, progress and impact. Microproject supervision would be done by
PECDAR/MOLG engineers, who would report regularly on the progress of individual investments. The
MIS would enable PECDAR to monitor key indicators of performance, progress and impact of
microprojects, such as labour content, time to pay contractors, and number of beneficiaries. The World
Bank would contribute to monitoring and feedback through its supervision missions, and through Bank
staff located in the Resident Mission. The project would also require the implementing agency to
subcontract local researchers to undertake an annual beneficiary impact assessment (BIA) of a sample of
microprojects. The lessons learned would be used to improve project management and operating
procedures.
-6-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative 1: Under CDP II, continue targeting small municipalities and villages and exclude refugee
camps.
Reasons for Rejection: To date UNRWA has had the mandate to work in refugee camps in WBG, and the
Bank has not supported any substantial work within the camps. More recently, the PA has been keen to
provide support to the camps and has requested the Bank's assistance. Moreover, the BIA conducted on
CDP I recommended increased focus on the poorest communities - who for the most part are located in
refugee camps. Since the issue of the PA working in the camps is politically sensitive, alternative I was
considered. However, this was rejected due to the deep needs within camps and demonstrated co-operation
among the PA, UNRWA and other stakeholders that assistance can be provided without prejudice to the
alienable rights of the refugees. Furthermore, in order to avoid controversy and provide flexibility to
address other pockets of poverty, CDP II will be designed to target the poor and marginalized communities
in all of WBG. As most of the refugee camps are generally worse off than other areas within WBG, it is
quite likely that many but not all projects will be implemented in refugee camps.
Alternative 2: Transfer Implementation to Ministry of Local Government
Reasons for Rejection: The Bank's strategy for the future is to build capacity within the sector ministries so
that they can administer projects in their relevant sectors. Accordingly, an option considered was to
implement CDP II through MOLG. However, PECDAR has successfully demonstrated the capacity to
implement similar projects under the Employment Generation Program (EGP) and CDP I. The recent BIA
conducted on CDP I revealed that the beneficiaries were satisfied with PECDAR's ability to implement the
program efficiently. Furthermore, as CDP II, for the most part, is a continuation of CDP I, relocating
implementation to a new agency could prove counter-productive. Hence, while MOLG, as the agency
responsible for the sector, will now become the main counterpart to the Bank, the implementation would be
delegated to PECDAR as per a memorandum of understanding signed between MOLG and PECDAR.
MOLG, under CDP II, will be responsible for overall strategy formulation and project selection, and its
staff will benefit through on-the-job training during joint activities with PECDAR. This strategy should
ensure that while decision making skills and management capacity steadily increase within MOLG, the
project will benefit from proven implementing experience of PECDAR.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Developrment
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Infrastructure: Poor condition of urban Emergency Rehabilitation    S             S
infrastructure in both West Bank and   Project, May 1994 (US$30m)
Gaza
Education and Health             S             S
Rehabilitation Project, June
1995 (US$20m)
-7-



Second Emergency                 S            S
Rehabilitation Project, April
1996 (US$20m)
Municipal Infrastructure         S            S
Development Project, June
1996 (US$40m)
Water and Sanitation Services    S            S
Project, June 1996 (US$25m)
Community Development            S            S
Project I, May 1997 (US$1Om)
Proposed Southern Area Water
and Sanitation Improvement
Project
Proposed Municipal
Infrastructure Development
Project II
Other development agencies
Infrastructure Development: Urban and - EU Municipal Support
Rural                             Program, January 1996 to
December 1997 (ECU 25
million).
- UNDP - Local Rural
Development Fund, January
1997 (US$27m over four years)
Socio-economic development:      - Holst Fund - Emergency
Employment Generation
Program April 1996 (US $48
million)
- Municipal Development
Program in middle area refugee
camps of Gaza - Danish
Government - US $7 million
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons emerging from the EGP, CDP I and other similar programs in MNA (Egypt and Yemen)
will be reflected in the design of the proposed CDP II and include the following: (a) refinement of targeting
strategy to benefit poor and marginalized communities; (b) encouragement of transparent decision making
in LGUs and project implementation units which has been critical for public support of programs; (c)
promotion of project activities to ensure transparency and improve the quality of project selection; and (d)
training and technical assistance within implementing agencies, especially in social assessment/ appraisal
and operation and maintenance.
Among the improvements to be included in the proposed project design are: (a) improved targeting
strategy through the development and use of a poverty map for West Bank and Gaza; (b) greater
information sharing and stakeholder participation in order to strengthen local ownership and improve
transparency; and (c) provision of technical assistance through local consulting firms to the implementing
-8-



agencies and LGUs. In addition, the project would be designed to ensure: (a) clarity of roles and
responsibilities among PECDAR, UNRWA, Ministries and LGUs; and (b) project selection criteria to
include commitment to operation and maintenance.
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership:
The Palestinian Authority has formally sought support from the World Bank to finance the
follow-up project to the CDP I. It has further requested the Bank's assistance to design the project in a way
that it also support refugee camps in the WBG. The Palestinian Authority has also canvassed other donors
in this regard and there is already a firm commitment from OPEC fund and European Investment Bank
(EIB) to cofinance CDP II. MOLG, PECDAR and DORA have established task teams to prepare the
project. The task team has already submitted the draft Project Implementation Plan. The borrower is also
committed to sharing project costs through requirement for community cash/kind contributions. DORA has
also been actively involved in generating ownership within the PA with regard to assistance in refugee
camps. Furthermore, UNRWA has also nominated a co-ordinator to assist the task team in the
identification of projects within the camps.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The success of the Bank-financed CDP I, as reflected by the findings of the BIA and the rapid
implementation of the program, has proved that the Bank's involvement has been highly beneficial to small
villages and municipalities. Donor financing for these programs continues to be limited, and hence, the
Bank's assistance is greatly valued by the borrower. Furthermore, within refugee camps, budget constraints
restrict the number of projects which can be financed by UNRWA. Hence the Bank's proposed
involvement, designed to supplement rather than to substitute for UNRWA's activities, is welcomed by all
concerned parties. The Bank has also been able to mobilise donor interest in the projects. Both OPEC
Fund and the EIB are already interested in cofinancing CDP II. Additionally, the Bank continues to bring
its global experience in assisting in the design of social funds, which provides an effective approach in
achieving the objectives held by the borrower for the project. The Bank also maintains an effective link
with the borrower for policy-guidance and institutional development in the infrastructure sector through its
dialogue and ongoing investment lending program, of which the proposed project is a part.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Econoniic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
Given the nature and size of the projects, and given that CDP II would be demand driven, no
detailed economic analysis can be undertaken ex ante. However, basic economic indicators such as
costs/job created or costs /beneficiary would be estimated during appraisal of individual microprojects, as
stipulated in the Operations Manual. A simple cost-effectiveness model has already been developed under
CDP I and has been used by PECDAR in project selection. Details of the model are provided in Annex 4.
-9-



2. Flnancial (see Annex 5):  NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
The proposed Trust Fund Credit of US$8 million would cover 53% of the total project costs.
Approximately 90% of the Trust Fund Credit would finance civil works and the remaining 10% would
finance goods, services and supplemental operating costs. The PA contribution includes community
contributions to microprojects of US$1.5 million or 10%. Cofinanciers are expected to provide the
remaining 37% (JS$5.5 million) of the project costs. Cofinancing is not expected to be an issue as many
donors have already shown interest in financing CDP II. The Bank's portion of the financing is expected to
be disbursed over three years starting in FY99.
Fiscal Impact:
Since the Bank will disburse against expenditures net of taxes and duties, microprojects will not be
implemented unless provisions are made for national contributions. Most LGUs (small municipalities and
village councils) are financially weak. Water and electricity charges are their only means of revenue
generation, and weak accounting and budgeting capabilities inhibits determination of the financial positions
of most LGUs. Consequently, LGU capacity to contribute to project investment costs and operation and
maintenance (O & M) is limited. Hence, the PA contribution to capital and 0 & M costs for the most part
will have to come from community members themselves. This is not expected to be an obstacle because
assessments of CDP I and the earlier EGP have shown many instances where community contributions
exceeded 20% of project costs even though only 10% were required. It is envisioned that under CDP II,
part of the community contribution would be targeted to cover basic operation and maintenance costs.
However, long term sustainability of projects are being addressed through other studies and programs being
undertaken by the Bank, such as the Public Expenditure Review (PER) and the Municipal Infrastructure
Development Project (MIDP).
3. Technical:
A technical assessment was conducted on the microprojects financed through the CDP I and
administered by PECDAR. The common types of microprojects were road rehabilitation, sidewalk tiling
and retaining walls, addition of classrooms to schools, rehabilitation of health clinics and hospitals,
rehabilitation of community markets, and extension or rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation. The
main findings of the technical assessment are:
*      ''The engineering standards of completed projects vary from microproject to microproject. In
general, sidewalk tiling and school maintenance/classroom construction have been of acceptable
professional standards, while problems have been observed with a few community markets, sewage lines,
road and street maintenance. Problems observed are mainly due to lack of knowledge among contractors
and supervising engineers of technical standards and specifications; and lack of skills and experience in
road design, construction and maintenance. With the Bank's assistance an engineer's handbook was
developed under CDP I, but has not been properly disseminated or applied in the field.
*     In some cases, microprojects were not completed according to plan and also resulted in project cost
overruns. Lack of unit prices for the costing of works and lack of project monitoring systems have
contributed to cost overruns especially in West Bank managed projects.
*      Safety conditions for labourers and the public at work sites should be improved. Lack of awareness
of acceptable safety conditions by daily supervisors and site supervisors contributes to the problem.
*     There has been a lack of technical experience and capacity among village council engineers in
preparation of microproject proposals, especially with regard to preparing technical designs.
Based on the technical review, the following measures would be integrated into CDP II:
-10-



*     Guidelines for site organisation and safety conditions would be described in the Engineers
Handbook and reviewed during Technical Reviews.
*     Skills-development of appraisal engineers would be undertaken to improve their ability to conduct
an integrated appraisal in order to avoid incomplete microprojects and cost overruns.
*     A simplified system of quality control and assurance will be incorporated into the Engineers
Handbook. Site check lists will be part of the review process for the engineers of the implementing agency.
Funds will be provided to contract consulting firms to provide technical assistance to ensure quality
control.
*     Training and technical assistance would be made available to daily supervisors. As part of this
component reputable consulting engineers will be hired to provide regular technical support to the
LGUs/Camp Services Conmmittee (CSC). Villages without engineers will also be encouraged to subcontract
preparation work or find engineers within the village to contribute expertise in the preparation of the
project proposal.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The MOLG will be the responsible agency for the management of the project. Through an
implementation agreement, MOLG will work with PECDAR, DORA, LGUs/CSCs and other sector
agencies to implement CDP II. An institutional assessment was undertaken during project preparation of
MOLG, PECDAR, DORA, UNRWA and LGUs for the proposed CDP II. (Detailed assessment is in
project files; see Annex 8). The main findings were as follows:
*     The results of MOLG involvement under CDP I and EGP have been mixed. While MOLG staff
have had close working relationships with PECDAR in Gaza, the co-operation in West Bank has not been
satisfactory. In Gaza, MOLG has taken the lead in overall co-ordination and project prioritisation and
selection. Though PECDAR has been responsible for implementation, MOLG has continued to be a partner
in the process. The establishment of a steering committee in Gaza with representatives from relevant
ministries and as well as use of participatory approaches have contributed to the success of the
relationship. In the West Bank, lack of co-operation between MOLG and PECDAR resulted in LGUs
directly submitting their project proposals to PECDAR even though MOLG is the responsible authority for
all villages and municipalities.
*     The assessment included examination of PECDAR's administrative organisation, management
roles and functions, staffing levels, operating procedures and tools, and technology that would be used to
implement the CDP II, namely the accounting system and the MIS. PECDAR has successfully
implemented over 600 microprojects under CDP I and EGP programs. The results from both the financial
audit (Loan Administration Change Initiative - LACI) and the Procurement Audit conducted on PECDAR's
work under CDP I have been satisfactory. However, PECDAR, specifically in the West Bank, has been
unsuccessful in sharing responsibilities, and has for the most part reduced the role of the MOLG in project
implementation.
*     LGUs in the West Bank and Gaza have a long history of providing public goods and services. The
local govenmment system is composed of 31 municipalities (5 in Gaza and 26 in West Bank), 103 village
councils and some 400 villages that have "project committees" composed usually of representatives of
families in the village. Community contributions have averaged about 15% under CDP I. The project
prioritisation and identification was generally decided by the LGUs with limited participation of the
communities themselves. Sometimes LGUs submitted proposals for investments in which they did not have
-11-



requisite licenses and permits, which precluded PECDAR's consideration of the proposal. Water projects,
particularly digging of wells are frequently the top priority of LGUs but licenses from Israeli authorities are
frequently a bottleneck.
*     There are 27 refugee camps in WBG with 19 in the West Bank and 8 in Gaza. UNRWA is
responsible for the camps and has been playing a critical role in providing basic services to the refugees,
particularly in health and education. Recent budget constraints within UNRWA has resulted in limited
number of activities that can be funded. Consequently, UNRWA has welcomed the initiative taken by the
PA under CDP II to support activities within camps. CDP II is being seen as an instrument that will
supplement and not substitute UNRWA activities.
*     DORA has the overall responsibility for refugee affairs on behalf of the PA. CSCs under DORA,
and consisting of nominated representatives from the camps, assist in providing public services such as
road maintenance, shelter rehabilitation, water supply sanitation, solid waste services, etc. The CSCs also
work in close co-operation with UNRWA. The CSCs will be responsible for submission of project
proposals and implementation of microprojects in the refugee camps.
In lieu of these findings, the proposed CDP II is designed to incorporate the following recommendations:
*     MOLG will be the main counterpart to the Bank under CDP II. As per the recent memorandum of
understanding, it is envisioned that a steering commnittee under the chairmanship of MOLG, and comprised
of representatives of PECDAR, DORA and other relevant sector ministries will be responsible for project
selection. (see MOU between the MOLG and PECDAR in projectfiles - see Annex 8)
*     In order to build capacity within the ministries, PECDAR and MOLG will have joint
implementation roles anchored in an agreement which would specify clear roles and responsibilities of all
stakeholders (implementation agreement will befinalised during appraisal).
e     The DORA will co-ordinate with UNRWA and CSCs. It will be the focal point for projects
identified in refugee camps. The selected proposals will be submitted to the SC for approval.
*     Project funds will also be made available to provide technical assistance to build capacity within
MOLG and other relevant sector ministries.
b. Project management:
The overall responsibility for CDP II project management will lie with the MOLG. As per the
Memorandum of Understanding between MOLG and PECDAR, the SC will approve projects for
implementation. Implementation will lie under the responsibility of PECDAR. PECDAR will also head the
team comprising of MOLG representatives in managing the Special Accounts, including the preparation
and submission of replenishment requests, payment to contractors and arrangements for annual audits as
per IDA requirements. The Minister of Local Government and the Managing Director of PECDAR will
have joint signatory responsibility to operate the Special Accounts.
5. Social:
To strengthen community participation under the proposed CDP II, a social assessment of selected
microprojects implemented under the CDP I was carried out by a team of Palestinian social scientists . The
tools used by the researchers were in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with community
members, officials of the PA, and local social scientists. The main findings of the social assessment
include:
*     Beneficiaries are largely satisfied with the positive impact of microprojects on their living
-12-



conditions. Communities typically contribute to the cost of microprojects in labour and cash. Contributions
range from 10 - 15 percent of microproject cost in poor communities and 25-35 percent in relatively better
off communities.
*     Most microprojects are identified by village council representatives with limited consultation with
community members regarding needs and priorities. This has been in part due to perceived time constraints
in submitting proposals to the implementing agency. Consequently, some microprojects have not always
reflected the most urgent needs and priorities of the communities.
*      There is a need to improve the transparency of operations during microproject implementation,
especially to better inform communities on progress in physical works, use of funds, hiring procedures for
labourers, and procurement of goods and services.
*      Most projects were tendered and contracted through PECDAR with little involvement of the LGUs
during implementation. The projects also had lower labour content than originally envisioned during the
design of CDP I (25% average rather than 35% envisioned). However projects where LGUs were involved
in the tendering process tended to have high labour content and use of local contractors.
*     The targeting strategy for the CDP and EGP has been to reach every village and municipality with
a microproject, regardless of poverty levels. Consequently, with exception of the positive employment
effects, poor and vulnerable people have not benefited proportionally from microprojects.
Based on these findings, the following recommendations are included to CDP II project design:
--    In order to increase community participation, LGUs/CSCs would be encouraged to call open
community meetings and to consult with vulnerable groups to build consensus on community priorities.
-      MOLG and PECDAR would delegate contracting and tendering activities to LGUs where capacity
exists to efficiently manage the activities.
-      Microproject social appraisal would integrate criteria related to community participation, such as
holding of community meetings, establishment of microproject management committees, inclusion of
women, youth and the poor in microprojects committees.
-      Social researchers contracted under CDP I would now also be used by the implementing agency to
join technical evaluators during microproject appraisal in order to investigate the means and depth of
community participation. Engineers would also receive training in social mobilisation and social appraisal.
-      Beneficiary assessment would be carried out annually on sample of microprojects in order to gain
beneficiary feedback on microprojects under CDP II.
*      Promotional activities to inform the general public of the objectives, criteria and procedures for the
CDP II will be carried out. Activities would include mass media campaign, publication of brochures, and
information dissemination through existing local government networks.
*      A poverty map is being developed to identify and prioritise areas for targeting. Communities from
these areas will be encouraged to submit project proposals. It is expected that a high percentage of project
resources will flow into areas targeted as poor through the poverty mapping exercise.
-13-



6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category C A 0 C
1 B [E FI
The proposed Project would support environmental improvements through rehabilitation and
improvements of roads, schools, clinics, small water supply and sanitation systems in small municipalities,
villages and refugee camps in West Bank and Gaza. Given that most of the investment activities to be
supported by the proposed Project deal with rehabilitation/improvements of existing infrastructure, and
given that the projects are very small (less than $150,000) - and do not involve issues such as land
acquisition or resettlement, the project has been placed in environmental screening "category B" in
accordance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998) and requires the preparation and
implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
A rapid environment audit was conducted on a random sample of 20 microprojects implemented
under CDP 1. The findings indicated in general, all the projects contributed to positive environmental
impacts. The environmental criteria identified in the Operation Manual appraisal forms were used in
project selection. Positive impacts included the following: Road and sidewalk rehabilitation projects
reduced amount of dust and increased road safety especially in areas close to schools and other public
buildings. Rehabilitation of schools and clinics improved the overall environment and contributed to the
reduction of public health risks. Sanitation projects, especially the rehabilitation of sewer lines, have had
tremendous impact on the improvement in public health in refugee camps in Gaza. Similarly, upgrading
market facilities and tree planting in Gaza municipality have had a positive environmental impact.
Nevertheless, the audit also identified areas in need of improvement. The LGUs, especially in the West
Bank, request school rehabilitation but give little importance to adequate toilet facilities. Few of the road
projects did not adequately deal with surface drainage which normally leads to accelerated road
deterioration and soil erosion.
The EMP has been prepared to integrate environmental concerns into the design and
implementation of the proposed CDP II Pr'oject. It would support: (a) site-specific environmental screening
for microprojects, including rehabilitation of roads, schools, clinics and improvements in water supply and
sanitation; (b) training of staff involved in Project implementation including establishrnent of an
environmental unit within the implementing agency; and (c) monitoring and evaluating mitigation measures
being undertaken during random site-specific reviews. All activities related to the EMP will be closely
co-ordinated with the Palestinian Environmental Authority (PEnA).
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence, if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Lessons learnt from both the social assessment and the BIA conducted on CDP I, including
recommendations from the primary beneficiaries (communities) would feed into the design of CDP II.
Under CDP II, the implementing agency will conduct a social appraisal before project proposals are
accepted, in order to ensure that communities are involved in decision making and have a stake in the
successful implementation and operation of the project. The project would aim to include representatives
from the poor and marginalized members in the project management and operation and maintenance
committees. Under CDP II, annual BIAs will be conducted and lessons learnt will continuously feed into
project operations.
-14-



b. Other key stakeholders:
The steering committee approach in Gaza under CDP I and EGP has worked successfully. The steering
committee conzi4ts of representatives of all stakeholders, including sector ministries, MOLG, UNRWA,
and PECDAR. Decisions on project selection and implementation are taken jointly through the steering
committee. The approach has ensured transparency and ownership among stakeholders. A similar steering
committee will be mobilised under CDP II under the chairmanship of MOLG with representatives from
PECDAR, DORA and relevant sector ministries.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As evidenced in CDP I, community participation and contribution of a minimum of I0% cash to
microproject costs has built ownership on the ground, and thereby increased the likelihood that the projects
would be maintained and sustained in the long term. However, the BIA findings do show weaknesses in
communities planning for operation and maintenance. PECDAR has already begun to address this issue
and is in the process of hiring a consulting firm to assess and provide technical assistance to LGUs in
operation and maintenance. Appraisal engineers would be trained to verify the soundness of the O&M plan
and advise communities on low cost options for preventive maintenance. CDP II would also assist in
institutionalising the requirement for a simplified plan and budget to operate. Respective ministries would
be expected to review microprojects prior to approval by PECDAR indicating that resources are available
for operating costs. It is also envisioned that portion of the community contribution would be set aside to
fund preventive maintenance and minor repairs either locally or part of the construction contract.
Technical staff of LGUs, especially engineers and accountants, would have access to training in order to
increase their skills for operation and preventive maintenance. Long term sustainability of infrastructure
projects is beyond scope of this project and is being addressed by other Bank-financed activities (Public
Expenditure Review study and MIDP).
*-15-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assunptions in the fourth colunm of Annex I):
Risk                  Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
a. LGU budgets for O&M are                H         a. Encourage communities to plan for
inadequate.                                         O&M and contribute to the cost of
preventive maintenance; encourage
commnunity participation to increase
sense of ownership and obligation.
b. MOLG, PECDAR and DORA refuse           M         b. Clear roles and responsibilities are
to cooperate.                                       delineated through a implementation
agreement signed by all three parties
and has been incorporated in the
Operations Manual. The MOLG,
PECDAR and DORA will be actively
involved in the project.
c. MOLG/PECDAR are not interested         M         c. LGUs will benefit through training
in strengthening Local Government                   programs included in the project. For
Units                                               projects in camps, the camp service
committees will be actively involved in
project implementation and will also
benefit through capacity building
programs.
From Components to Outputs
d. Unavailability of cofinancing.         N         d. Promote CDP II among donor
community.
e. Slow disbursement of funds             N         e. Continue strengthening financial
accounting and MIS capacity at
PECDAR.
f. Price inflation (closures lead to     M          f. Promote microprojects that rely on
sudden price increases in some                      local (Palestinian) materials; make
materials)                                          contingencies for each microproject.
g. Unavailability of local private        M         g. Training and technical assistance
contractors who can deliver good                    would be made available to contractors
quality work in a timely manner.                   to help them compete in a bidding
process and to improve their overall
budgeting and management skills; poor
quality work will disqualify contractors
from bidding on future contracts.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Financing works in refugee camps could risk controversy for the PA and the Bank.
-16-



G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Operations Manual acceptable to IDA
2. Implementation agreement between MOLG, PECDAR, and DORA
H. Readiness for Implementation
a 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
a 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable BankL policies.
(  Kingsley 0. Robotham              Jea -Claude Villiard               osephP. Saba
Team Leader                          tor Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-17-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Investment in human resource - Reduction in poverty levels  - Palestinian Central Bureau   - Continuation of the Peace
development and            in WBG.                    of Statistics (PCBS) and MAS. Process.
poverty-alleviation activities.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improved quality and       - Indicators of improved   - BIA                      - Infrastructure improvements
availability of basic social and access of affected population  - PECDAR Reports  and maintenance of social
economic services in poor and to services, such as roads,    - Bank supervision  stability remain main key
marginalized communities of water supply and sanitation,                         objectives of the PA.
West Bank and Gaza.        clinics, schools.                                     - Local employment
- Indicators of beneficiary                           opportunities contribute to
satisfaction with services                            increasing economic activities
provided.                                             at the community level.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
- Infrastructure improvements, - More than 100 projects  - Beneficiary Impact    - Adequate cooperation
designed in participatory  implemented in poor        Assessment                 between implementing
manner, in poor communities; communities during the first  - PECDAR Reports      agencies.
- Training seminars to     18 months of credit        - Audits                   - LGU budgets for operation
increase capacity among    effectiveness;                                        and maintenance of small
LGUs and small contractors to - Four seminars/workshops are                      infrastructure are maintained
implement infrastructure   provided for small contractors                        or increased.
rehabilitation;            over the life the project;                            - One of the priorities of the
- Short-term unskilled and    - Direct employment                                PA is improving basic services
semi-skilled job creation;  generation of 7,000 full-time                        in poor communities.
- Greater economic activity at equivalent jobs (26-days                          - PA is interested in
the local level due to demand  duration) over the life of the                    strengthening LGUs.
for local labour, materials,    project.
contractors and suppliers.  - 95% of labour and 60% of
materials and supplies are
procured locally (WBG).
-18-



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
-Infrastructure microprojects   US$ 13. 5 million is provided - Bank Supervision reports   - Cofinancing is available
implemented in WBG         for microprojects over life of  - Disbursement records  - Timely release of
- Institutional support to  the project;              - Audits                    disbursement to contractors
LGUs and small contractors   - US$0.6 million is provided                         and suppliers.
- Institutional support to  for institutional strengthening                       - Prices remain steady (low
microprojects management   of LGUs and contractors.                               inflation)
unit.                      - US$ 0.9 million is provided                          - Small private contractors are
for institutional support for                          available locally that
three years;                                           demonstrate capacity to
deliver timely and good
quality construction works.
- Experienced providers are
available to deliver technical
assistance and training.
-19-



Annex 2: Project Description
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$13.5 million
Description
1.    Implementation of at least 125 infrastructure microprojects, costing less than US$150,000,
identified by local government units (LGUs)/ and Camp Services Committees (CSCs) with an
average of 25% labour content, using local contractors, suppliers and labourers. Such works may
include improvements in water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, and rehabilitation of
local clinics, primary schools and feeder roads. An absence/reduction in anticipated cofmancing
would consequently result in a reduction in the number of microprojects financed.
Targeting Strategy
2.    In order to prioritise the use of the funds, a poverty map would be used to target the poor
and vulnerable groups. A study is being undertaken by the Palestine Central Bureau of Statistics
(PCBS) and the World Bank using household expenditure and consumption surveys to develop a
rough poverty map for West Bank and Gaza. The map would then be used to rank communities by
poverty and vulnerability. Accordingly, microproject proposals will be encouraged to be submitted
from these poor areas. It is anticipated that many projects will be in refugee camps.
Identification and Screeninlg
3.     MOLG and PECDAR would undertake a promotional campaign to build awareness of the
requirements for project selection under CDP II. The targeting strategy would narrow the pool of
proposals that could be considered for financing under the CDP II. Communities that qualify under
the targeting methodology and that have already submitted proposals would be asked to identify
which one of the proposals is the first priority. All proposals would be reviewed by the MOLG in
order to verify consistency with plans and to avoid duplication of funding from other sources. For
projects in refugee camps, the Department of Refugee Affairs (DORA) with the assistance of
UNRWA, will review and prioritise proposals and forward them to MOLG.
Proposals that meet the following criteria would be eligible for appraisal:
- from a targeted community
- microproject cost does not exceed US$150,000
- microproject is among the typology of CDP microprojects (as stipulated in the Operations
Manual)
- proposal package is complete, including technical designs or sketches, bill of quantities,
copies of written licenses and permits for proposed work, explanation of how the
community participated in identification, and
- contribute to costs, and attached "'Simplified Plan and Budget for Operation and Preventive
Maintenance".
-20-



Appraisal
4.    Once projects have been screened and pre-selected by MOLG, there will be joint technical
and social appraisal undertaken by PECDAR and MOLG. Under CDP I, due to lack of capacity
in the social sector, PECDAR subcontracted the social appraisal to a consulting firm. It is
envisioned that a similar arrangement will be undertaken under CDP II, but with more emphasis on
transferring capacity to staff within MOLG and PECDAR. The appraisal engineers/ social
scientist would review the project proposal and verify that all criteria as stipulated in the
Operations Manual have been satisfied. Thereafter, a site visit will be undertaken whereby the team
would:
- recommend any changes to the proposal so as to better meet the appraisal criteria; verify if
the project proposal reflects community needs and if participatory approaches have been
used to arrive at the priority project (open meetings, involvement of poor and marginalized
in decision making, etc.
- verify and revise the statement of current damages to the existing infrastructure facility.
- verify and revise the bill of quantities based on these changes.
- verify the technical, social, institutional, financial, and environmental criteria in
accordance with the Operations Manual.
Approval
5.    Upon completion of the appraisal, the appraisal team would submit a completed package
along with their recommendation to the Steering Committee (SC) chaired by MOLG and
represented by PECDAR, DORA and other relevant sector ministries. It is envisioned that a batch
of microprojects ( 20 each from Gaza and West Bank) will be presented in every cycle and the SC
will meet as required to authorise clearance (at least four times a year). The appraisal team may
recommend approval, rejection or delay, with explanation of its recommendation. The SC will have
final approval authority on projects for implementation. The approved list will then be sent to IDA
for no-objection.
Coomnunity Contributiont
6.    A minimum of 10% of the microproject cost in cash would be required from the
community for microproject approval. In-kind contributions will also be accepted over and above
the 10% cash contribution. Contributions in-kind would be verified and valued by the appraisal
engineer. The amount, type and timing of delivery of the community contribution would be
stipulated in the Standard Microproject Agreement (SMA) between the requesting LGU/CSC and
MOLG/PECDAR. Community contributions in cash would be deposited into a Special Account
managed by the MOLG and PECDAR. Examples of community contribution would also include
technical designs for preparation of the microprojects, construction materials and equipment
needed for microproject implementation, and equipment and supplies needed for operation that can
be easily monetized.
Sustainability
7.    A completed Microproject Proposal Package would include a "Simplified Budget and Plan
for Operation and Preventive Maintenance" for the proposed microproject from the commnunity.
During appraisal, the appraisal engineer would review the budget and plan with the LGU/CSC to
-21-



ensure that the costs can be met by the LGU/CSC, UNRWA, government ministries or agencies,
and cost sharing by users or members of the community. The appraisal engineer would make
recommendations to the LGU/CSC on technical or other steps that can be taken to minimise
operating or future maintenance costs. Written documentation would be required from the
respective ministry to indicate that resources are available for operating costs for the project.
Procurement and Implemnentation
8.    Once approved by IDA, the project proposals will be sent to PECDAR for implementation.
The Procurement Department within PECDAR would determine the appropriate mode of
procurement in accordance with the Operational Manual. Microprojects costing US$50,000 and
above would be packaged and tendered in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. For
microprojects under US$50,000, NCB procurement would be based on simplified procedures. In
cases where competitive bidding is not feasible "direct contracting" would be the alternative and
would be implemented through LGUs with supervision from PECDAR and MOLG.
9.    Upon approval of a proposal, a Standard Microproject Agreement would be signed
between the PECDAR and the LGU/CSC specifying the roles and responsibilities of the PECDAR,
LGU/CSC, daily supervisor, and any other parties in microproject implementation. The community
contribution would be deposited in a local bank account prior to start of microproject
implementation. The LGU/CSC would be authorised to hire a daily supervisor for the duration of
the microproject. The LGU/CSC would designate one representative to verify the quality and
progress of work, goods and services, prior to payment of contractors, suppliers and the daily
supervisor.
Tendering and Contract Mantagemnent
10.   Selected projects will be jointly advertised and tendered by MOLG and PECDAR. Bids
will be opened, evaluated and awarded jointly by the MOLG and PECDAR.
11.   Once contracts have been awarded, PECDAR will be fully responsible for the
implementation of works including the finalization of contract documents, signing of contracts, the
technical supervision of the works and certification of payments.
Comnpletion and Handover
12.   Upon completion of the microproject, a Completion Certificate would be signed by the
receiving LGU/CSC, MOLG and PECDAR verifying that the microproject is satisfactory and
complete.
Project Component 2 - US$0.6 million
13.   Subcontract agreements with qualified firms or individuals to provide training to
LGUs/CSCs to ensure good quality microproject proposals, responsiveness to competitive bidding,
and an increased capacity to plan, manage and implement infrastructure investment, operations and
maintenance. Training would be provided through qualified firms or individuals and delivered to all
stakeholders including MOLG/ PECDAR and other sector ministries. Training to contractors to
participate in competitive bidding procedures and provide supporting documentation for payment
would also be delivered through subcontracting arrangements' Part of the resources would also be
-22-



used to subcontract local firms to prepare technical studies for complex projects. BIAs will, as part
of the monitoring and evaluation process, be funded through this component. Technical assistance
are estimated at 4% of the total project costs.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.9 million
14.   Supplemental operating costs, vehicles, communications and other equipment, audits,
impact studies needed by MOLG and PECDAR for project execution and management. In the
event that co-financing does not materialise, the operating costs would be reduced according to the
levels needed for supervising and managing fewer microprojects.
15.    Training directly related to project management would be provided to staff in computers,
comprehensive appraisal, procurement, and financial management. Financial audits by external
auditors acceptable to IDA would be done twice a year. Technical reviews and procurement
reviews would be conducted every year. Project management costs are estimated at 6% of the total
project costs.
-23-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $million
1. Civil Works: Implementation of at least 125 infrastructure  12.3         0.0          12.3
microprojects, costing not more than US$150,000.
2. Technical Assistance: Training to LGUs/CSCs, contractors   0.6           0.0           0.6
and implementing agencies
3. Project Management: Supplemental operating costs, vehicles,  0.7         0.1           0.8
communications and other equipment, and impact studies needed
by implementing agencies for project execution and management.
Total Baseline Cost                                          13.6           0.1          13.7
Physical Contingencies                                       0.5           0.0           0.5
Price Contingencies                                          0.8           0.0           0.8
Total Project Costs                14.9           0.1          15.0
Total Financing Required                 14.9          0.1           15.0
-24-



Annex 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
The Community Development Project consists of small rehabilitation works and since it is
demand driven no detailed economic analysis can be undertaken ex-ante. Cost-effectiveness analysis
has been used for projects where data availability is limited and the size of the projects does not justify
the time spent in collecting data for a full cost-benefit analysis. Accordingly, under CDP I a
cost-effectiveness model was designed with the objective to establish cost ratios as one of the criteria
for project selection. The cost-effectiveness model was based on a simple scoring system using seven
indicators: village size, community contribution, labour content, cost per beneficiary, cost per worker,
cost per person day of employment and cost per construction day. Each of the indicators were allocated
scores ranging from 0 to 4. Individual scores were decided based on experience and studies by local
researchers (MAS) on employment generation programs. For example:
Labour Content      Score              Community Contribution    Score
0 -10%                0                     0 -10%                 0
10% - 20%             1                     10 - 20%               2
20% - 30%             2                     20 - 40%               4
> 30%                 4
The data for the seven indicators were obtained from the project appraisal form and input into an "Excel"
sheet. A scoring system was developed for overall acceptance or rejection of the project based on the
aggregate scores. The maximum score was 25 and the minimum score was 2. Projects with scores more
than 10 were acceptable.
1.    Input Screen is shown below:            3.    Score
Total Cost of Project:
Community contribution:                               Village Size (pop):
Output of Project:                                    Community Contribution:
Number of construction days:                          Labour Content:
Number of beneficiaries:                              Cost/Beneficiary:
Total labour cost:                                    Cost/Worker:
Total number of workers:                              Cost per Person-Day of Empl:
Cost per Construction Day:
TOTAL Score:
2.    Analysis Screen
Economic
Cost per beneficiary:
Labour content:
Cost per worker:
Cost per person day of Employment:
Financial
Community contribution:
Cost per construction day:
Cost per unit output:
Daily Average Wage:
-25-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
Years Ending
December
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
| Year 1| Year 2         Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6         Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             5.0        7.0         3.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.1         0.2        0.2         0.2        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs            5.1        7.2         3.2        0.2         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing                5.1        7.2         3.2  -     0.2         0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    3.0         4.0        1.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                  0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                1.6        2.4        1.5         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.4         0.7        0.6         0.1        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       5.1         7.2        3.2        0.2         0.0       0.0         0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
IYear 1     Year 2  IYear 3  1 Year 4         Year 5     Year 6  JYear 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1         0.2        0.2         0.2        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs           0.1         0.2        0.2        0.2         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               0.1         0.2        0.2        0.2         0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1         0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.1         0.2        0.2        0.2         0.0        0.0        0.0
NMain assumptions:
As the projects are demand driven, it is difficult to calculate recurrent costs. However, using the experience
gained under CDP I, we estimate the recurrent costs during the implementation period would be approx. $0.2
million per year. We also assume that these costs would be financed partly through government budget and
community contributions. Projects which do not have sector ministry commitment to operation of the facility
-26-



will be excluded from funding. Furthermore, the long term operations and maintenance costs (operational
period) is an issue for all infrastructure activities being undertaken in WBG. This issue is being addressed by
other Bank activities namely the Public Expenditure Review and the Municipal Infrastructure Development
Project.
-27-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
Procurement
As per requirements of the new Bank guidelines on procurement, a procurement audit of CDP I was
undertaken. The report has given the implementing agency a clean bill of health. The reports will be part of
assessments on file.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement would be in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997), using
standardised local bidding procedures and contract forms in the Operations Manual. Small projects
may be bid as packages to overcome local implementation deficiencies and increase competition.
The size of the civil works would range between US$20,000 to US$150,000 and while not
attracting foreign contractors will benefit the local private sector. Therefore, National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures and IDA's Standard Bidding Documents, adapted to NCB in Arabic,
would be used for contracts greater than US$50,000. For contracts less than $50,000, NCB
procurement would be based on simplified procedures and bidding documents requiring posting of
bidding opportunities in public places and bid openings. These procedures would be specified in
the Operations Manual. In cases where competitive bidding is not feasible, "Direct Contracting"
would be the alternative. Goods less than US$50,000 would be procured through National
Shopping and goods over US$50,000 through International Shopping. National Shopping would be
based on at least three quotations; International Shopping on three quotations from at least two
countries.
Procurement of consulting services would be in accordance with Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September
1997). For consultants contract over $100,000, IDA's standard RFP document would be used.
Procurement seminars/workshops catered to microprojects would be held in Gaza and
West Bank during the first year of project operation. PECDAR/MOLG would be responsible for
monitoring procurement activities of project beneficiaries and compliance of contractors and
suppliers with contract provisions.
Incremental operating expenses of the project management unit including salaries, rent,
operation and maintenance of vehicles will be financed through the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
-    Procurement procedures for the first batch of microprojects and all projects under
direct contracting.
-     Consultant contracts with estimated value of US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals, as well as the first three consultant contracts of any
value.
-     Goods and services contracts over US$50,000 estimated contract value.
-28-



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project funds are expected to be disbursed over a period of three years beginning May, 1999,
and completed before June 2002. The closing date for the Bank loan would be October 2002. It is
estimated that PECDAR/MOLG would be able to disburse at average of US$3 million per year.
All IDA funded disbursements towards civil works are expected to be completed in 36 months
from day of project effectiveness. To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, a
Special Account will be established under CDP II with joint signatory authority of the heads of
MOLG and PECDAR. An initial deposit of the $1.5 million will be made into the Special Account
from the IDA credit. PECDAR would submit replenishment applications for the Special Account
on a monthly basis.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
-      all contracts under civil works
-      consultant contracts of less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals
-      local training and studies
-      seminars, workshops
-      operating costs ( supplemental operating costs including salaries, administrative expenses,
rent, vehicle maintenance.)
Special account:
-      establishment of a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA
-      initial deposit of US$ 1.5 million into the Special Account
-29-



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB           Other2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                              0.0            10.0           3.5             0.0            13.5
(0.0)          (5.2)          (1.8)           (0.0)          (7.0)
2. Goods                              0.0            0.0            0.1             0.0            0.1
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0. 1)          (0.0)          (0. 1)
3. Services                          0.0             0.0             1.4            0.0            1.4
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0.9)           (0.0)          (0.9)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)           (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                              0.0            10.0           5.0             0.0            15.0
(0.0)          (5.2)          (2.8)           (0.0)          (8.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through direct contracting and national shopping,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
-30-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                          Contracts Subject to
Threshold           Procurement           Prior Review
Expenditure Category   (US$ thousands)           Method             (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >50          NCB/Direct Contracting  > 0.15; first batch of
microprojects; Direct
Contracting
NCB (simplified
<50          docs)/Direct Contracting   Direct Contracting
2. Goods                      >50           International Shopping    all contracts over
$50,000
<50            National Shopping
3. Services                Firm: >100              QCBS                   All
<100           QBS, CQ, SS       First three and Single
Source
Individual: >50          QCBS                   All
<50          QBS, CQ, SS            First three
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    N/A
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-31-



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
Civil Works - Sub-Project             7.0                           100 %
Grants
Goods                                 0.1               100% of foreign expenditures and
85% of local expenditures
Consultant Services                   0.2                           100%
Operating Expenditures                0.5                           100%
Unallocated                           0.2
Total Project Costs                   8.0
Total                                 8.0
-32-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  3                       6
First Bank mission (identification)     09/15/98                    09/15/98
Appraisal mission departure              11/17/98                   02/02/99
Negotiations                             11/28/98                   02/11/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness           04/30/99
Prepared by:
Kanthan Shankar
Preparation assistance:
Fifi Antar
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Hisham Labadi                     Procurement and Roads
Husam Abu-Dagga                  Institutional
Frederick Krantz                  Procurement
Hans Gruss                        Legal
Nabil Shehadeh                    Finance - advisory
Marie-Ange Le                     Budget
Kingsley Robotham                 Team Leader
Kanthan Shankar                   Task Team Leader, Environment and Social Infrastructure
-33-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The first draft of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was first submitted by PECDAR on October 10th,
1998 The PIP has since then been revised and the final PIP agreed and signed by all parties has been
submitted to the Bank.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Institutional assessment
2. Environmental Management Plan
3. Procurement Audit
4. Cost Effectiveness Model.
5. Poverty Map
C. Other
1. Technical assessment
2. Social Assessment
3. Environmental Assessment
4. Financial Management Audit
*Including electronic files
-34-



Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of January 31, 1999)
Loan or    Fiscal  Borrower           Purpose             (Amount in US$
Credit No.   Year                                          million - rounded
upwards)
TFGWB
Disbursed
15 TF
Credits
94    PECDAR   Emergency Rehabilitation      30.0       30.00
TF026066
TF026065      95    PECDAR   Education and Health           20.0      20.00
Rehabilitation
TF026058      96    PECDAR   Emergency Rehabilitation II    20.0      19.75
TF026057      96    PLO         Municipal Infrastructure    40.0      28.55
Development
TF026056      97    PLO         Gaza Water and Sanitation   25.0      14.29
Improvement Project
TF024100      97    PLO         Microenterprise Project      5.0       0.5
TF024112      97    PECDAR   Community Development          10.0      6.91
Project
TF026052      97    PLO         Housing Project             25.0       0.0
TF026050      97    PLO        Investment Guarantee Fund    10.0      10.0
Project
TF027041      97    PLO         Palestinian Expatriate      3.0       0.15
Professional Program
TF026048      98    PLO         Gaza Industrial Estate       10       0.96
TF026063      97    PLO         Legal Development Project   5.5       0.59
TF026047      98    N/A*        Palestinian NGO Project     10.0      2.24
TF026046      98    PLO         Bethlehem 2000               25         3
*Grant recipient: The Welfare Association
- 35 -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Dec-1998
In Millions US Dollars
Conmuitted                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994              APIB                            0.00    0.00    3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.73    0.00
1997               Arab Bank                      0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00
1997               ComBank Palestin               0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15       0.00    0.00
1997               PIECO                          8.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.00    0.00
1997               SEF Arab Concret               0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1997              Jordan National                 0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00
1997              SEF Nabahin                     0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               PTF                            0.00    0.00    11.90    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.38    0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00
1998               SEF Pharmacare                 0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                   1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              SEFJericho Motel                1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        12.72    7.50   16.90    0.00    2.75    0.45    7.15    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999              PMHC                            15.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1999              SEF COLD STORAGE                 0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              APIB                            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      30.20    4.00    0.00    0.00
-36-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Second Community Development Project
West   M. East   Lower-                                        10113198
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Bank   & North   middle-
& Gaza     Africa   income      Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         2.4       283      2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                              2,060      1230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         ..       583 -  2.818
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                          l
Population (%)                                          5.5       2.3        1.2                      TN
Labor force M                                           6.3        3.2       1.3     GNP           .                  Gross
per                            ...... primar
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (0 of population below national poverty line)   24
Urban population (X of total population)                70         57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70         67        69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               28         48        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                     Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   90        71        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     16        39        19
Gross primarv enrollment (X of school-age population)   91         97        III        -West 8enk and Gaza
Male                                                  91        102       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                92         91       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1985     1995      1996       1997
Economic ratios
GOP (USS billions)                             1.0      3.3        3.4       3.3
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                 28.6     36.4      34.1       341                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             30.5     17.0      17 5       17.5
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   -31.1     -8.0      -17.7     -17.7
Gross national savinqs/GDP                     2.5     18.9        9.5       9.4
Current account balance/GDP                  -11.0    -17.5     -24.6      -24.6     Domestc
Interest payments/GDP                                                                 ains-                       Investment
Total debtiGDP                                                                       Savings
Total debt servicelexports
Present value of debtIGDP
Present value of debtlexports
Indebtedness
1985-94     1995     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  7.3      -5.2     -0.8      -0.8                   -W est Bank and Gaza
GNP per capita                       1.1      -9.9     -8.2      -3.7                         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        2.7    -19.6      14.4      -0.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
M% of GDP)                                   1985     1995       1996      1997      Growth rabs of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   19.7     14.5      16.3       15.9
Industry                                      24.9     26.8      24.4       24.2    20
Construction                                16.9      9.7        9.4       8.8    10
Services                                      55.4     58.6      59.3       60.0        f
Private consumption                          118.2     94.1      95.8       98.4    10      92   93
General govemment consumption                 12.9     13.9      22.0       19.4                     GDI       t  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 90.2     61.4      69.3       69.3 C3mGOP
(average annual growth)                  `1985-94     1995       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   13.9     -8.5       11.9      -0.8    40
Manufacturing                                  9.7     31.0     -12.4        4.2
Construction                                   9.2      8.3      -3.8       -4.5    20
Private services                              10.5    -12.7      -8.0        3.0
Public services                                4.7      3.6      17.9        3.0                       94 9  97
Private consumption                            4.3     -0.6      10.6        2.1   -20 .
General govemment consumption                  7.1    -24.4      56.4      -12.4
Grossdomesticinvestment                        0.2     11.6      -4.5       -0.8    -
Imports of goods and services                  8.4    -16.9      24.3       -0.8               -Exports   -nmports
Gross national product                         5.3     -4.4      -2.6        2.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averasce If data are missina the diamond will
be incomplete.
-37-



West Bank and Gaza
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1985     1995        1996      1997       Inflation
Domestic prices30
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 289.5       10.1       11.0        7.6      20
Implicit GDP deflator                                      t2.6        12.3       7.6     
Government finance                                                                         I_E
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                 92    93    94    95    r6    97
Current revenue                                   11.0      15.6       20.0       247                      99-59
Current budget balance                             2.0     -2.0        -2.8       -1.1                     GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           -0.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                   i985      1995       1996       1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               272       414        450                Q2Soo0
n.a.                                                                                     I
n.a.                                                                                     120.
Manufactures                                      1. oo i.
Total imports (cif)                               668     1.784      2,123
Food
Fuel and energy                                                                                        D             r-      D
Capital goods                                                                               r
91   92   93   94   95   ~~~96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..                                                 92   93   94
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                          0 Exports       U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                   1985      1995       1996m      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     305       558        598        585       0   iE
Imports of goods and services                     750     2,014      2,369      2.317       s '   :1  [3    94
Resource balance                                 -445    -1,456      -1.770    -1,732                        - 
-10
Net income                                        227       534        469        632
Net current transfers                             108       349        461        276      -15
Current account balance                          -110      -574        -841      -824      -20
Financing items (net)                               .2 -
Changes in net reserves                                                                     30 - .
Memo:
Required reserves with PMA (US$ millions)           ..       44        184        239
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                   1.2      3.0         3.2       3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1 985    1 995       1 996     1 997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
IBRD
IDA                                                        23         50        103
Total debt service
IBRD
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                          441         548       541
Official creditors                                         21         27         54
Private creditors
Foreign direct investment
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                                20         85         69
Disbursements                                             21          27         53
Principal repayments                                        0          0          0
Net flows                                                  21         27         53
Interest payments                                           0          0          0
Net transfers                                             21          27         53
World Bank Resident Mission: West Bank and Gaza                                                                                10/13/98
-38-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Project Implementation Agreement
WEST BANK AND GAZA
SECOND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
A.    Backgrounid
1.    Introduction. The CDP II project will build on the success of CDP I, and while continuing to
improve the availability and quality of infrastructure services, will now refine its strategy to target the poor
and marginalized communities in West Bank and Gaza. This objective would be pursued by identifying
poor areas and targeting them through labor intensive microprojects which, in addition to preserving capital
assets, will also increase temporary jobs for laborers and promote opportunities for local contractors and
suppliers. It is expected that the a significant amount of activities under CDP II will be in refugee camps.
2.    Investment Components. The $15 million project will consist of the following main components:
a) Civil Works (90%): Implementation of about 125 infrastructure microprojects, costing
not more than US$150,000 each, identified and implemented by LGUs with a minimum
of 25% labor content, using local contractors, suppliers and laborers. Such works may
include improvements in water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, and
rehabilitation of local clinics, primary schools and feeder roads.
b) Technical Assistance (4%): Subcontract agreements with qualified firms or individuals
to provide training to the LGUs to ensure good quality microproject proposals,
responsiveness to competitive bidding and increased capacity to plan, implement
infrastructure rehabilitation works including operation and maintenance.
c) Project Management (6%): Supplemental operating costs, vehicles, communications
and other equipment, beneficiary impact studies needed by the implementing agency for
project execution and management.
3.    Institutional Structure: The Palestinian Environmental Authority (PEnA) will enable Palestine to
develop a coherent environmental strategy for West Bank and Gaza. However, the PEnA is institutionally
weak and will require assistance in capacity building over the next few years to adequately address all
issues under its mandate. The Bank and other bilateral donors are already contributing to the capacity
building exercise through various technical assistance activities. For example, the World Bank administered
programs such as the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program (METAP) and the
Japanese funded PHRD grants are funding feasibility studies to develop an environmental project which
has capacity building as one of its main components. Furthermore, other donors such as the Netherlands is
assisting PEnA develop a NEAP and UNDP is funding capacity building efforts including funding staff
positions within PEnA.
4.    The proposed CDP II project will be coordinated through the Ministry of Local Government and
implemented through the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR).
-39-



5.     Environmental Category. The proposed Project would support environmental improvements
though rehabilitation and improvements in roads, schools, clinics, small water supply and sanitation
systems in small municipalities, villages and refugee camps in West Bank and Gaza. Potential adverse
environmental impacts have been summarized in Table 1 and are restricted in scope and severity. These
risks can be effectively anticipated in advance of Project implementation and addressed by direct mitigation
activities in the design, planning and construction process. Since most of the investment activities to be
supported by the proposed Project deal with rehabilitation/improvements of existing infrastructure, and
since the projects are very small - costing less than $150,000 - and do not involve issues such as land
acquisition or resettlement, it has been placed in environmental screening "category B" in accordance with
World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998) and requires the preparation and implementation of an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
6.    Environmental Audit of projects under CDP 1: A rapid environment audit was conducted on a
random sample of 20 microprojects implemented under CDP I. The findings showed that for the most part,
all the projects contributed to positive environmental impacts. The environmental criteria identified in the
Operation Manual appraisal forms were used in projects selection. Positive impacts included the following:
Road and sidewalk rehabilitation projects reduced amount of dust and increased road safety especially in
areas close to schools and other public buildings. Rehabilitation of schools and clinics improved the overall
environment and contributed to reducing public health risks. Sanitation projects, especially the
rehabilitation of sewer lines have had tremendous impacts on the improvement in public health in refugee
camps in Gaza. Similarly upgrading market facilities and tree planting in Gaza municipality have had
positive environmental impacts. Nevertheless, the audit also identified areas needing improvements. The
Local Government Units, especially in the West Bank request school rehabilitation but give little
importance to adequate toilet facilities. For example, in Abu Qarsh school rehabilitation project there was
no provision made for rehabilitation of toilet facilities. Few of the road projects did not adequately deal
with surface drainage which normally results in accelerated road deterioration and soil erosion.
7.     Consultation Process. Participation and consultation are main features of the Community
Development Project. Project proposals are developed by the local communities and forwarded through the
Ministry of Local Government to the implementing agency - Palestinian Econornic Council for
Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) for final appraisal and implementation. PECDAR conducts a
social appraisal to access community ownership before the project proposal is accepted. The consultation
process involves public meetings, interviews, focus group discussions and sometimes women-only
meetings. PECDAR has also developed promotional brochures to ensure public awareness and
transparency of project objectives. Similarly under CDP II, consultations and participation will be integral
parts of the project selection and implementation. Furthermore, under CDP II, poor and marginalized
communities will be targeted for funding through the development of a poverty map.
B.    Environmental Managenment Plain
8.    Enviromnental Management Plan. The EMP has been prepared to integrate environmental
concerns into the design and implementation of the proposed CDP II Project. It would support: (a)
site-specific environmental screening for microprojects including rehabilitation of roads, schools, clinics
and improvements in water supply and sanitation; (b) training staff involved in Project implementation; and
(c) monitoring and evaluation of mitigation measures identified during random site-specific reviews. All
activities related to the EMP will be closely coordinated with the PEnA.
9.     Site Specific Environmental Screening and Review. The screening and review process would be
conducted in close cooperation the PEnA. Environmental review will be conducted by the local expert and
-40-



flagged projects will be subjected to detailed site reviews. A standardized appraisal format which will be
used and will consist of, but is not limited to, review of: (a) current environmental problems (soil erosion,
water supply contamination) at the sites; (b) potential environmental impacts, if any, due to the project
(disposal of wastes) ; potential impacts on archaeological and historical sites from the rehabilitation
activities. The Project would also use "chance find procedures" in the event unrecorded archaeological sites
are uncovered during construction activities.
10.    Establishment of Environmental Expertise within CDP II Implementation Unit. Environmental
expertise will be established within the implementing agency for the coordination and supervision of
environmental activities funded through the CDP II project. The expert will work in close coordination with
the PEnA and would: (a) coordinate environmental reviews of subprojects and monitoring; (b) coordinate
environmental training activities for staff, designers and contractors; and (c) conduct periodic site visits to
review progress. Considering the size and scope of the rehabilitation work under the Project, it is envisioned
that the Unit will consist of one environmental expert either directly hired by PECDAR or contracted
through a local consulting firm.
11.    Environmental Capacity Building and Training Program  Since there is limited capacity to
undertake such actions within PEnA at the present time, the training program would be designed and
implemented with the assistance of local or international consulting firms. The training program would
target two levels:
Inpletinenlting Agency: Training would be provided to staff involved in the Project, including I
or 2 day seminars on environmental awareness and other specific environmental aspects related
to design and implementation of roads, water supply and preservation of cultural heritage
activities. The training would also be open to staff from PEnA, cooperating Sector Ministries
and participating local government units (LGUs); and
Contractors. Training would be provided through I or 2 day workshops for local contractors,
focusing on public awareness, case studies of environmental issues experienced in similar
projects, use of environmental guidelines, implementation of mitigation measures and use of
archaeological chance find procedures.
12.    Project Monitoring: Since the number of projects will be large, microprojects will selected at
random (a minimum of 20% of projects under implementation) and would be subjected to a site-specific
environmental screening and review process conducted by the implementing agency at least two times a
year. This process would minimize site-specific environmental impacts. A monitoring plan is shown in
Table 2.
13.    Reporting. The Environmental expert within the implementing unit would prepare Quarterly
Reports outlining progress in EMP implementation. The reports would not be more than two pages and
would highlight environmental issues, if any, in the microprojects, status of the mitigation measures taken
and next steps, if any. The reports would be submitted to the PEnA and the World Bank as part of the
quarterly progress report.
14.    Project Supervision. The environmental issues including mitigation measures would be supervised
regularly by the staff of the World Bank Resident Mission, the PEnA and the implementing agency.
Progress in implementation of mitigation measures would be included in regular Bank supervision reports
including the Project Status Report (PSR) updates, the mid-term review and the Implementation
-41-



Completion Report.
15.    EMP Cost Estimate and Schedule. It is currently estimated that EMP implementation would cost
US$ 85,000 for staff, consultants, training activities and "chance find" as presented in Table 3. EMP
implementation would be integrated into the overall schedule for the proposed Project and a preliminary
schedule for key activities is provided as Table 4. The budget and implementation schedule for the EMP
would be discussed and agreed upon during the appraisal mission.
Table I - Potential Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
Project Component             Potential Impacts       Mitigation Measures   Responsible Agency
1. Roads                 . clogging of natural       . Maintain ditches    . LGUs and
Rehabilitation             drainage channels         * proper disposal of    PECDAR
* encroachment into private  construction wastes
property                  . use "chance find"
* dumping of construction    procedures and
wastes and accidental       coordinate with
spillage of machine oil,    Palestinian
lubricants, etc.            Department of
. risk of damage to unknown    Archaeology (PDA)
archaeological sites.
2. Improvements in       . cross contamination       . coordinate with the    . LGUs and
Water Supply and         (sewage and water lines     PWA                   PECDAR in close
Sanitation               due to pressure differential   . proper disposal of  coordination with
and leakage)                construction wastes    the PWA
. improper disposal         . use "chance find"
construction debris         procedures and
. destruction of historical  coordinate with
sites                       PDA.
* risk of damage to unknown
archaeological sites
3. Rehabilitation of     * improper disposal of wastes  . proper disposal of    . LGUs and
Schools and Clinics      * improper disposal of        hazardous wastes;     PECDAR in close
medical wastes              containerize          coordination with
infectious wastes.    the Ministry of
. public health        Health and
awareness             Ministry of
. priority given to     Education.
rehabilitation of
toilets in
rehabilitation of
schools/clinics
-42-



Table 2: Sub projects Monitoring Plan
Sub-Project       Monitoring Indicators            Responsibility       Frequency
Roads              1.   operating drainage channels   Environmental     semi-annual
Rehabilitation     2.    no visible negative impacts   Specialist in close  assessment
on surrounding habitat      coordination with
MOLG and PEnA.
Improvement in     3.    clean functioning toilets  Environmental       semni-annual
Sanitation        4.    no leakage or overflows of    Specialist in close  assessment
Facilities.           manholes and drains.         coordination with
MOLG and PEnA.
Improvement in     5.    medical wastes separated in   Environmental    semi-annual
Clinics               the waste stream including   Specialist in        assessment
proper location of hazardous    coordination with the
waste containers.            MOH and PEnA.
6.    availability of proper
guidelines for collection and
disposal of hazardous wastes in
the clinic.
Rehabilitation of    7.   toilet facilities clean and  Environmental    semi-annual
Schools               functioning properly.        Specialist in close    assessment
8.    drinking water faucets clean  coordination with
and safe from contamination  MOE and PEnA.
Table 3 - EMP Cost Estimates
Components of EMP               3ty.      Unit Rate        Cost in Thousands USD
T  Total      Foreign     Local
Environmental Expert hired for 2    24 MM    $1500/MM     36          0.0       36
years
Capacity Building and Training
(a) Training for staff, PEnA and  4        $8000          24          10        14
Sector Ministries
Seminars/Workshops
(b) Training for contractors      4        $4,000         16                    16
Contingency budget for
archaeological chance find support                          4                     4
from Palestinian Department of
Archaeology
Miscellaneous                                               5                     5
TOTAL                                                     85          10        70
-43-



Table 4 - EMP Implementation Schedule
(tentative-
Major Project Activities       May  Jun  Jul Aug Sep  Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar  Apr May
99   99   99  99  99  99  99  99  00  00  00   00  00
1. Hiring of Environmental
Specialist                      x
2. Capacity Building and
Training:
a) training for staff within        x                                x
implementing agency and Sector
Ministries -
Seminars/Workshops                        x                               x
b) training for contractors
3. Contingency budget for
archeological chance find       x    x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x   x    x    x   x
support from Palestinian
Department of Archeology
-44-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
SEClOND COMMUNITY DEVLLOPMFi% 'jPROJECT
TMPLEMINTATION AGRETNIENT
AGrmEEMENT  dmte4 .V999 .        &i, .s94   betl . Ihc  Ministry or LouI
6rjv&remt thMOL0I; I^,r P2kcsdrj    EclriniW  CwYsiJ IM." Rec;4-ICmtier LUJL
DI-loptmm (i iJAR1 JAR) aad the tlcp :rLnt.x .M:lRefug.-. Affazii (D fJX
'?%R .1KA!. t. Pijhsti3il I  -izioQ Oraaur/ uf aPLO}) 15is po?3anI Ic cnmcr, 'Our
tfh  bm:cfh .of1ic Pzevstia  Au.ibLy, minu uJTZit Fnund 2rMt, t ApPrc=",.r C7FL'A
dt1      I 1Il ammujuil lie-ioe Ompml jA.SFrGo ALiu   A41 u1 f tc he Trt FwiT
Asr iv'W. Banc and iaAki*i.
il*RkA  tfat  TFCA   jrcwviki  fcr tPe thrcr x-vnucibs :  ewcr  i   a
TmnplruF3I-o AgflWflL (as 15 t#rn i:1 ;fidC4 in !h Cft Agi:xrnzamL) bemen
MI.1I (t. PECDjxR ad D)RA, layin- opir "rn  ani iLg puiNlitien urder thm snJd
Cimmumry DlmvIpmwrm ?IP1ect.
NOw Wf !T? 11EFORE. II*. pvtics, r.-zvW 5*re'-s nore as fouawxs;
1.        =ms uset in iis uw,mlnt shall i4vz tho mwe Ie nrng desead ri
s -hen htlz Crvd-l %Vew:rie
2.   Tba artvm mcaio.:d paTiipanLN will ;irn  -oat Lb. impilmc-aiudon ctf rlw
pro.jt m das-ikl in the atPhul m'ie 'Pmoec TnpicmcntPlk a2 w4
Reipoigib[irMy hfatrix (PIP)
.    'I he ardancipinu  agencas 4ill rc0iew inn an  =naruul buw le  uptoe
agendeca pucfi=.ice un,4er de PIP  dM  slhaUl ir I       t., !Oducc
maUdiwatkmns un :h PIP with IDA'q jnrtr uiLLkn uyprovaL
IN  WIITN XS      l WIERPXOF, tie pmLum: tie    -   s      .      
k1hiin.- of Lecal GovmraeIy              -         -
PaIemriian FcarsoDmic CXwo  It f    nei*nm2rLnstr=iion
.............. ..........   
De  >im i rj4 Kc(wt AS';Thio
-  .-  ... .. ....... ......  . .. ...... .,_. 
-45-



WEST BANK AND GAZA
Second Community Development Project
Project Implementation Plan and Schedule
February 1999 (revised)
Objectives
* Rehabilitate or restore basic economic and social infrastructure in small, poor,
densely populated areas and marginalized communities in the West Bank and Gaza.
* Increase temporary job opportunities for skilled and unskilled laborers, and demand
for local suppliers and small contractors;
* Build the capacity of local government units and CSC's in planning, operating and
maintain the utilities and the community infrastructure projects.
Components
The objectives will be realized through four components:
* Provision of grants to finance approximate 150 small scale (micro) projects identified
by the local government units and the Department of Refugee Affairs to rehabilitate
the social and economic infrastructure . The cost estimate of the civil work for the
specified micro-projects shall be between US$20,000 to a maximum of US$150,000.
The maximum ceiling were set to allow more areas to benefit from the fund although
it should not be directed to semi finished projects. It is expected that at least 90% of
the fund to be directed to the civil or physical works identified by the beneficiaries
and approved by the steering committee(PECDAR, MOLG, DORA).Beneficiaries
will contribute at least 10% of the project cost.
* Supplemental operating supervision and project management costs which include
projects supervision transportation cost and fuel expenses for all coordinating parties;
in addition to other logistics costs of PECDAR . (Other PNA associated institutional
managerial and administration cost will be considered as part of the national
contribution ).The total cost of this component would be in the range of 6% of the
fund ceiling.
*  Provision of training and technical assistance to contractors and local government
units and MOLG and PECDAR related to planning and implementing small
infrastructure works. The total cost of this component would be 2% of the fund
ceiling.
* Unallocated component which will be decided while implementing the program. The
total cost of this component 2% of the fund ceiling.
-46-



Project Management and Implementation
Representatives of PECDAR, MOLG, DORA will be the members of the steering
committee that oversee the selection and implementation of the civil component in
accordance to the national plans and in accordance with the revised operational manual.
The role of PECDAR and MOLG shall be complimenting in accordance with the
responsibility matrix which would be revisited and updated yearly taking in consideration
the real capabilities of the two parties. PECDAR will be responsible for the financial
administration of the fund with cooperation of MOLG using the World Bank procedures.
The projects from LGC's and DORA will be channeled to MOLG for initial screening
and subsequently jointly appraised by PECDAR and MOLG and then sent to the steering
committee for approval. A memorandum of understanding MOU between PECDAR and
MOLG already been signed (29/12/1998) and is also reflected in the attached
responsibility matrix. A MOU will also be signed betwee n the Departtnent of Refugee
Affahrs and UNRWA with regards to projects fiunded in refiugee campvs.
PECDAR Project Management Office (one in West Bank and one in Gaza) shall
be responsible for final implementation of the approved projects from the steering
committee.
PECDAR financial department with full cooperation and coordination with
MOLG shall administrate all financial aspects, auditing, and overall reporting to IDA.
The targeting strategy, micro-project approval criteria, and procedures for
preparing, appraising, implementing and supervising micro-projects will be specified in
the Second Community Development Project revised Operational Manual.
Procurement and Disbursement
All projects will be procured in accordance with the World Bank Procurement
Guidelines(amended in 1996). All procurement procedures shall be specified in the
Revised Operational Manual.
A Special Account shall be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA for
the CDP II . All financial aspects of the fund will be maintained by the financial and
Administration Department in PECDAR.
The Finance and Administration Department shall be responsible for payment of
contractors, suppliers and other disbursements after endorsement by the PMO director,
contract administrator and the site engineer. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
appointed by PECDAR to audit the financial activities for the CDP II once a year will be
nominated. Technical and procurement reviews of micro-projects shall be undertaken
periodically, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
-47-



Monitoring and Evaluation
An integrated system for monitoring and evaluating shall be used for the project.
This shall include regular supervision visits to individual micro-projects by technical staff
(engineers) to ensure quality and timely execution of work . Full monthly and quarterly
report will be produced using PECDAR Management Information System to track
micro-projects through its life cycle. Beneficiary impact assessment of a sample of
micro-projects will be conducted periodically using the services of local consulting firms.
Information obtained from assessments will be fed back to policy makers(steering
committee) to permit revision and adjustment components or policy when necessary.
Financing Plan and schedule
The project shall be financed in the following way:
IDA                      US$8.0 million     53% of total project costs
National Contribution    US$ 1.5 million    10% of total project costs
Co-financing             US$ 5.5 million    37% of total project costs
The national contribution shall include contributions by communities (cash or in-kind)
toward the costs of micro-projects, a minimum of 10 percent.
Role of the World Bank
The World Bank shall be responsible for providing guidance to the Implementation
Agencies upon request and during regular supervision missions. PECDAR shall report to
the World Bank on a monthly basis for the first six months, and on a quarterly basis
thereafter. The World Bank's supervision and mid-term review would examine the
following: (i) effectiveness of the implementing agencies in attaining the CDP II
objectives; (ii) compliance with financial management, accounting and disbursement
operations, and procurement practices as stipulated in the Operational Manual; and (iii)
use of information and feedback from monitoring activities by project management.
Risks
The major risks to realizing the project objectives are capacity of local contractors to
deliver timely and good quality works, sudden price fluctuations of construction materials
and interruption in movement of laborers, materials and personnel due to Israeli closures
of West Bank and Gaza; lack of cooperation within ministries; and lack of transparency
by local governments in decision making surrounding micro-project identification and
prioritization and use of funds.
In order to respond to these potential risks the following risk minimization measures will
be taken: resources have been budgeted for providing training and supervision of
contractors; emphasis would be made to use locally available materials and laborers in
construction works; the role of ministries' would be clarified in the Operational Manual,
based on consultation with ministries. Greater emphasis on promotion, community
-48-



participation in micro-project prioritization and implementation, cost sharing by the
community are expected to increase transparency and public support for the CDP II.
Sustainability
Currently, PECDAR, with fund from the technical assistance allocated in the first CDP
project, is contracting a consultant to develop basic guidelines for the proper maintenance
and management of the projects after completion. The operation and maintenance of the
project will be the responsibility of the beneficiaries in full coordination with the MOLG
or the related Ministry or as applicable. Furthermore, projects which do not show the
requisite commitment to operate and maintain (either via O&M plans and clearances by
relevant sector ministries) will be excluded from funding.
PECDAR and MOLG through their LG units will be responsible for coordination with
PNA Ministries, Municipalities, village councils and communities to ensure harmony
and avoiding any violation to the environment and other important aspects of the social
development.
Implementation Schedule
The project shall be implemented in accordance with the attached implementation
schedule.
Requisite Agreement and Conditions
There shall be no conditions for project effectiveness. However it was agreed that the
Revised Operational Manual and the Implementation Agreement will be acceptable to the
World Bank before presentation of CDP II to the World Bank Board.
-49-



West Bank and Gaza
The Second Community Development Project
Responsibility Matrix for Projects outside Camos
Summary Description: Implemnentation of Infrastructure Micro-projects In Urban and Rural Areas
through Camp Service Conmnittees (LGC), Ministry of Local Governments (MLG), Line Ministeries
(LM), Steering Conmmittee (SC) and PECDAR (PEC)
Activity                                   Responsibility
LGC  I MLG   LM   I SC   PEC
Project Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Implementation
1        Micro-project Identification                     I      A       P      -    N
2        Preliminary Project Estimate and Screening       E       A      P      -
3        Preliminary Preparation, design and LMwings LGCs   E     P      -      -
3.1      Preliminary Preparation, design and LMwings in  P        N      -      -    E
cases LGC capacity does not exists.
4        Review Designs and LMwings            .                  E      -      P    R
5        Ensure consistency with overall LG strategy                     A      -
6        Final Technical, Economical and Social Appraisal         N      -      -    E
7        Final check for projects documents proposal              P      -      -    E
8        Approval of projects selection                   -       R      -      A    E
9        Preparation of Bid Documents                                           -    E
10       Bid Invitation                                          P       -      -    E
Bid Evaluation                                         P          _        E
1 I      Contract Award for contractor                    N      N       -      -    E
12       Work Authorization for contractor                N      N       -      -    E
13       Daily Site Supervision                           P      E                   E
14       Overall Microproject Supervision and Monitoring  P      P          -        E
Project Finance, Accounting, Monitoring and Reporting
15       Preparation of certificates and claims                                 -    E
16       Review of claims and payment Authorization       P      P       -      -    E
17       Authorization of cost variation                         N       -      -    E
18       Payments                                     :          N       -      -    E
19       Accounting                                       -      N          -        E
20       Technical, Financial, Progress Monthly Reporting         N         -        E
Responsibility Codes:
I = Initiates; A= Approves; E = Execute; N= Is Notified; R = Reviews; P = Provide Input
-50-



West Bank and Gaza
The Second Community Responsibility Matrix
Development Project for projects outside camps
Sunmmary Description: Implementation of Infrastructure Micro-projects In Urban and Rural Areas
through Local Government Units (LGCs), Ministry of Local Governments (MLG), Steering Committee
(SC), Line Ministries (LM) and PECDAR (PEC)
Activity                                   Responsibility
LGCs  MLG   RWA   LM    SC  PEC
Identification and Preparation of Capacity building interventions
21      Prepare a plan for capacity building needs at  I     E            -      A   P
LGC level, within allocated budget and time
22      Develop a detailed budget and program  for  -        E            -      -   E
Technical Assistance (studies, training, etc).
23      Prepare Terms of Reference (TOR)              -      I            -      -   E
24      Invite for competitive bids to conduct the studies   -  R         -      -   E
25      Review bids and Recommend Award               -      P            -      -   E
26      Award contracts                               N      R            -      -   E
27      Supervision and Monitoring                    -      E            -      -   E
Tasks during Preparation
28      Operations Manual Updates                     -    T              -      -   E
29      Project Preparation Plan and Schedule         -      P            -      -   E
30      Project Costing                              1       R       =   1            E
Tasks during Implementation
31      Beneficiary Impact Assessment                 P      P            P      -   E
32      TA on Operations and Maintenance              P      R            R      -   E
33      TA on Social Impact Assessment                P      P            -      -   E
34      TA on Technical Capacity Building             I      I            -      -   E
35      Development of Poverty Map                    P      P            -      -   E
Responsibility Codes:
I- Initiates; A= Approves; E = Execute; N= Is Notified; R = Reviews; P = Provide Input
-51-



West Bank and Gaza
The Second Community Development Project
Responsibility Matrix for proiects within Camos
Sunmmary Description: Implementation of Infrastructure Micro-projects In Urban and Rural Areas
through Camp Service Cornrnittees (CSC), Ministry of Local Governrments (MOLG), Steering
Committee (SC), UN Relief and Works Agency (RWA), Department of Refugee Affairs (DRA) and
PECDAR (PEC)
Activity                                   Responsibility
CSC I MLG  I RWA | DRA   SC   PEC
Pro]ect Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Implementation
I       Micro-project Identification                  I           P      A
2       Prelimninary Project Estimate and Screening   P    E              P
3       Prelirninary Preparation, design and drawings  E                 N           P
CSCs
3.1     Preliminary Preparation, design and drawings in  P               N            E
cases CSC capacity does not exists.                                     _
4       Review Designs and Drawings                         E             P           E
5       Ensure consistency with overall LG strategy         E
6       Final  Technical,  Economnical  and  Social                                  E
Appraisal
7       Final check for projects documents proposal                                  E
8       Approval of projects selection                            N      N      A
9       Preparation of Bid Documents                                                 E
10      Bid Invitation                                N                  N           E
Bid Evaluation                                                              _
11      Contract Award for contractor                 N           N      N           E
12      Work Authorizatioii for contractor            N      -                       E
13      Daily Site Supervision                        N                              E
14      Overall   Microproject   Supervision    and  N            N      N           E
Monitoring
Project Finance, Accounting, MIonitoring and Reporting
15      Preparation of certificates and claims                                       E
16      Review of claims and payment Authorization                                   E
17      Authorization of cost variation                    N             N           E
18      Payments                                           N             N
19      Accounting                                         N             N           E
20      Technical,   Financial,   Progress   Monthly        N            N           E
_   Reporting                                                           .
Responsibility Codes: I = Initiates; A= Approves; E = Execute; N= Is Notified; R = Reviews; P = Provide Input
-52-



West Bank and Gaza
The Second Conmmunity Development Project
Responsibility Matrix for projects withtin Canps
Summary Description: Implementation of Infrastructure Micro-projects In Urban and Rural Areas
through Camp Service Committees (CSC), Ministry of Local Governnments (MOLG), Steering
Committee (SC), UN Relief and Works Agency (RWA), Department of Refugee Affairs (DRA) and
PECDAR (PEC)
Activity                                   Responsibility
CSC_ MLG   RWA   DRA   SC  PEC
Project Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Inplementation
1       Micro-project Identification                  I            P     A
2       Preliminary Project Estimate and Screening    P    E              P
3       Preliminary Preparation, design and drawings  E                  N           P
CSCs
3.1     Preliminary Preparation, design and drawings in  P               N           E
cases CSC capacity does not exists.
4       Review Designs and Drawings                         E             p           E
5       Ensure consistency with overall LG strategy         E
6       Final  Technical,  Economical  and  Social                                   E
I_____L__Appraisal
7       Final check for projects documents proposal                                  E
8       Approval of projects selection                             N     N      A
9       Prepa-ation of Bid Documents                                                  E
10      Bid Invitation                                N                  N           E
Bid Evaluation
1I      Contract Award for contractor                 N           N      N           E
12      Work Authorization for contractor             N                              E
13      Daily Site Supervision                        N                              E
14      Overall   Microproject   Supervision    and  N            N      N           E
Monitoring                                                                  _
Project Finance, Accounting, Monitoring and Reporting
15      Preparation of certificates and claims                                       E
16      Review of claims and payment Authorization                                   E
17      Authorization of cost variation                    N             N           E
18      Payments                                           N             N
19      Accounting                                         N             N           E
20      Technical,   Financial,   Progress   Monthly        N            N           E
Reporting
Responsibility Codes:
I = Initiates; A= Approves; E = Execute; N= Is Notified; R = Reviews; P = Provide Input
-53-



4BB,                                                                      I //\;~'~_,\~  '<,)<JYWEST BANK
and
'' -_        t              at1GAZA
K  li g <\           /       n     d                   5   '. s      }        _  ;Yo'b d- .                AIRPORTS / AIRFIELDS
j- OR HIGHWAYS
TW'O OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
RAILROADS
il.uIkar-  -Anopl    P                                                               BUILT-UP AREAS
,1a| i)g d> * w < {' Tommn,,/ ,  j1 0 UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
k  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
Nablus          -i                                       ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
m     NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
*           L-J ~~~ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
JERUSALEM CITY LlMIT; UNILATERALLY
*W ti-    -- s   -  X       t. X     f       .EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967,
THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
-Led o.                                  J ;   AsIlel    . - ,    0 *            - t         ;        -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A. !   odtr A                               W   E :$  T       .,        ^         ^  
t    + r XSKEL         -- 2    5-5 B  A  N  K                    *         iO       !s          z                cPe     ,    g     _
t S    ?  S            1  r   \       fl       |t-          3g         => rss~~~~~~~~~~MEDITE5EVANEA    ip;        ;
S                                                                 33   te~~a~lb
Loo               -f                                               - .   , d         f / Jdo
SPS
.5RAEs
-D                                                                                    , - e * ,  -  t  nr Rse  s  lo   lC   +$  < XD  rAia4h  MEDITERRANEAN
D    D                 ~~~~SEA
Hebo                                       f                               K 
t  Hebr9   bLESo  5                                x                 ~~~~~~G A Z A /         b
i-               - <  /   J,   0  L KISRAEL
E4/shwjnonDhdOl dsofnroworoyedo-me // / <,/ 0  MO h \ 5    B'B 
1 aso ,/', B*,&/v    \ asad0   ssss   usso    r /g/    3ss0                 A,,\Sody,,j4            E   + -  It Yornus \



