                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 25968

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-26044; COFN-04260)

                                           ON A

                                   LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                   WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                            FOR

                  THE SECOND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                        June 18, 2003




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Group
Middle East and North Africa region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 2003)

                              Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel
                                       1NIS = US$ 0.22
                                      US$ 1 = 4.40

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 to   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BIA      Beneficiary Impact Assessment
CDP      Community Development Project
CDPII    Second Community Development Project
DORA     Department of Refugee Affairs
EEGP     Emergency Employment Generation Program
EIB      European Investment Bank
EHRP     Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      Internation Development Bank
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICDP     Integrated Community Development Project
IAs      Implementing Agencies
LGU      Local Development Association
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOLG     Ministry of Local Government
NCB      National Competative Bidding
NGO      Non Government Organization
OPEC     Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PA       Palestinian Authority
PECDAR   Palestinian Economic Council for Developemnt and Reconstruction
PCD      Project Concept Docuemnt
PDS      Project Document System
PLO      Palestine Liberation Organization
QAG      Quality at Entry
SWEMP    Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project
UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WBG      West Bank and Gaza



                            Vice President:      Jean Louis Sarbib
               Country Manager/Director:         Nigel Roberts
                 Sector Manager/Director:        Letitia Obeng
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Kanthan Shankar

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                   SECOND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P058684                                                      Project Name: GZ-COMMUNITY DEV. II
Team Leader: Kanthan Shankar                                             TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 18, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: GZ-COMMUNITY DEV. II                                     L/C/TF Number: TF-26044; COFN-04260
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (88%); Sub-national government
                            administration (10%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Social risk coping (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (P); Conflict prevention and
                            post-conflict reconstruction (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Social
                            risk reduction (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/21/1998                                        Effective: 04/30/1999              04/30/1999
   Appraisal:    01/25/1999                                            MTR: 02/02/2001                02/15/2001
    Approval:    03/10/1999                                         Closing: 10/31/2002               10/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Palestinian Liberation Organization for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority/
                                           Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR)
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Local Government (MOLG), Department of Refugee Affairs (DORA)

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jean-Louis Sarbib                                   Kemal Dervis
Country Director:          Nigel Roberts                                       Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Petros Aklilu                                       Sonia Hammam
Team Leader at ICR:        Kanthan Shankar                                     Kingsley O. Robotham
ICR Primary Author(s): Kanthan Shankar; Husam Abu
                           Dagga; Hisham Labadi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

 3.1 Original Objective:
 The objective of the Second Community Development Project (CDP II) was to rehabilitate
 community infrastructure through labor-intensive microprojects, while improving their targeting
 towards poor and marginalized areas, including refugee camps. The objective responded to the
 need identified in the Palestinian Development Plan the 1999-2003 which called for investments
 into physical infrastructure targeted at social sectors. The objective also responded to the Bank's
 strategy for West Bank and Gaza which stressed the need for increased job opportunities through
 an equitable development process. Finally, the objective was based on lessons learned from it's
 successful predecessor, the first Community Development Project (CDP I).

 3.2 Revised Objective:
 The project objectives were not revised.

 3.3 Original Components:

                             Component:                                      Cost
 Civil Works ­ Infrastructure Improvements                                 $13,500,000
 Technical Assistance ­ capacity building for LGUs/contractors                $600,000
 Project Management Support                                                   $900,000
 Total                                                                     $15,000,000

The project components were similar to CDP I with the main portion of funds (90%) targeted at
labor intensive civil works. The large portion allocated to infrastructure rehabilitation was justified
due to the great need that existed in villages and small municipalities for building their capital stock
and creating local employment. The experience gained by the implementing agencies under the
CDP I was also a justification for continuing with a tried and tested model in CDP II.

 3.4 Revised Components:
 When the project became effective in late 1999, only US$8 million (IDA) of the total US$15
 million project costs had been identified. Subsequently, the OPEC Fund and the EIB joined the
 program by providing parallel financing of US$8 million and 10 million Euro, respectively. With
 the onset of the Intifada, however, EIB suspended funding of its WBG programs. Nevertheless,
 some US$20 million of financing was disbursed towards the overall CDP II project ­ US$5
 million over cofinancing estimates during project design. Consequently, the amount of funding
 available to the components changed with over 90% of the additional funding allocated towards
 civil works. The additional funding and focus towards physical work responded to needs for
 economic activities and employment generation in poor and marginalized communities.

 3.5 Quality at Entry:
  The quality of entry is rated satisfactory. The project responded to a clearly identified need for
 infrastructure rehabilitation in poor and marginalized areas through a beneficiary assessment
 conducted on CDP I. Due to the replicative nature of the project, the preparation time from
 identification to Board was less than six months. Consequently, project preparation costs were
 less than US$50,000. The first batch of microprojects were identified, appraised and readied for


                                                  - 2 -

implementation even before the project was declared effective. The successful completion of
CDP II on schedule under the most trying conditions is evidence of the quality of project
preparatory activities.   CDP II was the first project in MNA to develop an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for a community-driven development (CDD) project and since then, has
been replicated in other similar programs.        Finally, risks were realistically identified during
preparation. For example, adequate budgets for Local Government Units (LGUs) for Operation
and Maintenance (O&M) was rated high risk and has now turned out to one of the major issues
affecting sustainability.

The project was subjected to QAGs "quality at entry" review and the nine categories for which it
was reviewed, the ratings ranged from "satisfactory" to "highly satisfactory" with an overall
"satisfactory" rating. The poverty focus, social aspects, and readiness for implementation earned
the project a "highly satisfactory" rating. QAG ratings have been justified by the continued
poverty focus, the adaptability of the design and completion of the project on schedule.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR concludes that CDPII has met its objectives satisfactorily. The basis for this conclusion
can be explained through the following outcomes:
a)   improved access by poor communities to services through the rehabilitation/reconstruction of
     community assets and basic infrastructure;
b)   responsiveness to community priorities;
c)   targeting of the poor and marginalized communities; and
d)   beneficiary satisfaction with project results and services.

It should also be noted that the project was adaptable to conditions of the Intifada and continued
to be relevant during the socio-political unrest. The project had limited impact on employment
creation and delays in implementing the technical assistance component reduced the institutional
capacity building impact.

Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Protection of Community Assets: About 200 infrastructure
projects ­ road rehabilitation, water and sanitation systems, school and classroom upgrading and
construction ­ were completed, well above the initially envisioned 125 infrastructure
microprojects. While the funding for subprojects increased due to parallel financing received from
EIB and the OPEC Fund, the number of subprojects completed was still surpassed a proportional
estimate of 168 subprojects. About one million people benefited through these projects. While
internal   road    rehabilitation    projects  were    important   prior   to    the   Intifada   the
rehabilitation/upgrading of access and link roads during the Intifada became even more critical
and proved to be the only lifeline for inter-community travel and commerce.

Responsiveness to Community Needs: A beneficiary needs assessment was conducted as part
of the conclusion of CDP I and while preparing the follow-on CDP II. When reviewing the
projects by sector, it appears that for the most part the project responded to community needs,
especially in meeting their desire for road projects. While roads were a high priority from the
beginning, the Intifada increased this need. Education was the second highest priority and again



                                                 - 3 -

this correlated with projects funded under CDP II. While water supply and sanitation is shown as
a third priority, CDP II did not focus on this sector since other donors were already involved and
licenses to dig wells were difficult to obtain. The response of CDP II to a project in Quttana
highlights the responsiveness to community needs. The beneficiaries were very complimentary of
the speed and efficiency shown by the Implementing Agencies (IAs) in rehabilitating the main
water distribution lines serving the village which had been badly damaged during the conflict.


                                   Sub-project Distribution Verses Community Priorities


   60


   50


   40


   30


   20


   10


    0


     Roads  Water     Water    Centers     Centers                                     Others
                                                     Facilities Electricity  Telephone
                 Waste                                                                           Local communities priorities
                                     Health
                      Community             Education                                            Actual project distribution by Sector




Impact of Intifada Resulting in Changes in Local Priorities
According to community surveys undertaken by the University of Geneva, local priorities changed
during the Intifada. When respondents were asked what was important to them during the social
and political turmoil, humanitarian aid, including food and employment generation, surpassed
infrastructure rehabilitation as the top priority.                                  Many of these requests were met through
emergency programs. However, CDP II also observed a change in project priorities. Labor
intensive works such as classroom construction in the West Bank and road rehabilitation in Gaza
using locally manufactured interlocking tiles became the most requested projects.

Poverty Targeting: One of the lessons learned from CDP I was that systemized targeting is
required to prioritize and meet the needs of the poorest communities. CDP II required the
preparation of a poverty map for West Bank and Gaza. This was the first project in which the
Bank aimed to prioritize interventions based on poverty. The poverty map was developed by the
Palestinian Center Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) using public expenditure reviews conducted in
1997. The resulting poverty report and maps showed that the northern West Bank (Jenin and
surrounding districts), southern West Bank (Hebron and surrounding areas) and the refugee
camps had the greatest concentrations of poor people (defined as people earning less than US$2
per day). In Gaza, the refugee camps and the northern and southern areas were the poorest.



                                                                           - 4 -

Most of the locations of projects selected prior to the Intifada correlated well with the poverty
map. However, the analysis and definition of `poor area' was brought into question during the
Intifada when unemployment rates in the Palestinian territories jumped from 20 percent to 60
percent. The poverty map prepared prior to the Intifada, therefore, lost some of its relevance.

Beneficiary Satisfaction with Services Provided: The response to CDP II during and following
implementation has been uniformly positive, as illustrated through three beneficiary impact
assessments and participatory workshops conducted during the life of the project. The table
below provides a sample of benefits as described by communities.

                                         Beneficiary Feedback
    Sector                           Perceived Benefits by Community Members
Roads          · Easier access to clinics, schools and markets since unpaved roads are difficult to
                  travel on during the wet winter months.
               · Cleaner, paved streets benefit communities overall, though those living near once
                  dusty streets benefit the most.
               · Women's access to primary health care centers and more distant clinics and hospitals
                  has been facilitated.
               · Travel for girls/women to schools/colleges/jobs has been eased and the number of
                  women attending colleges and universities has increased.
               · Ease of movement between villages increases social interaction.
               · Most important of all ­ inter-village roads provide alternate routes for travel during
                  the frequent closure and destruction of main access roads.
Water and      l Running water reduces time spent collecting water and also increases personal
Sanitation        hygiene. Some people mentioned that children can now be bathed more frequently than
                  the normal 7-10 day intervals.
               l Women do not need to walk at night to collect water.
               l Improving the quality of well and spring water has reduced cross-contamination of
                  water and will reduce waterborne diseases.
               l There has been a reduction in uncontrolled disposal of sewage sludge from tankers
                  due to the new sewer connections. Some sewage tanker drivers used to empty their
                  loads in agricultural lots.
Multi-purpose  l Multi-purpose centers provide space for social services, especially health care and
Centers           kindergartens, in small villages.
               l Centers provide a forum for local government units to conduct public meetings and
                  other community business.
               l In Salfeet, the multi-purpose centers include services for handicapped people.
Schools and    l New facilities are healthier and conducive to studying.
Additional     l Less crowded classrooms.
Classrooms     l Provides a saving for the schools since they do not have to rent additional classrooms.
               l Reduces the need for classes to be scheduled in shifts.
               l Increases educational services and activities since libraries and game rooms are
                  included.
               l Improves hygiene among school children by providing them access to separate and
                  rehabilitated restroom facilities. For example, at one school more than 700 students
                  shared four restrooms while 35 teachers shared another.




                                                  - 5 -

Relevance of the Project Before and During the Intifada: CDP II was one of the few Bank-funded
projects that was able to absorb the shocks of the Intifada and continue to implement and maintain
the relevance of the project's original development objectives. The Intifada resulted in a flood of
emergency employment generation schemes, including a series of Bank-funded projects.
Nevertheless, due to the success of CDP II is implementation, the Bank viewed the project as one
of its few medium-term development program and consequently, has financed a follow-up project
called the Integrated Community Development Project (ICDP) based on a similar design.

4.2 Outputs by components:
 1. Infrastructure Improvements in poor communities: This output has been rated "highly
 satisfactory". About 200 microprojects were implemented against 125 planned during project
 appraisal.

 Road rehabilitation comprised the majority share (52%) of microprojects funded through CDP
 II, even though the list of possible projects included social sector projects in health and
 education. Nearly 325 km of roads were rehabilitated and reconstructed under the project.
 There were many underlying reasons for this focus on road rehabilitation and the following
 provide a rationale for their selection for implementation:

 · The health, education and power sectors are addressed at the national level through line
     ministries. However, there is no national road authority with dedicated funding, and this has
     a particularly negative impact on villages and small municipalities. In some cases roads have
     not been rehabilitated since the British mandate period over sixty years back.
 · CDP II was the first Bank-financed project in WBG to fund activities in refugee camps.
     However, its interventions did not include projects in the health and education sectors, as
     these activities fell under the mandate of the United Nation Works and Relief Agency
     (UNWRA). CDP II projects, therefore, were selected to supplement UNWRA's work, and
     road rehabilitation was often the obvious choice.
 · While access to villages and small municipalities was challenging due to roadblocks even
     before the Intifada, it became increasingly difficult during the crisis. Most of the main roads
     have been blocked and the only way to move between villages and towns has been via village
     access roads which has led to a dramatic rise in community requests for such roads. As one
     Palestinian taxi driver said while driving on a CDP II-funded access road linking the villages
     of Abween and Aroura, "These link roads are like a divine intervention for us". Eight
     villages and 20,000 people benefitted from this particular sub-project.
 · In Gaza, road rehabilitation projects were often more labor intensive than those in the West
     Bank. Since asphalt was difficult to obtain from Israel, inter-locking tiles were used for road
     reconstruction. These tiles are manufactured locally, thus providing additional employment
     and income generation serving to dampen the impacts of WBG closure periods (in 2001
     alone, Gaza was closed for more than 200 days).




                                                 - 6 -

               Developing Jouron Road - Jabalia Camp, Gaza (before and after)

School Rehabilitation Projects accounted for 25 percent of all CDP II-funded projects. Though
most school and classroom building took place in the West Bank, this complemented UNWRA's
funding of all schools in refugee camps in Gaza. Furthermore, other Bank funded projects such
as the Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP), funded many schools both in Gaza and
the West Bank. Also, in the West Bank, village councils played a more prominent role than the
line ministry in providing educational facilities, and the limited budget available from the central
government thus resulted in frequent requests for funding of school rehabilitation projects. In
the West Bank alone, more than 235 classrooms were constructed.




                     Co-educational school in Khirbet Barta'a ­ Jenin area

The water and sanitation sector comprised 8 percent of the projects implemented through CDP
II. Donor and other Bank programs in the water sector and difficulties in obtaining permits for
digging wells resulted in requests for projects that focussed on upgrading water distribution and
sewage networks. Approximately 10 kilometers of water lines and 23 kilometers of sewage lines
were rehabilitated through the project. Beneficiary surveys have shown that these projects have
contributed significantly to improved environmental conditions and human health, particularly in
the densely populated areas of Gaza where waterborne diseases are the main cause of mortality
and morbidity among children under five years of age. Furthermore, road projects, particularly
in Gaza, have water supply and sanitation components as part of an overall neighborhood
development program.       Feedback from men and women at the Al Shaaf area in Gaza
"Establishing sewage lines in our community made fundamental changes to our daily life. Our



                                                - 7 -

 houses are cleaner, children can play safely in the streets, our household expenditures
 decreased due reduced expenditures for cleaning septic tanks".

Two health sector projects were implemented in the West Bank in Ramallah and Deir Razeh
village. The reason for the relatively low requests for health centers was partly due to such
requests being addressed through UNWRA in all refugee camps. Furthermore, the Bank and
donors have addressed this sector through other programs such as the EHRP and other
Emergency health projects. Additionally, as a condition of project selection, communities needed
to obtain commitment from the Ministry of Health to staff and equip the centers and this was
difficult to obtain due to the dire financial situation of most ministries. Finally, clinics and
hospitals in the West Bank and Gaza tend to be funded by bilateral donors and NGOs such as
CARE and Save the Children and as such, communities did not seek funding from CDP II.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that few of the multi-purpose centers constructed through CDP
II provided basic health services.

2. Employment Generation: This output is rated "satisfactory". While CDP II generated over
250,000 person days of employment, the average employment created over the life of the project
was 20 percent, less than the original estimate of 25 percent. Considering that one of the
project's objectives was employment generation through labor intensive sub-projects, the
implementation of a large number of non-labor-intensive road projects pushed down employment
generation averages. It should be noted that prior to Intifada, most roads were rehabilitated with
heavy equipment. During the Intifada, however, more labor intensive interlocking tile road
projects were implemented in Gaza. Nevertheless, CDP II had limited impact on employment
creation.

                                     Employment Generated by Project Type



                Waste Water



   Roads including sidewalks




     Roads including Sewage



                      Roads




             Retaining walls



          Schools and clinics




             Public buildings



                             0    5   10   15   20     25    30      35   40   45
                                                                                %of employment generation



3. Capacity Building : This output is rated "satisfactory" (Please refer to section 4.5)




                                                      - 8 -

4. Increase in Economic Activity: This output is rated "satisfactory". While the Intifada and the
resulting impact of closures devastated the Palestinian economy, CDP II projects were one of the
few interventions that brought much needed relief to small villages and municipalities. While the
economic impact was not significant, it generated local employment and assisted suppliers.

Other outputs achieved by the project are described below:
5. Community Contribution to Project Costs: This output is rated "satisfactory". While the
requirement for community contribution to project costs was a minimum of 10%, the dire
economic situation during the Intifada made it very difficult for IAs to continue to require cash
contributions. Nevertheless, it is remarkable that overall, the project was able to mobilize over
USD1 million in counterpart contributions averaging about 6% for each project. Approximately
8% community contributions were recorded for IDA component and less for OPEC and EIB
funded projects. As part of the Mid-term Review (MTR), due to the severe economic situation
and high unemployment rates averaging 50%, mandatory contributions were suspended.

6. Impact on Gender: This output is rated "satisfactory". One of the main objectives of the
project was to target the poor and marginalized. Beneficiary Impact Assessments (BIAs) in the
past had revealed that women fall into the marginalized category. Hence, under CDP II, girls'
schools in particular were targeted for rehabilitation and improvement. Nearly 40% of all schools
rehabilitated under CDP II were girls and co-educational schools.             Furthermore, even the
economic infrastructure ­ mainly roads ­ benefitted women through greater access to health
centers, improved hygiene conditions for their children and opportunities to participate in social
activities through travel.      Women and girls also benefitted through training programs ­ in
particular programs on health and environment, motherhood and child care. The training facility
for women constructed in Gaza also provided training programs in sewing and curtain design
through the Ministry of Social Affairs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Since CDP II consists of small demand driven works, no detailed economic analysis could be
taken ex-ante. However under CDP I, a cost effectiveness model was developed and used with
the objective of establishing cost ratios as one of the criteria for project selection. One indicator
which shows that projects were cost effective is the higher number of projects per unit cost
(USD100,000 per project) as compared to estimates made during appraisal (USD 120,000 per
project). Details of the model are provided in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The output is rated "satisfactory". The capacity built within PECDAR during the implementation
of CDP I was consolidated under CDP II. In addition, the project built capacity within the other
two partnering implementation agencies ­ Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) and
Department of Refugee Affairs (DORA). In particular, DORA coordinated the submission of
project proposals from refugee camps and also worked closely with UNWRA to prevent
duplication of requests. In the CDP I, one of the shortcomings identified was the lack of
cooperation between PECDAR and the line ministries. CDP II provided the opportunity for



                                                 - 9 -

PECDAR, MOLG and DORA to work together to implement the program. The project provided
the three agencies the opportunity to solidify their cooperation through an implementation
agreement and responsibility matrix. The restrictions in movement made regular meetings among
the implementing agencies challenging. In this regard, the installation of internet facilities to
DORA through the project has been of major assistance. The project, for the first time, provided
opportunities for the Local Government Units (LGUs), in particular village councils and camp
services committees to assess their needs, develop proposals, seek funding and implement
projects. The restrictions in movement and closures during the Intifada enhanced the role of the
local government units. Projects were implemented using simplified procurement procedures
including direct contracting implemented directly through LGUs. While these projects built the
capacity of the LGUs, they also assisted suppliers and were a source of local employment.

While the capacity building program through training workshops was considerably delayed, the
achievement of PECDAR in providing a series of demand-driven training courses for LGUs was
very impressive. There were 67 training workshops held in the West Bank and Gaza which
benefited over 1160 participants. Due to movement restrictions, two regional training centers
were established to conduct regular training courses. Local universities and consulting firms were
contracted to provide training in project management, public administration, financial and
procurement management and computer skills. Training programs also targeted gender and
women - training courses ranged from mother and child care to sewing and curtain design.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The start of the intifada in September 2000 is seen as the major factor impacting project
implementation. Communities and implementing agencies adapted themselves rather quickly to
the new environment, although, the following factors did impact on the project:

Reduction in Donor Financing: While approximately USD18 million of parallel financing was
made available shortly after project effectiveness, EIB suspended funding of the project due to the
Intifada after disbursing only USD3 million of the total loan amount of over USD10 million.

Impact on Suppliers and Contractors: The frequent closures experienced from the start of the
Intifada severely restricted movement of construction materials and labor. The resulting reduced
inventories and cash flows had a disproportionate effect on small contractors, many of whom
were unable to sustain their operations. Over 23 projects in Gaza were temporarily stopped due
to contractors inability to fulfill their obligations and demanding compensation/price revisions
from the implementing agencies. However, disputs were solved amicably through negotiations
with the implementing agencies. Also, many small suppliers were forced out of business due to
contractors inability to pay their bills and shortage of inventory during sustained periods of
closure, particularly in Gaza which has only one entry point for the supply of materials.

Increase in Poverty Rates and Related Impacts: The dramatic increase in poverty rates from
20% to 60% during the Intifada made it difficult to enforce community contributions of 10%
(ranging from USD5000 to USD15,000) as a prerequisite for project selection. Hence,
community ownership through participation in project costs, a requirement institutionalized under



                                                     - 10 -

CDP I, was likely to be impacted. Furthermore the high poverty rates also severely inhibited the
ability of the communities to sustain their projects in the medium term.

Impact on Institutions: Restrictions on movement made organizing meetings between the three
implementing agencies very difficult. For example: the project coordinator in MOLG was unable
to leave or receive anyone in Nablus for four months due to closures. Hence the objective of
strengthening the partnership between PECDAR, MOLG and DORA was to some extent
compromised. However, on the positive side, the closures and difficulties in movement resulted
in the IAs decentralizing decision making to the LGUs and thereby providing greater opportunity
for village councils to implement projects using local labor and materials.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Considering the socio-economic context under which most of the project was implemented, there
was very little government control on the outcome of the project. Furthermore, movement
restrictions within agencies resulted in the government/line ministries transferring responsibilities
to LGUs. Nevertheless, the government, and in particular MOF should be given credit for
continuing to service the loan and in some cases contributing on behalf of communities who had
difficulties in meeting their financial obligation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The IAs could have been better planned and implemented the capacity building component earlier
in the project to maximize institutional development impact. However, PECDAR did successfully
launch a demand driven training program during the last eight months of the project. The IAs
were initially slow to respond to contractor disputes due to price escalations and non-availability
of materials due to the Intifada resulting in stoppage of 23 projects during early 2001. On the
positive side, the IAs adapted well to the prevailing situation on the ground. PECDAR was able
to use its local offices in the districts to conduct the supervision of the works and also used LGUs
through direct contracting methods. PECDAR also rented houses close to its main offices so that
staff could stay the whole week without worrying about the travel restrictions and closures. The
financing of internet connections for DORA offices in Ramallah helped in keeping the three IAs
connected.

5.4 Costs and financing:
When CDPII was presented to the Board, the cost of the project was USD15 million, of which
only USD8 million from the Bank had been identified. The success of the first CDP attracted
parallel financing offers from both OPEC and EIB. Hence, by the time the project became
effective there was commitments of USD8 million from OPEC and 10 million euros from EIB.
Unfortunately, due to the socio-political unrest, EIB suspended all its operations after disbursing
about 3.5 million euros. The OPEC Fund has disbursed 90% of its commitment and is scheduled
to close in December 2003.




                                                    - 11 -

                                 Component Disbursements at Project Closure

          Component                                                                Disbursements
            Civil Works ­ Infrastructure Improvements                               $18,160,000
            Technical Assistance ­ capacity building                                $    300,000
            Project Management Support                                              $ 1,190,000
            Counterpart contribution                                                $ 1,165,283
            Total                                                                   $20,815,283



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated "unlikely". Under the present sociopolitical conditions
and high poverty rates, the sustainability of completed projects with particular reference to
operation and maintenance is questionable due to severe budget constraints faced by the central
government, municipalities and village councils. While donor programs continue to provide
budget support to municipalities to sustain their operations, it is unlikely they will be continued in
the long term. However, continuation of donor funding for similar projects is highly likely. The
Bank is already financing a follow-up project ­ the ICDP which is under implementation.
Furthermore, nearly USD100 million of donor funded projects are under various stages of
implementation as indicated in the table below.

                        Donor                                      Amount
 Bank - ICDP                                                  USD 10 million
 France - Community Development Project                       7 Million Euro
 USAID-Community Services Program                             USD 75 million
 Islamic Development Bank ­ Community Projects                USD 19 million
 Germany KFW ­ Employment Generation Program                  USD 7.4 million
 CIDA- Employment Generation Program                          USD 3 million
 Arab Fund- Community Development Project                     USD 10 million
 DFID ­Community Development Project                          USD 2.0 million



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While continuation of community development projects is assured in the short-term through
donor financing, the likelihood of government taking over the funding of similar programs is
unlikely under the current sociopolitical climate. Nevertheless, capacity is being built within the
government to prepare and implement community development projects. If, in the future, the
government establishes its own social programs, then capacity would exist in-house in order to
carry out the implementation of such program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance under this category is considered "satisfactory". The Bank recognized and
responded to an urgent need form the client under a difficult environment (border closures) and


                                                  - 12 -

prepared the project in less than 6 months. Furthermore the total cost for project preparation
from identification through Board was less than USD50,000. The project was one of the first to
promote the use of poverty maps to target interventions in the West Bank and Gaza. The Bank
was also able to partner with UNWRA to address the needs of refugee camps which had
previously been left out of Bank lending operations.

7.2 Supervision:
The rating of Bank supervision is considered "satisfactory". The presence of the country office
staff in both the West Bank and Gaza ensured consistent supervision of the project in the field.
The close working relationship built through the long association with the implementing agencies
under the previous Holst and CDP I projects, greatly enhanced follow-up and constructive
feedback between the client and the Bank. The Bank team was also seen as very responsive in
times of crisis - in particular the advice and facilitation provided during the dispute between
PECDAR and contractors in Gaza which resulted in an amiable solution. The Bank team also
pursued a good monitoring and evaluation strategy - there were regular assessments - both
technical (1 technical assessment including progress on the (EMP) and social (3 beneficiary
surveys) to gauge community responses to the project. Lessons learnt were incorporated into
follow-up ICDP projects.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank performance is judged "satisfactory". The project was prepared quickly, adapted well to
the sociopolitical crisis due to the flexibility in its design and closed on schedule after meeting its
objectives. The Bank's effort in preparation and supervision have been both time and cost
efficient. The total budget for preparation and supervision of the project was around
USD300,000. The Bank has maintained a good working relationship with the client.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance is rated as "satisfactory". Following the success of CDP I, the
Government used its consultations with the Bank's President to request an immediate follow-up
project. The Government and in particular the Ministry of Local Government, DORA and the
MOF played a major role in facilitating the rapid preparation, appraisal and negotiations of the
project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance is judged "satisfactory". The project was implemented without
any suspension or major delays even though the Government was under severe political and
financial crisis. MOF continued to make payments on service charges and ensured that the
Government's financial obligations were met.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance is rated "highly satisfactory". An area of concern under
CDP I was the limited cooperation between MOLG - the line agency responsible for
municipalities and villages and PECDAR. However, under CDP II, three agencies - PECDAR,
MOLG and DORA have worked very well together from preparation through implementation.
This cooperation was institutionalized through an implementation agreement and responsibility
matrix signed by the heads of all three organizations. The division of responsibilities and good



                                                  - 13 -

working and personal relationships between the project coordinators of the three implementing
agencies ensured smooth project implementation. Monthly portfolio meetings were held where
new projects and implementation of on-going projects were discussed. Monthly progress reports
were a norm throughout project implementation and all independent financial audits conducted on
CDP II have given PECDAR a clean bill of health. The implementing agencies were also able to
adapt to the Intifada and continued to perform under very trying circumstances. For example:
PECDAR provided lodging for their staff close the office in order to reduce the uncertainty of
travelling daily from their homes.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall rating of the borrower's performance is "highly satisfactory" based on its ability to
work well, implement the project on schedule, meet and in some cases surpass performance
indicators. All these achievements were accomplished under the worst possible sociopolitical
conditions.

8. Lessons Learned

1. Flexibility in Design: Interventions designed in a post-conflict/in-conflict area should have a
certain amount of flexibility in design in order to absorb shocks due to the conflict and still be
relevant in meeting the projects development objective. Furthermore, having the ability to fine
tune the design to respond to rapid changes on the ground ­ such as removing the requirement for
community cash contributions when the poverty rates had risen over 50% - ensured that the
poorest, who the project was designed to serve, were not the ones left out due to stringent
requirements. Based on this lesson, the follow-up project, ICDP, continues with a flexible
demand-driven design.

2. Development Objective: It is important to have a clearly focused development objective.
Projects which have multiple objectives and are very broad tend to make monitoring and
measurement of achievements very difficult. Furthermore, in a post-conflict situation there are
multiple priorities and a hunger for quick results. There is a propensity to design projects that
encompass both short-term emergency priorities as well as long-term development. Hence under
ICDP, the project design has one development objective and does not address short-term
emergency impacts.

3. Targeting Strategy:     Limited funding coupled with huge needs requires a well designed
targeting strategy. The development and use of the poverty map for identifying project areas
assisted the IAs to target the resources for maximum impact. Moreover, the poverty map and
targeting strategy provided the IAs with a clear and transparent rationale for project selection and
reduced concerns over favoritism in project selection.

4. Attracting Cofinancing: Establishing and maintaining a successful and transparent partnership
with donors contributed significantly in leveraging high amounts of cofinancing for CDP II. The
OPEC fund had a very successful experience in parallel financing CDP I and hence was eager to
repeat the partnership. EIB had a successful working relationship with the Bank on the Solid
Waste Management Project (SWEMP) and looks forward to working together on additional
interventions.



                                               - 14 -

 5. Decentralization: Having a local and decentralized presence both within the implementing and
 donor agencies contributes to efficiency and empowerment, particularly in a conflict environment.
 The full closures and movement restrictions forced the IAs to rethink their mostly centralized
 approach to project management. Similarly, having the presence of Bank country offices in both
 West Bank and Gaza with local project coordinators, greatly enhanced the supervision and
 advisory role provided by the Bank to the client.

 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:



         PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
    PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL
          FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
               RECONSTRUCTION
                   (PECDAR)


Mr. Kanthan Shanker                                                      Date: 6/2/2003
Task Manager                                                             Ref. : PMO-A/305/03
West Bank & Gaza
The World Bank

                        Subject: Second Community Development Project
                     CDPII, Implementation Completion Report (TF 26044)


 Dear Kanthan,

 Following the completion of all activities of the Second Community Development Project
 (CDPII) and discussion held to present PECDAR's input and comments in preparation of the
 Implementation Completion Report (ICR), this is first to express our great grateful and
 appreciation to yourself and to the World Bank resident team, who have participated in the
 implementation of the CDPII for their commendable work and assistance during the
 implementation of this program.
 Micro-projects were implemented in accordance with the Guidelines and responsibility matrix
 agreed upon in the project documents, the community contribution in identification of their
 priorities and needs, and the cash or labor contribution to the cost of microprojects have built
 ownership on the ground and self-confidance of the community. Moreover it has increased the
 likelihood that the project could be maintained and sustained in long term. Most of the projects
 have always reflected the most urgent needs and priorities of the communities.

 A socio ­ economic impact assessment on selected microprojects has been conducted by a
 socio-economic expert. The assessment aimed to evaluate the socio-economic impact of the micro
 projects on the communities, to find out how the beneficiary communities participated in the



                                               - 15 -

different phases of the projects; whether they were satisfied with the micro-projects and the
institutional impact of the micro projects on their local government units and other local
institutions. Special attention was given so that the samples represent the different sectors and
geographical areas of the microprojects.

The flexibility and wide sector targeting the strategy of the CDP II allowed the beneficiaries to
gain economic and social development. The sectors covered the implementation of more than
200 micro-projects in the education, health care, water and wastewater, roads and other
construction projects. The implementation of the micro-projects was in a short time horizon, thus
ensuring the commitment of the donor countries and the Palestinian National Authority towards
alleviating poverty and economic situation in the current period.

In general, Beneficiaries are satisfied with the positive impact of microprojects on their living
conditions. Micro-projects which were tendered and contracted by PECDAR had high
involvement of the LGU's during implementation. The LGU's were informed about strategy and
procedures of the project and were directly involved in procurement of goods, works, and
services especially for microprojects implemented under direct hire procedure, however, the
finding shows weakness in informing and involvement of the community in project.
Through the finance of $8 million US Dollars from IDA, $8 million from OPEC and about $3
million from EIB. It was possible to create short and long-term job opportunities. An average of
25% labor content was observed as originally envisioned during the design of the project.

The designs of the CDPII procedure come from prior experience gained through CDPI program.
It has provided opportunities for more interactions between beneficiaries and the implementing
agency and closer coordination among the beneficiaries themselves and involved parties during
the different stages of microprojects implementation.

The approval of funding of the Integrated Community Development Project (ICDP) and the
Employment Generation for Social Development (EGSD) is a good indicator for the success of
the CDPII program and all parties involved in the appraisal, implementation, and monitoring of
the activities. Other donors have showed interest in co-financing to this program.

I am confident that the second community development project has reached its target. In our
view, the World Bank, Ministry of Local Government Department of Refugee Camp (Dora),
benefited Local Government Units (LGU's) were co-operative and showed magnificent interest in
implementing the program to their best, which in turn resulted to a successful construction of the
fund achieving all Predrawn objectives and goals.

Best regards,


Dr. Hisham Shkoukani
PMO ­ Director

CC: Mr.M.Basisy, MOLG
   : Mr.A.Hanoun, DORA



                                               - 16 -

Letter from MOLG

Mr. Kanthan Shankar
Task Team Leader
West Bank & Gaza

                 Subject: Implementation Completion Report ­Feedback on the
                        Second Community Development Project (CDPII)

Dear Kanthan;

In reference to the above mentioned subject, we thank you for your great efforts for the success
of the project which set the rails for the development of the Integrated Community Development
Project, which we hope to be very successful through the full cooperation of all parties.

As for the feedback you requested in your letter dated January 28, 2003 We'd like to point out
the following:-

I -      Bank's Performance

1)       Great efforts have been done by the World Bank staff which contributed to the success of
the project especially your efforts and Hisham Labadi, Husam Abu Dagga and Fifi Antar as well.

2)       Field visits done by MLG, PECDAR, DORA and the World Bank to the projects had a
great influence on the success of the project despite the difficult conditions encountered during
the last two years.

II -     Obstacles Faced

1)       Restriction of movement made steering committee meetings very difficult which caused
some difficulties in project approvals.

2)       Continuous closures caused difficulties in communications with the involved parties that
caused some delays in project implementation especially road projects.

3)       Increased poverty and lack of jobs made the collection of community participation in cash,
initially set at a minimum of 10%, very difficult.

4)       Setting the project upper limit at       US$150,000 caused some projects to remain
incomplete, we think that flexibility is needed to cope with any increase in the project cost.

5)       After the intifada, National Competitive Bidding became useless in some areas as only a
limited number of contractors could reach the new projects. The other choice of simplified
biddings was increasingly used.




                                                - 17 -

III -  Lessons Learnt

1)     The local authorities must have more responsibilities so that they can build up their
capacities in Management and financial issues of the projects which in turn lead to the
development of their community.

2)     Emphasis on local community participation is important so that their recommendations
regarding need for the project can be materialized..

3)     More comprehensive training courses or workshops should be given to the community
representatives to enhance their capabilities.

4)     A site engineer is always important for quality of the project and also to create jobs for
unemployed engineers

IV -    Social and Economical Impacts

1)     The projects implemented helped to develop the Local Governments and the society
especially in projects aimed at children, women, schools and school roads.

2)     The economical impact may be noticed in the following:-
       a-      Road pavements: Decreases veihcles maintenance costs and increases the effective
       time of people in all aspects of life.
       b-      Maintenance of water network decreases the water losses and in turn saves money,
               moreover, income-generating projects become much easier to establish.

3)     Social and environmental impacts:-
       a-      Developing the infrastructure develpos the environment in general. Paved roads
               are clear, potable water is important for drinking, electricity changes life entirely.
               Thus, the society is developed to healthier enviroment, less diseases and more
               relaxation.
       b-      Schools: The program improved access for education and helped students, girls
               and boys, in providing new classes and better roads to reach schools in easier and
               cleaner way along paved school roads.

Unfortunately many communities are still in bad need for projects. We hope that the Integrated
Community Development Project will further rehabilitate the infrastructure, develop the
Palestinian communities, improve the          environment and contribute effectively to social
development.

With Best Regards

Hani Kayed
Director of Project Department




                                               - 18 -

Letter from DORA


Mr. Khanthan Shankar                                                       April 22, 2003
Task manager
West Bank & Gaza
The World Bank


                  Feedback on the CDPII implementation completion report


Thank you for your interest to understand Dora's feedback on the implementation completion
report.

In reference to the feedback that you received from our colleagues in the coordination committee
in PECDAR and the Ministry of Local Government. I would like to reaffirm their comments and
I hereby express my appreciation to the efforts of the World Bank and our partners in the CDPII
especially Dr. Saab Areikat and Dr. Mohamad Shtaieh and their team who have shown excellent
cooperation in facilitating the implementation of the project.

Our Feedback:


1. The Department of Refugee Affairs - project department achieved high efforts to aim
    strengthen coordination and cooperation with our partners in order to achieve the best
    possible results.

2. The share that the refugee camps received from the projects is very minimal when compared
    to their real needs in the refugee camps. This result is considered an input in the operation
    manual for the ICDP.

3. There is a need for special training for the coordinating committee to improve reporting skills
    and to exchange experiences with other countries.


Ahmad Hanoun
Project Coordinator
CDPII
The Department of Refugee Affairs


C.C. Director General DORA


(b) Cofinanciers:
Ms. Bettina Muscheidt, Task Manager for EIB funding wrote: "In 1998/99 the EIB became
closely involved in the small scale infrastructure program by the World Bank targeted at poorer
areas of Gaza West Bank, including refugee camps (after a process of social mapping). The basic



                                               - 19 -

design and a first phase of this program had been led by the World Bank. The second phase
benefitted from the experience of the first phase and the World Bank developed institutional
aspects and the social targeting furthermore. The EIB contributed to this second phase of the
program with a loan of EUR 10m. The new institutional arrangements with a sense of enhanced
"ownership of the Palestinian Authority" helped with the smooth disbursements of this loan.
Further implementation came to a halt due to the outbreak of the second Intifada". Mr. Al-Turki
of OPEC Fund indicated that they were very satisfied with CDP II and in particular appreciated
the World Bank's effort in administering their funds. He indicated that they are interested in
continuing the cooperation on the follow-up Integrated Community Development Project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Lists of Projects IDA- Gaza Projects

 #       Project Code                 Project Name                  Town/     Area   Sector   Project
                                                                    Village                  Value US$
 1    CDP2/IDA/024.GZ    Developing Road No. 3,4 & 5              Gaza City   North  Roads    38,291
 2    CDP2/IDA/038.GZ    Developing 1st phase of internal Roads Gaza City     Middle Roads    83,825
 3    CDP2/IDA/023.GZ    Developing Road No. 1 & 2                Gaza City   North  Roads    57,267
 4    CDP2/IDA/022.GZ    New sewage line for different Streets    Gaza City   North  Sewage   82,908
 5    CDP2/IDA/039.GZ    Developing the 2nd phase of internal     Gaza City   Middle Roads    84,110
                         Roads
 6    CDP2/IDA/040.GZ    Developing the 1st phase of internal     Gaza City   Middle Roads    118,338
                         Roads
 7    CDP2/IDA/011.GZ    Developing Road No. 02 at Al-Amal        Gaza City   Middle Roads    141,874
                         area
 8    CDP2/IDA/041.GZ    Developing the 2nd phase of internal     Gaza City   Middle Roads    46,838
                         Roads
 9    CDP2/IDA/010.GZ    Developing the area behind Al-Abas       Gaza City   North  Roads    54,244
                         mosque
 10 CDP2/IDA/027.GZ      Developing the extension of Charles De Gaza City     North  Roads    20,437
                         Gaulle Street
 11 CDP2/IDA/004.GZ      Developing the eastern Road (Ex.         Khan Younis South  Roads    113,535
                         Sakia)
 12 CDP2/IDA/019.GZ      Developing of Senati internal Road       Big Abassan South  Roads    115,057
 13 CDP2/IDA/017.GZ      Developing Road No. 02 at a refugee      Khan Younis South  Roads    86,882
                         Camp
 14 CDP2/IDA/009.GZ      Developing Sad El Ali Street at a        Khan Younis South  Roads    113,726
                         refugee Camp
 15 CDP2/IDA/018.GZ      Developing of internal Roads             Khan Younis South  Roads    130,766
 16 CDP2/IDA/003.GZ      Developing of internal Roads             Khan Younis South  Roads    141,260
 17 CDP2/IDA/037.GZ      Installing rain water pipes- S. Abbasan Khan Younis South   Water    37,500
 18 CDP2/IDA/036.GZ      Installing sewage pipes at Block 4       Bureij Camp Middle Sewage   37,491
 19 CDP2/IDA/033.GZ      Developing of internal Road              Bureij Camp Middle Roads    149,263
 20 CDP2/IDA/026.GZ      Side walks for Madares Street            Maghazi     Middle Roads    113,880
                                                                  Camp
 21 CDP2/IDA/008.GZ      Construction of public services building Msadar area Middle Public   38,247
                                                                                     Building



                                                     - 20 -

22 CDP2/IDA/032.GZ     Developing of internal Road              Nusairat     Middle  Roads   112,394
                                                                Camp
23 CDP2/IDA/035.GZ     Installing water pipes for Western Abu Nusairat       Middle  Water    35,812
                       Salim                                    Camp
24 CDP2/IDA/006.GZ     Construction of the second floor of the  Wadi El      Middle  Public   55,356
                       services building group                  Salka               Building
    CDP2/IDA/044.GZ    Paving Salah Khalaf Street               Zawaida      Middle  Roads   103,638
25 (EIB/009.GZ )                                                village
26 CDP2/IDA/043.GZ     Paving the connecting entrance to the    Beit Lahia   North   Roads    99,983
    (EIB/003.GZ )      main Road                                City
27 CDP2/IDA/007.GZ     Developing the cemetery Road (Ex.        Beit Lahia   North   Roads    54,673
                       Adjacent Road)                           City
28 CDP2/IDA/042.GZ     Developing the access Road to Tal        Jabalia Camp North   Roads   140,948
    (EIB/001.GZ )      Ezzatar area
29 CDP2/IDA/013.GZ     Developing Khazan Street                 Jabalia Camp North   Roads   149,878
30 CDP2/IDA/034.GZ     Installing water pipes for Abed Rabou    Jabalia Camp North   Water    37,465
                       area
31 CDP2/IDA/012.GZ     Developing Daher Street                  Jabalia Camp North   Roads    81,590
32 CDP2/IDA/016.GZ     Sewage network-Phase III at Shaboura Rafah Camp       South   Sewage   87,807
                       Camp
33 CDP2/IDA/014.GZ     Developing Road No. 01 at Shaboura       Rafah Camp   South   Roads   112,998
                       Camp
34 CDP2/IDA/015.GZ     Developing Road No. 02 at Shaboura       Rafah Camp   South   Roads   148,718
                       Camp

IDA - West Bank Projects
 # Project Code                Project Name                   Town/Village  Area    Sector   Project
                                                                                             Value US$
35 CDP2/M/022 Construction of 4 classrooms for               Kufur Malik    Middle Education  40,000
                 elementary school
36 CDP2/M/016 Construction of 3 classrooms for               Ain Senia      Middle Education  34,753
                 co-educational school
37 CDP2/M/006 Rehabilitation of internal Roads               Ain Sultan     Middle Roads      66,373
                                                             Camp
38 CDP2/M/019 Construction of 2 classrooms                   Al Mazra'      Middle Education  50,000
                                                             Sharqia
39 CDP2/M/011 Construction of 2 classrooms                   Al Mughayer    Middle Education  29,148
40 CDP2/M/008 Rehabilitation of access Road                  Beit Dukko     Middle Roads     107,328
41 CDP2/M/014 Construction of 3 classrooms                   Dair Amar      Middle Education  20,000
42 CDP2/M/020 Construction of 2 classrooms                   Khirbat Abu    Middle Education  29,596
                                                             Falah
43 CDP2/M/015 Rehabilitation of school playground            Jabaa          Middle Education  49,650
44 CDP2/M/005 Rehabilitation of internal Roads               Jericho        Middle Roads      81,490
45 CDP2/M/010 Rehabilitation of access Road                  Karbatha       Middle Roads      80,309
                                                             Mosbah
46 CDP2/M/018 Construction of 6 classrooms for               Mazarea        Middle Education 118,038
                 co-educational school                       Nobani
47 CDP2/M/001 Construction of 9 classrooms for boys          Ne'leen        Middle Education 104,656
                 school
48 CDP2/M/004 Rehabilitation of access Road                  Deir Qiddies   Middle Roads      91,274
49 CDP2/M/009 Finishing 8 classrooms for girls school        Qarawat Bani   Middle Education 109,577



                                                  - 21 -

                                                            Zaid
50 CDP2/M/012 Rehabilitation of water network               Qatanna        Middle Water &    19,392
                                                                                  Sewage
51 CDP2/M/026 Rehabilitation of public center and           Beit Reema     Middle Community   5,000
              kindergarten                                                        Center
52 CDP2/M/013 Finishing works of hospital                   Ramallah       Middle Health     14,650
53 CDP2/M/024 Maintenance of the legislative court          Ramallah       Middle Community  26,933
                                                                                  Center
54 CDP2/M/027 Finishing of 5 classrooms at intermediate     Ramallah       Middle Education  29,000
              boys' school
55 CDP2/M/003 Rehabilitation of access Road                 Shebteen       Middle Roads      116,180
56 CDP2/M/021 Construction of classroom                     Sour Baher     Middle Education  22,108
57 CDP2/N/041 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Talouza and Al North  Roads      78,000
                                                            Bathan
58 CDP2/N/010 Construction of rain water main lien          Ain Al maa     North  Water &    68,606
                                                            Camp                  Sewage
59 CDP2/N/033 Construction of sanitary facilities at girls' Al Mughayer    North  Education  32,184
              school
60 CDP2/N/013 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Asera Shamalia North  Roads      134,339
61 CDP2/N/003 Rehabilitation of main Road                   Balata Camp    North  Roads      126,720
62 CDP2/N/022 Rehabilitation of link Road                   Boureen - Iraq North  Roads      44,800
                                                            Boureen
63 CDP2/N/015 Construction of 4 classrooms                  Burqeen        North  Education  63,900
64 CDP2/N/030 Finishing works of 3 classrooms at            Dair Ballout   North  Education  30,000
              boys'school
65 CDP2/N/023 Rehabilitation of access Road                 Deir El Hatab  North  Roads      107,470
66 CDP2/N/034 Construction of 4 classrooms at girls'        Deir Ghsoon    North  Education  85,000
              school
67 CDP2/N/001 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Faquaa         North  Roads      113,519
68 CDP2/N/017 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Hablah         North  Roads      75,000
69 CDP2/N/028 Finishing works of 3 classrooms               Hewara         North  Education  33,754
70 CDP2/N/008 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Immateen       North  Roads      83,967
71 CDP2/N/014 Construction of 6 classrooms                  Irtah          North  Educations 133,708
72 CDP2/N/006 Construction of 6 classrooms                  Jureesh        North  Education  127,287
73 CDP2/N/007 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Kufur Haris    North  Roads      65,964
74 CDP2/N/009 Construction of 6 classrooms at a primary     Kufur Labad    North  Education  95,565
              school
75 CDP2/N/040 Asphalting of main Street - Al Ma'ajeen       Nablus         North  Roads      53,978
76 CDP2/N/005 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Nassarieh      North  Roads      114,857
77 CDP2/N/004 Rehabilitation of main Road                   New Askar      North  Roads      109,998
                                                            Camp
78 CDP2/N/012 Construction of 6 classrooms                  Qusra          North  Education  135,887
79 CDP2/N/032 Construction of handicapped center            Salfeet        North  Public     29,942
                                                                                  Building
80 CDP2/N/018 Construction of 6 classrooms                  Sanoor         North  Education  105,890
81 CDP2/N/016 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Sarta          North  Roads      91,404
82 CDP2/N/029 Construction of 2 school halls                Shuwekeh       North  Education  15,790
83 CDP2/N/011 Rehabilitation of internal Roads              Talouza        North  Roads      41,330
84 CDP2/N/031 Construction of retaining walls               Tammoun        North  Roads      13,459
85 CDP2/N/002 Construction of 7 classrooms at boys'         Tayaseer/Tubas North  Education  125,928
              school



                                                  - 22 -

86 CDP2/N/027 Finishing works of 3 classrooms         Zaboba      North Education  20,254
87 CDP2/S/002 Rehabilitation of access Road           Bateer      South Roads     111,372
88 CDP2/S/014 Rehabilitation of court building        Beit Lehem  South Public     9,795
                                                                        Building
89 CDP2/S/012 Finishing works of health clinic        Deir Razeh  South Health     30,000
90 CDP2/S/008 Rehabilitation of public garden         Hebron      South Public     44,770
                                                                        Building
91 CDP2/S/004 Rehabilitation of access Road           Jala        South Roads      61,187
92 CDP2/S/005 Construction of service building        Janata      South Public    102,830
                                                                        Building
93 CDP2/S/003 Rehabilitation of internal Roads        Sureef      South Roads     133,007
94 CDP2/S/006 Rehabilitation of access Road           Tafouh      South Roads      73,600
95 CDP2/S/001 Construction of 5 classrooms            Wadi Nees   South Education 101,472
96 CDP2/S/007 Construction of 7 classrooms            Yata        South Education  93,448
97 CDP2/S/013 Finishing 3 classrooms                  Yata        South Education  20,000




                                               - 23 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                                                  All three BIAs and the ICR workshop
  - Indicators of improved access of affected     - Indicators of improved access to the          indicated satisfaction with the improvement
  population to services, such as roads, water    services such as roads, water supply and        with the infrastructure services.
  supply and sanitation, clinics, schools.        sanitation, clinics , schools etc.

  Indicators of beneficiary satisfaction with     Beneficiary Impact Assessment confirms          All the BIAs conducted and the stakeholders
  services provided.                              beneficiary satisfaction with CDP II            workshop reflect clearly that the communities
                                                                                                  were satisfied with the project objectives,
                                                                                                  projects implemented and expressed interest
                                                                                                  in project continuation




  Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
  More than 100 microprojects implemented in Over 150 projects implemented,                       A total of 200 infrastructure projects
  first 18 months of credit.                                                                      implemented in 153 communities benefiting
                                                                                                  over 1 million people.


  a minimum of 4 seminars/workshops for           4 seminars provided for small contractors       67 seminars/workshops for members of
  small contractors,                                                                              communities
  7000 full time job equivalents over the life of 5000 full time job equivalents generated,       over 10500 full time job equalivalents
  the project
   95% of labor and 60% of materials procured 100% of labor and over 60% of materials             100% of labor and over 60% of materials
  locally                                         procured locally                                procured locally

  1 End of project

Project Outputs and Achievements by Activity Type

                    OBJECTIVE                              TARGET (Indicator)                                  ACHIEVEMENT
i. Roads & Sidewalks                               Roads (km)                       325 km of roads upgraded/rehabilitated
  Rehabilitation & improvement of networks         Sidewalks (km)                   26 km of sidewalks completed.
                                                                                    7 seminars/workshops for members of communities
ii. Water & Sanitation                             Sewage (km)                      23 km of sewer lines
Rehabilitation & improvement of water &                                             10 km of water supply lines
wastewater networks
iii. Multi-purpose Public Buildings                Area (m2)                        8000 m2 rehabilitated & constructed
                                                                                    9 Multiple service centers
                                                                                    Maintenance of 2 courts
                                                                                    Construction of handicapped center
                                                                                    Construction of community hall
                                                                                    Construction of new market at Jabalia city
                                                                                    Construction of 2 youth centers
                                                                                    Construction of training center
                                                                                    Rehabilitation of public garden in Hebron
Education                                          Classrooms (no.)                 250 classrooms constructed and 3 kindergartens
Rehabilitation & construction of schools
Health                                             Area (m2)                        820 m2 rehabilitated
Rehabilitation of medical centers                                                   (2 health centers and primary health care units in community
                                                                                    service centers).
Training Seminars to increase capacity             Numbers - Four seminars          67 training workshops organized
among LGUs                                         provided                         1162 participants attended various training sessions.
                                                   Equipment Provided               2 training center in villages established
                                                                                    57 local government units and DORA were supplied with
                                                                                    surveying/engineering equipment, computers and printers.




                                                                      - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Civil Works                                                 12.30          19.33              157
Goods, Vehicles and Equipment                                                0.10
Consultancies, Studies and Training                          0.60            0.20            33.3
Incremental Operating Expenses                               0.80            1.19             149

Total Baseline Cost                                         13.70          20.82
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.50
 Price Contingencies                                         0.80
                         Total Project Costs                15.00          20.82
                  Total Financing Required                  15.00          20.82


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            10.00         3.50         0.00         13.50
                                  (0.00)           (5.20)      (1.80)         (0.00)       (7.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.10         0.00          0.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.10)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         1.40         0.00          1.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.90)         (0.00)       (0.90)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.00            10.00         5.00         0.00         15.00
                                  (0.00)           (5.20)      (2.80)         (0.00)       (8.00)




                                                - 25 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
  1. Works                                  0.00              16.80              1.36             1.17             19.33
                                           (0.00)             (6.30)            (0.90)            (0.00)           (7.20)
  2. Goods                                  0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
  3. Services                               0.00               0.00              1.39             0.00              1.39
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.70)            (0.00)           (0.70)
  4. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00              16.80              2.85             1.17             20.82
                                           (0.00)             (6.30)            (1.70)            (0.00)           (8.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Civil Works                     7.00         1.50         5.00        7.21         1.17      11.00       103.0     78.0    220.0
Technical Assistance            0.40         0.00         0.20        0.30         0.00       0.00       75.0      0.0       0.0
Project Management              0.60         0.00         0.30        0.50         0.00       0.69       83.3      0.0     230.0




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The cost effective model is based on a simple scoring system using seven indicators: village/town size,
community contribution, labor content, cost per beneficiary, cost per worker, cost per person day of
employment and cost per construction day. Each of these indicators were allocated scores from 0 to 4.
Individual scores were decided based on experience and studies by local researchers on employment
generation programs. Example of two indicators:


  Labor Content                   Score               Community                     Score
                                                     Contribution
      0 to 10%                     0                    0 to 10%                       0
      10 to 20%                    1                   10 to 20%                       1
      20 to 30%                    2                   20 to 30%                       2
     Over 30%                      4

The data for the seven indicators were obtained from the project appraisal forms and input into an excel
spread sheet. A scoring system was developed for acceptance or rejection of the proposed project based on
aggregate scores. The maximum score was 25 and the minimum was 2. Projects with scores above 10
were acceptable. This model was used as part of project appraisal and was one of several criteria used for
project selection.




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/21/98                  3    2 engineers and 1 social scientist



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/01/99                  5    2 engineers, 1 procurement
                                             specialist, 1 financial
                                             management specialist, 1
                                             social scientist


 Supervision

              10/30/1999                3    roads/procurement (1);                 S               S
                                             operations analyst (1);
                                             TTL/environment (1)
              06/07/2000                3    operations officer (1);                S               S
                                             Task Team Leader (1);
                                             operations analyst (1)
              11/17/2000                3    operations analyst (1);                S               S
                                              env. egr /TTL (1);
                                             operations officer--STC (1)
              04/20/2001                4    social scientist(1)                    S               S
                                             operations officer (1);
                                             Task Team Leader (1);
                                             operations analyst (1)
              09/23/2001                3    operations officer (1);                S               S
                                             Task Team Leader (1);
                                             operations analyst (1)
              03/19/2002                3    operations officer (1);                S               S
                                             Task Team Leader (1);
                                             operations analyst (1)

 ICR
              04/22/2003                3     operations officer (1);               S               S
                                              Task Team Leader (1);
                                              operations anaylst (1)




                                              - 28 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  10                      36,000.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        4                      12,158.74
  Supervision                               62.4                     224,471.67
  ICR                                         10                      36,000.00
  Total                                     86.4                     308,630.41
Assumptions: one staff week costs USD 3,600. Please also note Trust Funds of USD 23,132.75 were used
in preparation.




                                                - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

-    Beneficiary Impact Assessment, 1998
-    Social Impact Assessment October 2002
-    Beneficiary Impact Assessment BIA, February 2003
-    Minutes of Beneficiary Workshop, May 1, 2003
-    Environmental Management Plan
-    Poverty Map
-    Procurement Audit
-    Social, Technical, Institutional and Environmental Assessment
-    Cost Effectiveness Model
-    Operational Manual




                                             - 32 -

- 33 -

