Report No. PID6953
Project Name                     West Bank and Gaza-Community Development (+)
Project II
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Infrastructure
Project ID                       XOSF58684
Borrower                         Palestine Liberation Organization (for the
Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
Implementing Agency              Palestinian Economic Council for Development
and Reconstruction (PECDAR) in close
cooperation with Ministry of Local Governments,
United Nations Relief and Works
Agency (UNWRA) and Local Government Units
(LGU)
Environmental Category           B
Date PID Prepared                September 29, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 17, 1998
Project Board Date:              December 22, 1998
Sector Background
1.      Economic and political dislocation and under-investment in public
infrastructure over the years, especially in the poor and marginalized
communities in West Bank and Gaza (WBG) have contributed significantly to
deterioration of infrastructure services. The problem is also evident in the
numerous refugee camps which generally tend to
have a higher poverty levels
than other areas within West Bank and Gaza. Though UNRWA, with its limited
resources, is actively working in the camps, the needs are great and living
conditions in the camps are steadily getting worse. In many poor areas. both
within and outside the camps, basic services such as water supply and
sanitation are either very poor or non-existent. Many areas require urgent
improvements of access roads, and other infrastructure services such as
rehabilitation of clinics and schools.
Project Objectives
3.      The Community Development Project (CDP) II seeks to build on the success
of CDP I, which has over the last year implemented over 150 microprojects in
villages and small municipalities in West Bank and Gaza. CDP II, while
continuing to improve the availability and quality of infrastructures
services, will refine the targeting strategy to focus on the poor and
marginalized communities in Bank and Gaza (WBG). It is expected that a
significant number of microprojects under CDP II, will be implemented in
refugee camps, where living conditions are far worse than other areas within
WBG. The projects are not meant to substitute UNRWA activities but rather
complement them. All activities in camps will be coordinated through the
Department of Refugee Affairs and UNRWA. The key performance indicator for
this objective will be the number of microprojects implemented in these poor
areas.



4.      A second objective is to increase temporary job opportunities for
unskilled and semi-skilled laborers as well as the demand for local suppliers
and contractors, through the rehabilitation works. At least 200,000 labor days
(nearly 7,000 temporary jobs for a minimum of one month) will be generated
under the project.
Project Description:
5.      The project will be administered by a Project Management Unit within
PECDAR in close cooperation with Ministry of Local Government, the Department
of Refugee Affairs and UNRWA. The projects will be implemented by Local
Government Units (LGU) and Camp Service Committees (CSC) - for activities
within camps - over a two-year period beginning in February 1999, and ending
in December 2000 . Three components are proposed:
Civil Works: Implementation of about 150 small infrastructure projects,
costing between US$20,000 and US$150,000, by LGU/CSC using local contractors,
suppliers and laborers. These projects would have a minimum labor content of
25%. Such works may include improvements in water supply, sanitation, solid
waste management, and rehabilitation of local clinics, primary schools and
feeder roads.
Project Management : Supplemental operating costs, vehicles, communications
and other equipment, training and impact studies for project administration.
Institution Building : Agreements will be concluded with qualified firms or
individuals to provide training to: (a) LGU/CSC, to ensure good quality
microproject proposals (e.g. technical designs, realistic budgets),
responsiveness to competitive bidding, and an increased capacity to plan,
manage and implement infrastructure investments, operations and maintenance;
(b) private contractors, through seminars in both technical and procedural
aspects of contracting.
Project Financing
6.      The project is estimated to cost US $15 million. This would be financed
by : (a) an IDA credit (from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) of US $10
million; (b) cofinancing of about US $3.5 million, and (c) local funding of US
$1.5 million (which would include community contribution of a minimum of 10%
of microprojects costs in cash or kind).
Project Sustainability
7.      Community participation and contribution to the costs of microprojects
including commitment to operation and maintenance are envisaged to increase
ownership and thereby increase the likelihood that they will be sustained in
the long term. Technical staff of LGU/CSC, especially engineers and
accountants, will have access to training in order to increase their skills in
operation and preventive maintenance.
Program Objective and Poverty Category
8.      The project development objectives are linked to the Bank Group Strategy
for WBG, which emphasizes restoring and further developing basic and social
infrastructure and alleviating poverty. The project is consistent with the
Palestinian Authority's development strategy , which identify investment in
physical infrastructure and social sector as a priority. The main constraints
on infrastructure improvements in the poor and marginalized communities are
the availability and predictability of investment and maintenance funding and
the decreasing levels of donor assistance and limited resources of United
- 2 -



Agencies operating in refugee camps.
9.      The project would contribute to the Palestinian effort to alleviate
poverty by improving living conditions among the poor and marginalized
communities and by providing temporary job opportunities to people through the
civil works. The project would also build institutional capacity at the
village council levels and preserve public assets and help create
opportunities for local contractors and suppliers.
Environmental Aspects:
10.     The project will fall under category "B" requiring the preparation of an
Environmental Management Plan in accordance with OD 4.01. Further details are
provided in the attached environmental annex.
Benefits:
11.     Expected benefits include improvements in dilapidated small
infrastructure in poor areas of West Bank and Gaza including refugee camps.
The project would also preserve existing infrastructure assets and obviate the
need for much larger future investments in reconstruction. Other benefits
would be unskilled and semi-skilled jobs in the West Bank and Gaza and an
increased LGU/CSC and small contractor capacity to plan, manage and implement
works. The families of approximately 7,000 individuals are expected to benefit
directly through job creation. Other stakeholders would benefit indirectly
through improved availability, regularity, or quality of services as a result
of the rehabilitation and restoration.
Risks:
12.     The project faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be avoided.
Political and institutional risks include social stability in WBG and steady
progress in the peace process. Provision of temporary jobs and better services
to the Palestinians in WBG may have some modest, though not appreciable
impact.
Lack of coordination and cooperation among implementing agencies in
daily operations would compromise the project effectiveness on the ground.
Close involvement of the line ministries, especially the Ministry of Local
Government in project implementation should reduce this risk.
Managerial and technical risks include potential problems with project
quality in the field due to limited managerial, technical and institutional
capacity in LGU/CSC. The technical assistance component of the project is
designed to provide implementation and supervision training to both
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 9, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
1.      The Community Development Project II will deal with rehabilitation and
improvements of basic social and economic infrastructure in poor and
marginalized communities. The projects to be financed under this project will
cost less than $150,000 each, and will not involve construction of any new
roads or major distribution networks or treatment plants. Hence, the project
is rated a "B" category in accordance with World Bank Operational
Directives -
OD 4.01 (updated version of January 1998). Furthermore, the project is
expected to have an overall positive impact on the environment through
rehabilitation of roads, schools, clinics, water supply and sanitation.
Additionally, all specific microprojects would be subjected to environmental
screening (review) during project selection to minimize site specific
environmental impacts. The screening criteria will be included in the
Operational Manual which will be cleared by the Bank before appraisal.
2.      An Environmental Management Plan will be prepared to continuously
integrate environmental concerns into project design and implementation of
CDP II. The EMP would support (a) site specific subproject environmental
screening and review. (b) provide training to local stakeholders and also
other sector ministries involved in the implementation of the project. All
activities related to the EMP will be coordinated with the Palestinian
Environmental Authority.
The project could potentially continue after 2000, depending on its success and
on the availability of additional financing. As detailed in the "Palestinian Public
Investment Program and Funding Needs for 1998 to 2000, presented at the consultative
Group Meeting of December 1997.
-4-



