Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026044
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Second Community Development Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION As Administrator of 
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
Dated May 6, 1999
TF 026044 
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1999, between PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the 
benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza 
and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, 
as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and further amended by Resolution No. 
96-11 and IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association (the 
Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on July 
13, 1998, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety million 
dollars ($90,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West 
Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority.
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of Israel 
have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets out 
certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the Interim 
Agreement);
(C)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Page  2
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority;
(D)
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Borrower, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions” set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project (TF 026066 GZ), as amended, with the following modifications 
thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(b)
Paragraph (g) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as paragraph (k) and the 
following new paragraphs (g) through (j) are added in said Section 6.02:
“(g)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the 
Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in 
part, any of its obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or 
otherwise disposed of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, 
in the 
opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any 
of its obligations 
arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect 
the 
financial condition or operation of the Project implementation entity.
(h)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in 
the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
(i)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project 
implementation entity.
(j)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, 
ownership or control of 
any Project implementation entity shall have changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect (i) the ability of the 
Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to 
perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into 
pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the 
Page  3
Project.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the 
Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to 
finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of 
any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with 
the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals to such 
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Credit shall 
be canceled.”
(d)
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 is re-lettered as paragraph (h) and the 
following are added as new paragraphs (d) through (g) of said Section:
“(d)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the 
Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in 
part, any of its obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; 
or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or 
otherwise disposed of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, 
in the 
opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and adversely affect 
the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any 
of its obligations 
arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect 
the 
financial condition or operation of the Project implementation entity.
(e)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in the same 
legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(f)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(g)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, ownership or 
control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed from that prevailing 
as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as to materially and adversely 
affect (i) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the 
ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising 
under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any community in the West Bank or Gaza to which the 
Borrower proposes to make, or has made, a Sub-project Grant (as this term is 
Page  4
hereinafter defined);
(b)
“LGC” means local government communities and such term shall include 
municipalities, village councils, camp service committees, local project committees 
and bedouin sites in the West Bank and Gaza;
(c)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower’s revised manual, whose content 
has been agreed upon with the Administrator, which sets out the terms, conditions, 
procedures and eligibility criteria pursuant to which the Borrower shall carry out 
Part A of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Administrator;
(d)
“PECDAR” means Palestinian Economic Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, an agency established and operating under a Basic Regulation issued on 
May 14, 1994, under a Decree from Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization;
(e)
“Project management report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall include all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(h)
"Sub-project" means a specific project to rehabilitate or upgrade, inter 
alia, the water supply system, the sanitation system, medical clinics, primary schools 
or feeder roads in the West Bank or Gaza, or to improve solid waste management 
therein;
(i)
“Sub-project Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(j)
“MOLG” means the Ministry of Local Government of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(k)
“DORA” means the Department of Refugee Affairs of PLO; and
(l)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement, dated February 22, 1999, 
among  MOLG, PECDAR and DORA setting forth the tasks and responsibilities of the 
parties to this agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Administrator.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts 
paid (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account 
of expenditures under a Sub-project Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Sub-project; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods  
and services required for Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project,  open and maintain, in 
dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
Page  5
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to 
the Administrator a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to the 
Administrator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January  15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each  January 15 
and  July 15 commencing  July 15, 2009 and ending  January 15, 2039. Each installment 
to and including the installment payable on  January 15, 2019, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Palestinian Authority with due diligence and efficiency, 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and environmental 
practices and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of 
the Borrower and the Administrator, and shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of 
the Palestinian Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the 
Page  6
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Palestinian Authority and 
the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Palestinian Authority 
and the Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Palestinian Authority on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to maintain 
a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to have the 
records, accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) 
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonabl
y request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the Palestinian Authority to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Administrator’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Page  7
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Administrator for the strengthening of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order 
to enable the Palestinian Authority, not later than January 1, 2001 or such later date 
as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the 
Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority.
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
the Palestinian Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza
Page  8
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza of the day, month and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Joseph P. Saba
Authorized Representative 
Middle East and North Africa Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
% of Eligible
U.S. Dollars
Expenditures
Category
Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-project Grants
7,000,000
100%
under Part A of 
the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts B 
  100,000
100% of foreign
and C  of the Project
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
  200,000
100%
and training under 
Page  9
Parts B and C of 
the Project
(4)
Operating Expenditures
  500,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
  200,000
TOTAL
8,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than the parts of the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency used in 
the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority or for goods or services supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the 
currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “Operating Expenditures” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower, in respect of Part C of the Project, on account of salaries, rental of 
office space, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, telephone charges, and domestic travel 
and other related expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) payments made under Sub-project 
Grants; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for services with firms; (iv) 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract for services with 
individuals; (v) contracts for training, studies, seminars and workshops; and (vi) 
Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate and restore basic economic and 
social infrastructure in poor and marginalized communities in the West Bank and Gaza, 
and increase temporary job opportunities for unskilled and semi-skilled laborers 
therein.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Development
Provision by the Borrower of Sub-project Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out 
Sub-projects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out a program consisting of the provision of goods, staff training and 
expert services to: (i) LGC to enhance the quality of Sub-project proposals and 
upgrade LGC’s capacity to plan, manage and carry out infrastructure operations and 
maintenance activities; (ii) MOLG, PECDAR and DORA to enhance their capacity to manage 
and coordinate the implementation of Sub-projects; and (iii) small local contractors 
to increase their ability to participate in competitive bidding procedures and provide 
Page  10
supporting documentation for payment.
Part C:
Project Management Support
Support to MOLG and PECDAR through, inter alia, the provision of goods, expert 
services and training, and the preparation of studies, to ensure the effective 
carrying out of the Project and the supervision of its execution.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement under Sub-projects
Goods and works under Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, which have been found acceptable to 
the Administrator.
2.
National Shopping
Goods under Parts B and C of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with provisions 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to contracts for goods and works under the first three (3) 
Sub-projects which shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Part A of the Project; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under direct contracting 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Administrator a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract, and the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
Page  11
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Contracts
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to any other contract for the employment of consulting 
firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given. \0cSCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, for the overall coordination and supervision of Project execution in 
accordance with the Implementation Agreement; (b) employ, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, consultants, with 
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, to assist in 
Page  12
the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project; and (c) ensure that training 
activities under Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with 
programs, including time-schedules for the implementation thereof and criteria for the 
selection of candidates thereunder, agreed between the Borrower and the Administrator.
2.
The Borrower shall:  (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator: (i) by March 1 of each year until completion of the 
Project, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant of subparagraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period of twelve (12) months preceding the date of such 
report, and (ii) on or about January 31, 2001, a mid-term report, integrating the data 
and other information contained in the reports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) 
(i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project during the period following such date; and (c) 
review with the Administrator each such report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such report 
and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
B.
Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Administrator, 
pursuant to which the Borrower shall: (a) select Beneficiaries, approve Sub-projects, 
make Sub-project Grants and otherwise carry out its activities under Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the terms, conditions, procedures, criteria and other 
details set forth in the Operational Manual; and (b) adopt procedures, satisfactory to 
the Administrator, to (i) monitor against specific outcome indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects and the achievement 
of the objectives of Part A of the Project; and (ii) prepare for inclusion in the 
reports referred to in paragraph A.2 (b) of this Schedule, all information required to 
assess the progress of Part A of the Project and the achievement of its objectives.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent to $1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
relative to said Special Account, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Page  13
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Admini\1fstrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
Page  14
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
