C.G
co h~. -- 9P | ,"l' 11: 1           k -vP
People's Republic of China
Xinjiang High Grade Righway Project
6140
Urumqi-Kuitun Highway
Resettlement Action Plan.
Submitted to:The World Bank
(for Ulm Project Appraisal Mission)
Resettlement and Monitoring Office
January 1996
1/7



Content
I. Outline
II. Investigation of Project Impact Areas
2.1 Organization of the investigation
2.2 Scope and Result of Investigation
III. The Legal Framework and Resettlement Policies
3.1 Legal Framework
3.2 Policies and Principles
IV. Compensation Standard and Cost Estimate
4.1 Compensation Standard
4.2 Cost Estimate
V. Resettlement
5.1 Resettlement of People Affected by Loss of Land
5.2 Resettlement of People Affected by Loss of House
5.3 Grievance Redressal and Appeals Mechanisms
VI. Resettlement Organization
6.1 Organization Institutes and Staff
6.2 Responsibilities
VII. Allocation of Funds
VIII. Implementation Program
8.1 Implementation Procedure
8.2 Time Arrangement of Implementation
IX. Participation and Consultation
9.1 Project Identification Stage
9.2 Compilation Stage of the Resettlement and
Relocation Plans
9.3 Implementation Stage of Resettlement and
Relocation Plans
9.4 Restoration of Production and Life of People
Affected after Relocation
X. Monitoring and Evaluation
10.1 Internal Monitoring
10.2 External Monitoring
XI. Training of Staff Engaged in Resettlement
11.1 Management Organizations of Training
11.2 Mode of Training
11.3 Principle of Training



.
Table I--Table 9
APex 1          Curriculum Vitae of 3 Sociologists
Annex 2         General Outline of RAP Monitoring
for Ur=qi-Ruitun Eighway Project
Annex 3         Spread Sheets for Internal Monitoring



I. Outline
The project involves construction of a highway from Urumqi
to Kuitun, a total length of about 286 Km. Four connecting roads
and 15 interchanges are also proposed to be built. The proposed
highway starts at Urumqi south Ulabo, where the project highway
shall be connected to the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway
presently under construction, and ends at east suburb of Kuitun
City. It passes through Urumqi County, the Prefecture of Changji
(Changji City, Butubi County and Ma=asi County), Shihezi City and
Prefecture of Yili at Shawan County of Tacheng Prefecture and
Ruitun City. The cost estimation for this project is 5.1 billion
Yuan RMB. The proposed highway is planned to commence its civil
works construction in March 1997 and to be completed and opened
to traffic in September 2000. Map 1 attached to this Report shows
the geological location of the proposed highway.
The total amount of land to be occupied permanently by the
proposed highway is 1139.26 ha. (17088.9 mu) affecting 3706
persons. Also a total of 466.54 ha. (6998.1 Mu) land shall be
temporarily occupied by the proposed highway. No people shall be
affected by this type of occupation. The project affects 1349
persons  ( including  243  staff  _rom  enterprises)  due  to
resettlement of-1794 rooms or a total of 38201.2 sq.m of houses,
of which, 1037 persons due to resettlement of 1541 rooms or
30063.4 sq.m of resident and non-resident houses; 243 persons due
to resettlement of 129 rooms or 3121.8 sq.m of houses from 9
enterprises; 69 persons due to removal of 124 rooms or a total
of 5016 sq.m of houses because of noise pollution.
The main objective of this resettlement scheme is to assure
that the affected people's living standard is at least restored,
or even improved, after the implementation of resettlement.
The people affected by the project due to acquisition of
their farm land will still be working in agriculture after the
acquisition of their farm land. Farm land shall be read-usted and
then redistributed to them on the villager group base since each
villager group has a certain amount o' mobile land to be used for
such purposes. There are two ways to resettle the people affected
by house removal due to this project. The new houses of these.
people shall either be constructed in unity by the departments
responsible for the resettlement or by the affected people
thbemselves by spending the compensation fee paid to them. The
work for the above mentioned resettlement and compensation shall
be carried out by the Resettlement and Monitoring Office under
the Resettlement Lead Group of Xinjiang High Grade Highway with
the help from the local governments at each level to consult with
the affected people. The affected people can participate in the
preparation and implementation of the resettlement scheme.
Grievance redressal mechanisms related to resettlement courses
had been set in the resettlement organization of the project
Meanwhile the affect people are provided with the opportunities



.
to appeal. The total cost estimate for the resettlement is
143480400 Yuan RME. This amount forms part of the total coit
estimate for the Urunmqi-Kuitun Highway Project. The resettlement
will be finished within a period from September 1994 to February
1997.
The monitoring of the acquisition and resettlement of this
project needs to be carried out both internally and externally.
The internal monitoring will be carried out by Resettlement and
Monitoring Office and the Coordination Offices at each
prefectures. The external monitoring will be the monitoring and
evaluation of the independent Monitoring and Evaluation Group
formed by sociologists invited by the Client. These sociologists
view matters from point of view of sociology and public
participation. This is to ensure that the living standard of the
affected people after the resettlement are at least restored to
that of before the resettlement.
2



16.                                                              tME 41 Asm   4a   r-.:!r itl3 1.9 fA m  EE
ORG. NO         GEDGRWIIICAI. PEISITION' OF THE                              ss    2tw
tria SZ                                                    URVCll I TO 6                   IIH   Al'
7-
'.:'000000
.4%,           Shll`VA
Nd                   "   K   - =;
Sh
lhczk                                                    j               mk "A'.
Z
j       ix -A                  M
ANo.
%I        TA
7-
Rica                           a±
I-DAIFUXNGSILkV H-IGHWAY
svm 3 'r.
P L ir,
-%_Lrj
7a                                                        ;L:! -    Arr a
i:Avl
VT                       X:
1 Y
J,
.............
tt



11. Investigation of Project Impact Areas
2.1 -Organization f the Investigation
2.1.1 During the period from September 1993 to November 1993, the
No.1 Highway Survey and Design Institute of the Ministry of
Communications carried out a preliminary investigation of the
resettlement and land occupation along the proposed Urumqi-Kuitun
Highway. The population affected and the number of houses to be
removed were determined. Also statistical work had been done to
the land to the acquired, by different types of land and by
different users of the land.
2.1.2 During the period from June to September 1994, the No.1
Highway Survey and Design Institute of the Ministry of
Communications, helped by the cooperations from the local
government and the affected people, carried out a detailed
investigation of the resettlement and land occupation along the
proposed Urumqi-Kuitun Hicrhway. This time the number and type of
houses to be removed were determined at the village and family
level. Calculations were done by different types of land and
institutions using the land. In the mean time the number of
people affected was determined.
2.1.3 In July 1994 with the participation of the people from
environmental evaluation institutions, the No.1 Highway Survey
and Design Institute of MOC carried out field investigations by
spot to the noise sensitive spots deterined by them. Also some
pictures were taken.
2.1.4 In September 1994 , the NO. 1 Highway Survey- and Design
Institute of MOC, together with the Resettlement and Monitoring
Office under Xinjiang High Grade Highway Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Lead Group and the Resettlement Offices at local
level checked the resettlement and land occupation along the
whole line of Urumqi-Iuitun Highway. The investigation was helped
greatly by each District, Prefectural, County and Municipal
Government as well as departments concerned along the proposed
highway alignment.
A total of 1794 rooms (38201.2 in square meter) of houses
shall be removed due to this project, affecting 1349 persons
(including 243 employees from affected enterprises). Of the above
total, 1541 rooms (30063.4 in square meter) of houses are
resident and non-resident houses, by loss of which 1037 persons
are affected; 129 rooms (3121.8 in square meter) of houses are
enterprise buildings of 9 different enterprises, 243 employees
from which are affected; 124 rooms (5016 in square meter) of
houses shall be removed due to noise pollution caused by the
project, affecting 69 persons. The total quantity of farm land
occupied by this project is 645.55 hectares (equivalent to
9683.25 Mu) and the total number of people affected is 3706.
See specified in Table 3.
3



2.2 SC92e and Result of Investigation
2.2.1 The main items of basic information investigation carried
out within project influence area before resettlement include;
A.  The  milage  of  proposed  highway  at  cities  and
administrative area of townships through which the proposed
highway passes.
b. The average amount of farm land held by each person
working in agriculture by villager group along the proposed
highway.
c. Scope of affection and population affected by the project
in each city and town along the proposed highway.
d. The total population and the annual average income per
capita of each city and town along the proposed highway.
e. The total amount of land and farm land of each city and
town along the proposed highway.
See specified in Tables 2 and 3.
2.2.2. Investigation of Project Land Occupation
According to relevant highway engineering specifications and
the design documents of the No.1 Eighway Survey and Design
Institute of the Ministry of Communications, the width is BOm for
the right of way of the main line of this project and 60m for the
connecting lines.
The investigation for land occupation includes pe-manent and
temporary land occupation and quantity and type of land occupied.
a. 1139.26 ha. (17088.9 Mu) of land will be permanently
occupied by the proposed highway, of which
cultivated land                645.55 ha.(9683.25 mu)
vegetable field                 9.28   ha.(139.2 mu  )
forest land                    26.10  ha.(391.5 mu  )
orchards                       18.68  ha.(280.2 mu
grassland                      287.81 ha. (4182.15 mu)
residence bases                12.06  ha.(180.9 mu 
flood land                     26.59  ha.(398.85 mu
wasteland                       122.19 ha.(1832.85 mu)
See specified in Table 4.
b. The land occupied temporarily by the project includes
guarry,  roads  leading to guarry,  as well  as living area,
construction shed, precast yard and the construction detour of
the contractors.
The time limit for the temporary land occupation is from
March 1997 to end of December 1999. The contractor is responsible
for restoring the temporarily occupied land to its original land
feature by the time when the proposed highway is completed. The
Project Execution Office will return these temporarily borrowed
lands to the local government after the completion of the
construction of the proposed highway.
4



1. A total of 279.87 ha (43.98.10 Mu) of land will be occupied
as quarries and roads leading to these quarries.
2. The Project Execution Office will make available the
quantities of land for the contractors, living area, construction
sheds, precast yards, mixing yards and construction detours once
the construction contract with the contractors is signed. The
total rough quantity estimated for this type of land is 186.67
ha. (2800 Mu).
2.2.3 Investigation on House Relocation due to the Project
This  investigation  was  carried  out  both  for  house
resettlement within right of way of the proposed highway and its
connecting roads and house resettlement due to noise pollution.
The total floor area of houses to be removed is 38201.2 sq.m
equivalent to 1794 rooms or 265 families and 9 enterprises,
affecting 1349 persons, among them 243 are employees of affected
enterprises.
See specified in Table 5.
a. Investigation of removal of the houses in the highway
right of way. These houses are classified into resident houses,
Son-resident houses and enterprise houses by usage and brick and
concrete, brick and wood as well as civil houses by structure.
The total 'loor area of houses to be removed within the
highway right of way is 33185.2-sq.m, equivalent to 1670 rooms
or 252 families and 9 enterprises, affecting 1280 persons, among
them 243 are employees of the affected enterprises. This is
classified as
1. by usage
resident houses 26970.8 sq.=, eq.to 1413 rooms,
affecting 252 families or 1037 persons
non-resident houses 3092.6 sq.m, eq.to 128 rooms
enterprise buildings 3121.8 sq.m, eq.to 129 rooms,
affecting 9 enterprises or 243
persons
2. by structure
civil houses 6146.4 sq.m eq.to 263 rooms,
brick and wood houses 10747.6 sq.m, eq.to 530 rooms,
brick and concrete houses 16291.2 sq.m, eq.to 877 rooms,
b. Investigations of houses to be removed due to noise
pollution. The total floor area of houses to be removed due to
noise pollution is 5016 sq.m, equivalent to 124 rooms or  13
families, affecting 69 persons.
These houses are classified
1. by usages into
5



resident houses 2943 sq.m, eq.to 69 rooms, affecting 13
families or 69 persons
non-resident houses   2073 sq.=, eq.to 55 rooms
2. by structure into
brick and wood houses 5016 sq.m., eq.to 124 rooms,
2.2.4 Investigation of Other Structures Occupied by the proposed
Highway.
earth enclosure    1720 m
brick enclosure    1731 m
brick field        4 pieces
motor pump well    9 pieces
well               1 pieces
water tower        1 set
delta point        1
concrete slab      600 sq.M
concrete column    48 pieces
graves             462 sets
cell               3 sets
See specified in Table 6
2.2.5 Investigation of People Affected by the Project due to Land
Acquisition.
These people affected are divided into two types:
(a) people affected by permanent land occupation and, (b)
people affected by temporary land occupation
a. 3706 people are affected by permanent land occupation, of
which:
Urumqi City       190
Urumqi County     1483
Chagji City       266
Hutubi County     342
Manasi County     339
Shihezi City      290
Shawan County     488
Kuitun City       308
b. Since- the quarries and roads leading to these quarries in
temvorarily occupied land do not occupy farm land, no people is
affected by this type of occupation of land.
At the current status of investigation, no people are
affected due to the land occupation for the Contractors' living
area, construction shed and precast yards since no farm land is
involved in this type of occupation. In case in which this type
of occupation inevitably takes up farm land, the affected people
thereby shall be compensated as per item 5.1.2 of this
Resettlement Action Plan.
2.2.6 Investigation of People Affected by the Project due to
6



Resettlement of Houses.
The total numbar of people affected by the project due to
noise pollution is 265 families, affecting 1106 persons. of which
Urumqi City       209 families or 841 persons
Urumqi County     4 families   or 23 persons
Changji City      4 families   or 30 persons
Hutubi County     23 famLlies  or 84 persons
Manasi County     11 families  or 75 persons
Shihezi City       . families   or 5 persons
Shawan County     9 families   or 31 persons
Kuitun City       4 families   or 17 persons
2.2.7 Investigation of Enterprises Affected by the Project
Nine enterprises are affected by  the proposed highway,
affecting 243 employees, of which:
Urumqi City      4 enterprises or 46 persons
Urumqi County    2 enterprises or 10 persons
Hutubi County    1 enterprise or 165 persons
Shihezi City     2 enterprises or 22 persons
See specified in Table 3
7



I1!. The Legal Framework and Resettlement Policies
Resettlement is a very complex and sensitive task. Whether
the affected people will be well resettled or not will affect
their work and life. Chinese government has constantly attached
importance to this aspect and a series of guidelines and
reegulations have been promulgated. In accordance with the state
laws and policies, the Regional Government accumulated enormous
beneficial experiences after many years of work, and came out
with pragmatic policies for the Region to ensure that the living
standard of the affected people is restored or even improved
after the resettlement.
3.1 Legal FraEnwork
According to the following laws and regulations, the
utilization of the land within right of way of the proposed
highway shall be authorized for the project once the compensation
is paid and resettlement is completed for the affected privates
and institutes.
3.1.1 The Land Management Law of P.R of China
(Approved in the 16th conference of the 6th National Congress
on June 25,1986).
Definition  is  given  as  to  the  ownership,  servitude,
utilization and protecting of the land, as well as the
compensation rates for land acquisition, subsidies for relocation
and channels through which affected people are resettled.
3.1.2 The Guideline for Enforcement of "the Land Management Law
of P.R of China" in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
(Approved in the 8th conference of the 7th Regional People's
congress on June 24,1989)
It was stipulated by combining the actual situation of
Xinjiang 'Uygur Autonomous Region to specify procedures through
which  land utilization  for construction  of state project,
calculations of compensation fees, relocation of affected people
and utilization of temporarily borrowed land.
3 .1.3 The Stipulations of Compensation and Resettlement for State
Constructional Land Acquisition of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region
(Issued by the Regional Government by Document No. Xinzhengfa 65
on June 10,1992)
It was stipulated to strengthen the adjustment and control
over and guidance of the land compensation and resettlement
compensation in state construction land acquisition work in
accordance with the relevant regulations of laws such as ccThe
Land Management Law of P.R. of China>.
The Government of Xinjiang Region will revise these
stipulations and will soon issue the revised version, which will
then govern the implementation of relevant compensations related
to this project. The cost estimated in this Resettlement Action
Plan shall be properly adjusted then.
8



3.1.4 ccThe Management Regulations of House Removal in City>>
(approved by the State Council in the 76th Routine Conference on
January 18,1991)
The main content of these regulations refer to house removal
and resettlement measures.
3.1.5 Rules to Encore "The Management Regulations of House
Remow-al in City in Xinjiang" (issued by the Regional Goverzment
through Document No. Xin:henghan 103 on April 29,1992).
In these rules the procedures through which management of
house removal, compensation to resettlement and relocations were
specified by reflecting the Management Regulations of House
Removal in City and combing the actual situation of Xinjiang.
3.1.6 The Preferential Policies for Land Acquisition and
Resettlement for Urumqi-Kuitun High Grade Highway Construction
in Xinjiang Vyqur Autonomous Region. This policy, which will soon
be issued by the Regional Government,is formed for the purpose
of solving the problems related to the land acquisition in
Urumqi-Ruitun Highway Project, properly restoring the living
standard and production of the affected people and institutions
and securing the smooth implementation of Urumqi-Kuitun highway
project. By the time when these policies take effect, some
sections of this Resettlement Action Plan will be revised to
embody the new content of the policy which will also be reflected
in the implementation of specific resettlement.
This Resettlement Action Plan had been worked out based on
the above laws and regulations with consideration to the actual
situation of the erea affected-by the project.
3.2 P-oli-ci-s and Priciples
3.2.1 The main objective of resettlement of the project is to
assure that the living standard of the affected people is at
least restored or even improved after the resettlement.
3.2.2 The No.1 Highway Survey and Design Institute of MOC had
carried out many verifications- and revisions to the proposed
alternative of route in the route selection period with the
principle that " land should be valued to the most extreme and
used in a reasonable way" to minimize the area of land
acquisition and scope of resettlement. Many passages with
dimensions to the satisfaction of the users are designed for the
proposed highway to secure the original access on which the life
and work of the affected people depend.
The construction of proposed highway will inevitably occupy
some land, some houses and other structures, bringing impacts on
the affected people. The implementation of this resettlement plan
sha.L1 compensate and relocate in a proper way the affected people
and enterprises.
3.2.3 To ensure the smooth implementation of the project,
compensation should be paid to balance the full amount of value
9



of properties affected by the project.
3.2.4 Compensation will be carried out strictly as per standards
set by laws and regulations in 3.1 with combinations with the
actual situation. The monitoring and evaluation work should be
strengthened.
3.2.5 The houses to which the affected people shall be relocated
should be as close as possible to their old houses and the new
houses should at least maintain the structure and floor area of
the old houses.
3.2.6 The redistributed farm land to the affected people should
not be lower in area and class of land than the original
situation.
3.2.7 The compensation for the structures such as houses, without
any reduction as to depreciation and value of reusable material
from the demolished structures, should be in full amount enough
to construct new houses with the same structures and floor area.
3.2.8   For the land  temporarily  acquired,  apart  from the
compensation paid to the original holder of it, the feature of
land should be restored and then returned timely by the Project
Execution Office to the local government.
3.2.9 For the resettlement of the enterprise and affected people,
apart from the compensations paid to them, removal fee,
transition fee and operation loss fee should be paid to ensure
that no loss will be incurred to the affected.
3.2.10 Compilation and implementation of the resettlement should
be participated by the affected people full consultation with
whom should be required.
3.2.11 The objections of the affected institutions and persons
should be  given adequate  consideration  during resettlement
process and their problems should be solved through consultation.
3.2.12 The monitoring of the implementation of this project,.
including internal and external monitoring, should be conducted
in a strict manner. Grievance redressal mechanisms shall be
applied with opportunity for the affected people to appeal to
secure full protection of the affected people's rights.
3.2.13 The resettlement compensation fee will be paid by the
Project Execution Office from the overall funding of the project.
10



IV. Compensation Standard and Cost Estimate
4.1. Comensation Standard
According to the clause in 3.1, the compensations for land
acquisition shall be comprised of:
(1) Compensation for permanent occupation of land
(2) Compensation for temporary occupation of land
(3) Compensations for young crops
(4) Compensation for relocation
(5) Compensation for houses and other structures
(6) Compensation for felled trees
(7) Compensation for resettlement of enterprises
(8) Compensation as various allowances (houses moving cost,
transition cost and work stoppage cost)
(9) Other costs (land management fee, contingency, inflation
fee)
4.1.1 Compensations for permanent occupation of land
Referring to 3.1.3,
(1) farm land, vegetable field, forest land and orchards: the
land compensation fee will be calculated as 5 times the annual
average yield of the 3 year period prior to the acquisition. The
annual average yield per hectare is 11400 Yuan RNB.
(2) grassland; compensation for land is made by 4 times the
annual average yield of the 3 year period prior to the
acquisition. The annual average yield per hectare is 3150 Yuan
EKE.
(3) resident bases: compensation is made for land at 80%-of
the compensatlon standard set for farmland.
(4) Flood land and waste land: These types of land are non-
yield land and land compensation is made at 600 Yuan RMR per
hectare.
See specified in Table 4
4.1.2 Compensations for temporary occupation of land
The land temporarily occupied by this project is non-yield
land to which compensation rate is 600 Yuan RMB per hectare.
4.1.3 Compensations for young crops
Referring to 3.1.1 and 3.1.2.
(1) farm land, vegetable field, forest land and orchards:
the young crop compensation fee will be calculated as 2 times
the annual average yield of the 3 year period prior to the
acquisition. The annual average yield per hectare is 11400 Yuan
1.



(2) grassland; compensation for young crop is made by 2
times the annual average yield of the 3 year period prior to the
acquisition. The annual average yield per hectare is 3150 Yuan
RMB.
(3)  resident  bases,  flood  land  and  waste  land:  No
compensation is made for young crops for this type of land.
4.1.4 Compensation for Relocation
In accordance with the laws listed in 3.1.1 and 3.1.3 the
relocation compensation for farm land, vegetable field, forest
land and orchards shall be calculated based on the number of
people affected due to land acquisition. The standard set for
compensation for each person affected is 6 times the annual
average yield per mu of the acquired land during a 3 year period
prior to the acquisition. The annual yield per mu is 760 Yuan
RMB. The average amount of land hold by each person affected by
the project is above 4 Mu. These people are paid sufficient
amount for resettlement allowance to restore or even better their
living standard.
See specified in Table 1
4.1.5 Compensation for Houses and Other Structures
In accordance with the laws in 3.1.4 and 3.1.5, the
compensation standard is set for houses and other structures as
per the actual situation regardless of depreciation. _
a. Houses: compensation is made at 25Q Yuan 'RMB/sq.m for
civil houses, 400 Yuan RMB/sq.m for brick and wood houses and 600
Yuan RMBJsq.m for brick and concrete houses.
See specified in Table S
b. Other Structures: .compensation standard is set at 200000
Yuan/set for brick field, 200000 Yuan RMB/set for motor-pump
wells and 100000 Yuan RMB/set for water towers.
See specified in Table 6   -
c. The realization of implementation of land acquisition and
resettlement for this project shall be preceded by a notification
issued to the village level government to start resettlement.
Buildings constructed without the permissions from the concerned
departments within the area of land acquired for this project and
standing there prior to the date of issuance of such notification
shall be compensated in full amount. For building constructed
after the date of issuance of such notification shall not be
compensated. The result of investigation and check shows that
there is not any such type of building within land area occupied
by the proposed highway.
12



4.1.6 Compensation for Trees
Compensation standard is set according to laws in 3.1.1 and
3.1.3 with regard to the real situation.
a. ordinary trees: 100 Yuan RMB/piece for trees with diameter
above 20 cm; 70 Yuan RMB/price for trees with diameter ranging
from S cm to 20 cm; 30 Yuan RMB/price for trees with diameter
below 5 cm.
b. fruit trees: 400 Yuan RMB/pieces for production trees; 200
Yuan RMB/piece for non production young trees.
See specified in Table 7
4.1.7 Compensation for Enterprise Transfer
(1) The affected enterprises shall be relocated to a location
as close to the old locations as possible. Land used for this
purpose shall be supplied by the local land management
departments to the affected enterprises. The cost shall be borne
by the Project Execution Office.
(2) Loss aroused by removal of buildings and property loss
shall be compensated in full amount without lessing any amount
for depreciation as per the standards set in item 4.1.4 of this
report.
The staff from the affected  enterprises  shall not be
endangered by unemployment. They shall still be employed by the
same affected enterprises. During work stoppage period, the
affected staff from the enterprises shall be paid work stoppage
fee equal in amount to their salaries for the same period till
they resume their work.
(3) Apart from the compensation paid for relocation,
enterprises su!fered from work stoppage due to relocation shall
also be paid by the Project Execution Office for the period for
work stoppage (in terms of month) the operation loss compensation
fee based on the average monthly income of the enterprise during
the year prior to the relocation.
See specified in Table 1
4.1.8 Various Allowances
Standards for various allowances to the people (including
staff in the affected enterprises) affected due to house removal
are set as follows according to the laws in 3.1.4 and 3.1.5.
a. House removing allowance: 300 Yuan RM/family
b. Transition period allowance: 150 Yuan RMB/person.month for
a period of 4 months.
c. Work stoppage allowance: 400 Yuan RHB/person.month for
staff in affected enterprises for a period of 3 months.
13



See specified in Table 1
4.1.9 Other Costs
a. Land management fee is paid at 4% of the total
resettlement and relocation budget.
b. Contingency fee is paid at 6% of the total resettlement
and relocation budget.
c. Inflation rate is paid at 5% of total resettlement and
relocation budget.
4.2 Cost Estimation
The total cost of resettlement for UK! is estimated at
143480400 Yuan RMB. among which compensation for permanent land
acquisition  is  44030200  Yuan  E3dB;  compensation  for  land
temporarily borrowed is 280000 Yuan RMB; compensation for young
crop is 17707900 Yuan RMB subsidy for resettlement is 16899400
Yuan RNB; compensation for resettlement of houses and attached
buildings is 19961200 Yuan Rk!; compensation for felled tree is
17856700 Yuan RED; compensation for loss of enterprise
resettlement is 7500000 Yuan RMB: various allowances 530100 Yuan
RNB and other cost is 18714900 Yuan RNB. For details please refer
to Table 1.
14



V. Relocation
5.1 Relocation of -eoDle affected by lAnd ac=isition.
5.1.1 Relocation of people affected by permanent land
acquisition.
(1) Redistribution of land
According to clause 7 in 3.1.3 of this report, "If the
average cultivation land area for each person in each villager
group is above 1.5 (including 1.S) Mu, no arrangement will be
made to move the villagers from agriculture to enterprises". The
ratios of the redistributed farm land and acquired land over the
original total area of farm land for each prefecture, city and
county along the proposed highway are listed in Table 9.
Come&nlt  keal  pefie  land  ccuirad  .disbtribulednn inad  I  ram  lau per
rrmiland Ms. .)  affected                 Or ; ilF r
dsntric icmtv. Ieitvl       fea n!.-   or taUo tmi    ae . 1. l    ,tol 1 |    ____
lUnqi    Urumqi arv  7317  Von  63P  I OSK  95 L29% Iy!e'
ilnamqi  2903-   14W13  55J0S  I| . n9L  2P6.6  I.tas  j lt.2
ChOingi    Chauyli Cifn  4 0  266  10 in'   I 9 26S  1 9I7  n1521%  I (_
audtl Comm  3MS990  3a:  2179.9 6  033%  12771.  049% _e.___I  
M.i   w    =     179      31    |  fn 6  5'.55  0.33%  nl:f
Shiiezi c178i     __ 1      I I T.  _--  n   w       _1n7_ _!1 l
Twit  hows  J  45F0         7013 1 0 tl%  2411  047% e
Yil | Kukin ckie%  3960  30n  2.5-  |.M% | 154  (1.395  _n
As shown in the figures in the above table, the ratios of the
farm land acquired and the redistributed land over the total farm
land before the resettlement are very small. In this case, the
cultivating land area for each person in each affected villager
group, after the land acquisition, is still more than 1.5 Mu.
Therefore, the affected villager will not be transferred to enter
into enterprises. Inhabitants affected by land acquisition will
be still engaged in farming. The cultivating land, however, will
be coordinated and readjusted among villagers within same groups
by the local government at township level.
(2) Compensation Payment Mode
Apart form compensation for private structures and young
crops standing on the land acquired, which shall go to the
privates, the remaining portion of the total land acquisition
compensatiozs and subsidies for resettlement will be given to the
affected institutions to be used in production development,
15



employment of rich labours aroused by land acquisition and extra
allowance for living expenses for the dis-employables. The latter
payment should not be used for other purposes nor shall it be
possessed o' by other units and privates.
The Resettlement Office at county level should engage
relevant units in solving the problem of excessive labour forces
aroused by loss of their land through providing new job
opportunities in newly set up township/village-owned enterprises
or in side-by and agricultural productions.
(3) Measures to Better the life of the Affected People
Even after obtaining the land redistributed and the
relocation compensations paid to them, the affected people can
still be protected by the following measures taken by the local
government and relevant departments against maintaining level of
living standard of the affected at level not lower than that of
before resettlement.
(a) Based on the economic and technical informations provided by
the scientific departments, the local government shall make
adjustment to the industrial structures to facilitate the growing
of economic plants such as fruits, vegetables and medical plants.
(b) By means of protectional works and drainage works facilities
provided to the proposed highway, the irrigation and water
conservancy design shall be optimized to improve the unit yield
of the remaining farm land in the affected area.
(c} Some additional farm area shall be obtained by using the
wastes from the proposed highway engineering vivil works.
(d) The affected villagers will benefit from the opportunities
to do jobs such as hauling and processing some units and
construction material during construction period of the proposed
highway.
5.1.2 Resettlement of Residents Affected by Temporary Land
Occupation.
(1) As no cultivated land is temporarily occupied, no
resettlement needs to be arranged since no resident is affected.
(2) Once the construction contract of the highway project is
signed, if there is need to add temporary use land, PEO will
apply for the quantity and deadline of temporary use land from
the planning and land management departments. If cultivated land
is. used. compensation should be made by year according to the
annual average output of the previous 3 years.
(3) Permanent construction should not be allowed on the
temporarily used land. When the temporary land use deadline is
due PEO will restore the production condition of the borrowed
land and return it on time.
16



5.2 Resettlement of Residents Affected by Rouse OccuMation.
House removal under this project will be organized by the
people's Government at each level and removal and resettlement
will be carried out in unison. Specific acquisition and
resettlement will be the responsibilities of the Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Office set up at each district, prefecture, city
or county along the proposed highway. Thi's follows the following
procedures.
(1). The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Office under the
Regional Lead Group will discuss with concerned departments at
each prefecture, district, city and county and will investigated
into and check the number of houses to be removed, and determine
the scope of resettlement. Result of the investigation and check
must get the clearance from the affected people.
(2). Scope of removal and resettlement time deadline will be
publicized by the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Office at
each district, prefecture, city or county through house
resettlement announcement. In the meantime the affected people
should be explained to and well-informed. They should be aware
that construction of highway will bring in enormous social and
economic  benefit  and  that  their  living  standard  after
resettlement will not be lower than that before resettlement.
(3). Within the permitted time limit, a written agreement
should be signed between the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Office at each district, prefecture, city and county and the
affected people, regarding compensation and resettlement. Defined
in the compensation and resettlement agreement are the following:
(a) compensation mode and compensation rate.
(b) area of houses to be resettled and place of relocation.
(c) the statement that education, water supply, sanitation
and other facilities at the future place should be open to use
to the resettled people should be defined in the agreement.
(d) default liability and other clauses regarded as necessary
by the parties.
Tn the agreement, it should also be stated that the affected
people have the right to choose whether they would like to move
into the new houses constructed by the local government in unity
for relocation or they would like to build new houses for
themselves with the compensation fee paid to them.
(4). To reduce the transitional period to its minimum, the
house removal and relocation work should be proceeded at the same
time.
(5). The floor area and the location of the relocated houses
should confirm with the clauses in the agreement and new houses
should be constructed accordingly.
17



(6). The compensation fee should be enough to construct new
houses for the affected, without taking the depreciation of the
old houses into account in relocation.
(7). After the affected people removed into their new houses,
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Offices at each level
should accomplish demolishing old houses and level the site prior
to commencement date of the project and then hand over land to
the Contractors.
5.3 Grievance Redressal and A=eals Mechanisms
To ensure that the affected enterprises and individuals'
interests and assets will not be invaded or damaged, any person
or enterprise who has grievance against the resettlement action
may lodge a complaint with county level Resettlement Office or
the Resettlement and Monitoring Of fice.if the affected person is
not satisfied with the decision given,he/she can approach to the
civil courts at county and city/prefecture level which will
resolve the issue.
5.3.1 Organs of Appeal
Organs dealing with suit are:County's L.ArR Office, county's
Monitoring Office for L.A&R and the Resettlement and monitoring
Office.
Organs dealing with appeals are: The civil courts of the
people's courts of each county and the economic court of the
intermediate people's court of City/prefecture. The Diagram below
shows the organs and procedures for appeal:
3.8



Prefecture/Area Intermediate
People's Court (Final Decision)
Appeal 
Appea I    City County People's     Appeal
! -0prel. Courts (Decision)                       !
crievance
Coordinated by                   Coordinated Ny
*Coord. Office                    Reset. L Honit.
| of L.A2                        Office
grievance
|grievance                Coordinated by
I   I                     County level
llL.AR Office
grievance
|  Affected enterprises or
individuals
319



5.3.2 Contents of grievances Appeal
a. Grievances brought about from the acquisitions of land,
house, other facilities and provision of job;
b. Grievances arisen from an improper treatment by official
of L.A&R during the course of resettlement, or grievances arisen
from under-estimation of compensation;
c. Grievances arisen from a very low compensation for
resettled people;
d. Grievances arisen from wrong behaviours of L. A&R
official, such as taking advantages of their power, practise
jobbery, or entrapping the affected enterprises or persons, or
damaging other's interests.
e. Grievances arisen from wrong behaviour of L. AAR official,
such as taking advantages of their power, practise jobbery, or
entrapping the affected enterprises or persons, or damaging
other' s interests.
f. Grievances against the compensation rates mentioned in
this RAP. If someone feels that the compensation rates being
offered are not adequate to replace the affected assets, he/she
can contest these rates and lodge grievance with the appropriate
agency.
In addition to the above, a grievance/appeal can be
registered on any aspect of land acquisition and resettlement
related activities.
5.3.3 Procedures of Grievance Redressal/Appeal
(1) Anyone who has grievance against the L. A&R activities
should bring an oral or written grievance to the county-level L.
A&R Office or Monitoring Office and this grievance shall be
coordinated by such county-level office. A written grievance can
be submitted to the L. A&R Leading Group if there is no
satisfactory result given within 3 weeks.
(2) having received a suit form affected person or
enterprise, the Resettlement and Monitoring Office should solve
it in 4 weeks; If the affected person is still not satisfied, he
can first lodge a written appeal to the county-level people's
court.
(3) If the affected person or enterprise is still unsatisfied
with the decision made by the county-level people,s court, they
can lodge and appeal to the intermediate people's court of
city/prefecture which decision so made shall be the final
decision and shall be enforced.
20



VI. Resettlement Organization
6.1 Ormanization Institutes and Staff
The resettlement and relocation of this project has been
carried out by the local governments at each affected city and
county organized by the Regional Government in unity. To ensure
smooth implementation of the resettlement work, the local
government at each affected city and county had set up the
resettlement organizations within its judiciary region.
(1) A High Grade Highway Construction Authority was
established by the Regional Government. Members of this authority
include one of vice governors of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region, one director from each of the Regional Planning
Commission, Financial Departmezt, Communications Department, Land
Management Bureau, Project Execution Office which is under
Xinjiaig High Grade Highway Construction Authority and one leader
from each of the affected district, prefecture and city.
(2) The Regional Government established Xinjiang ligh Grade
Highway Land Acquisition and Resettlement Lead Group, member of
which include one director of the Regional Land Mazagement
Bureau, one deputy director of Xinjiang Communications Department
and one leader from each of the affected district, prefecture and
city.
(3) Under the Xinjiang High Grade Highway Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Lead Group, a Resettlement and Monitoring Office
was set. Member of this office includes one of the deputy
directors from each of Construction Land Division of Xinjiang
Land Management Bureau, Project Execution Office and Planning
Division of Xinjiang Construction Department as well as one
director from the Land Management Bureau of each of the affected
district, prefecture and city.
(4) Project Execution Office had invited 3 sociologists from
the Social Science Academy of Xinjiang to form an independent
monitoring group to monitor the resettlement of this project.
(5) High Grade Highway Construction Coordination Office was
set up by each of the affected district, prefecture and city
(county). In general cases there are 10-12 members in each
coordination office. Among these members are one vice mayor of
the affected city (county), one director from each of Land
Management Bureau, Communications Bureau, City Construction
Bureau, Power Supply Bureau and Agricultural Bureau of the
affected city (county) as well as one leader from each of the
affected township.
(6) Under each of the Coordination Office at city (county)
level there are Resettlement Office at city (county) level. In
general cases there are 15-20 members in each of such
Resettlement Office. Among them are one director of city (county)
level Land Management Bureau, one chief from the Construction
Land Division under such Land Management Bureau, one director
21



from each of the city (county) level Communication Bureau, City
Construction Bureau, Agricultural Bureau and one director of the
Land Management Office from each of the affected townships. Also
some working staff are designatod to each of the city (county)
level Reaettlement Office.
Xin.jinnr llirth Grnde Ilighway
Constrtrtion Authority
L
U Lead Group or RPseLtUOm?r,L
! -   i         Projeci Execution Office
;Io. 1  Hwy. Survey        R-m,eLtlement and              ReBettleflent Manitoring &
1Deéitn Institute       j   Mon itoring Office   ,Evaluation GroupI
I rfrecture (Area) level
,oordination orfice
City (county) level       I
ICoordination OffiiceI
City (county) level
iRerettlewnin orriv 
22



6.2 Responsibilities
(1) Xinjiang High Grade Highway Construction Authority is the
power structure of project implementation. It takes the full
responsibilities in construction of the proposed highway and to
work out resettlament principle and guiding plans based on the
relevant policies, laws and regulations of the state and Xinjiang
Region.
(2) According to these policies and guiding plans, the Lead
Group of Acquisition and Resettlement Office organize and
coordinate lame acquisition and resettlement.
(3) Applying the policies and decisions, Project Execution
Office takes full responsible to the proposed highway, not only
responsible for the construction of project highway, but also
responsible for examining and monitoring the implementation of
resettlement and relocation.
(4) Resettlement and Monitoring Office, in implementing
various decisions made by the Lead Group of Resettlement, is to
investigate into and check the quantity of resettlement with the
Resettlement  Office  at  city   (county)  level  to  compile
Resettlement Action Plan and monitoring resettlement action, and
with close cooperation with sociologist to put ,nto effect the
recommendations from the monitoring staff and to coordinate and
solve the dis-satisfactions from the affected people in relation
with resettlement and relocation.
(5) The No.1 Righway Survey and Design Institurte of HOC was
responsible  for the preliminiary  survey of the quantity of
resettlement of the project.
(6) The Resettlement Monitcring and Evaluation Group is
responsible for the external monitoring of the project. The main
task of this group is to carry out on an independent and fair
basis, monitoring and examination to each item of work related
to  the  resettlement  of  this  project.  The result of  this
monitoring and examination shall be put into report and be
submitted to the Resettlement and Monitoring Office.
(7) In close cooperation with the Resettlement and Monitoring
Office, each Coordination Office at prefecture and city (county)
level is responsible, in accordance with the instruction from the
Lead Group, acquisition and resettlement of the concerned
district.
(8) Under the instruction of both Resettlement and Monitoring
Office and Prefectural and city (county) Coordination Office,
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Offices at city (county) level
checks the quantity of resettlement. Also these offices will sign
land acquisition and resettlement agreement with the towns,
villages and privates concerned and pay compensation fee. They
are also responsible to coordinate and solve the appeals from the
dissatisfied persons.
23



VIZ. Allocation of Funds
ZA  The resettlement  fee  is  a  part  of  the project  cost
eastimation. The Project Execution Office will directly pay the
Resettlement and Monitoring Office under the High Grade Highway
Resettlement Lead Group the resettlement compensation fee. The
Resettlement and Monitoring Office will allocate the money level
by level to eacb of the local Resettlement Offices. Then the
local Resettlement Office will pay this amount to affected people
and institutions according to the contracts signed.
721 The young crop compensation fea, house and other structure
compensation fee, felled tree compensation fee, enterprise
relocation compensation fee, various allowances and inflation fee
will be paid,as compensation for the economic loss befall on the
affected due to resettlement to the affected institutions, by the
Resettlement Office at each prefecture level by level according
to the contract agreements to the affected people and
institutions. For the affected people's convenience of building
their new houses by themselves, the house compensation fee shall
be paid to them in this case. This house compensation fee can
also be put into use by the Resettlement Office at each
prefectures for constructing houses for relocation in unity with
the consent of the affected people.
.LI The land compensation fee and the relocation compensation fee
will be paid to the affected institutions by the Resettlement
Office at each prefecture according to the contract agreements.
Land acquisition compensations and subsidies for resettlement
will be given to the affected institutions to be used in
production development, employment of rich labours aroused by
land acquisition azd extra allowance for living expenses for the
dis-employables The latter payment, should not be used for other
purposes and nor shall it be possessed by other units and
privates.
The Resettlement  Office  at  county  level  should engage
relevant units in solving the problem of excessive labour forces
aroused by loss of their land through providing new job
opportunities in newly set up township/villages owned enterprises
or in side-by and agricultural productions.
7.4 The above mentioned fees will be balanced in 2 instalments.
90% of the total sum will be paid at signing the contract
agreements between the Resettlement Offices at each prefecture
and the affected people and institutions. The rest of the total
sum will be paid at the second instalment at the completion of
the resettlement work.
7.5 The land management fee will be reserved by the resettlement
organization at each level (10s of land management fee is
reserved at Regional level, 20' at prefectural level. and the
remaining 70% to the resettlement orgauization at city (county)
level) and used for the payment of the resettlement managing
staff's travel expenses, conference fees, training fee and
equipment disposition fee.
24



2,.. The contingency fee will be managed by the Resettlement and
Monitoring Office under the Resettlement Lead Group and will be
paid as the payments for costs for various itms of continency.
25



VZII Implementation Program
The realization of resettlement action started in September
1994 and all the activities related to the resettlement for this
project shall be accomplished one month prior to the commencement
of civil engineering works of the project.
The resettlement actions shall be carried out in 10 steps.
8.1 Imnml_entation Procedures
8.1.1 Establishing resettlement organizations at each level
This shall be organized and implemented by the Regional
Governments General Office.
8.1.2  Investigating  into  and  checking  the  quantity  of
resettlement
The quantity of resettlement for this project shall first be
preliminarily investigated by the No.1 Highway Survey and Design
Institute and then be check and against the real situation by
the Resettlement and Monitoring Office by summoning the
Resettlement Offices as well as the affected privates and
institutions along the proposed highway.
8.1.3 Setting up resettlement compensation standard
This work shall be organized and carried out by Xinjiang High
Grade Highway Construction Authority and the Resettlement Lead
Group.
8.1.4 Compiling the Resettlement Action Plan Report
This work shall be the responsibility of the Resettlement and
Monitoring Office.
8.1.5 Signing the resettlement compensation agreement
An agreement covering the compensation for land acquired and
relocation of people and enterprises shall be signed between the
Project Execution Office and the Resettlement and Monitoring
Office. Similarly an agreement covering the compensation shall
be sign respectively.
(a) between the Resettlement and Monitoring Office and the
Resettlement Offices at county level and,
(b) between the Resettlement Office at county level and the
affected privates and institutions.
8.1.6 Balancing the compensatio3 fee
In accordance with the agreements in 8.1.5, the compensation
fee shall be paid to the affected privates and institutions level
by level.
26



8.1.7 Rebuilding houses, redistributing land and relocating
enterprises
With the participation from the affected enterprises, the
Resettlement Office at county level shall select new locations
for the affected enterprises and start building the houses,
relocating the land and re-establishing the enterprises.
8.1.8 Arrangements for transitional period
One month prior to the conmencement of civil works of the
project, the Resettlement Office at county level should make
transitional  arrangements  for  the  affected  privates  and
enterprises for whom the new houses and structures and not yet
ready. This arrangement shall last until the affected are moved
into new houses and structures.
8.1.9 Monitoring and examining the result of resettlement
This work is a continuous one and is carried out by internal
and external monitoring. This item of work started at the day
when the resettlement work had started and be completed one year
after the completion of the civil works of the project.
8.1.10 Handing land over to the contractors
One month prior to the conmencement of civil works of this
project, the Resettlement Office at county level should be
responsible for the levelling of the site and hand over the land
acquired for the project to the Contractors.
8.2Tim Arancezaent _ of Imolementain
The resettlement action plan implementation schedule of this
project should be linked to the construction schedule and
arranged according to the cowencement and resettlement period
of the highway construction. All resettlement related activities
should be completed one month before the proposed date of
initiation of construction activities..
By the end of each stage,
(1) compensation for affected land, enterprises, houses and
other structures had been balanced.
(2) transition period arrangements had been made for the
affected houses and enterprises.
(3) land redistribution had been finished.
(4) the affected enterprises had been relocated and salary
subsidies and allowances had been paid to the affected.
See specified in Table 8
27



IX. Participation and Consultation
The public participation and consultation of resettlement of
this project is carried out in four stages. The objective of
public participation and consultation is to ensure that the
resettlement actions when completed reflect the actual needs of
the affected people and institutions, to guarantee the smooth
implementation of the resettlement plan and to satisfy the
benefits of the affected people and institutions
9.1 Prolect Identification Stage
The people involved in participation and consultation in this
stage are representatives from the governments, institutions at
each level and privates from of the project impact areas. The
main content of this stage is to identify the site, scale, degree
and scope of impact of the project.
9.2 Comoilation Stage of the Resettlement and Relocation Plan.
The participants involved and consulted during this stage are
the local governments and departments concerned, institutes and
people affected and the institutes and privates in the area where
the affected are to be relocated. The content of participation
and consultation is the investigations into the scale and
material indicators of resettlement, investigation into the
social  and  economic  status  of  affected  population  and
establishment of compensation standards for the relocation and
relocation scheme.
At this stage the Resettlement and Monitoring Office shall
compile Resettlement Information  Pamphlets,  which shall be
distributed by the Resettlement and Monitoring Office to the
affected privates and their representatives within 2 months of
the signing of the loan agreement with the World Bank. The
content of the Pamphlets cover:
(1) brief introduction of this project and its impact.
(2)  introduction  to  the   resettlement  policies   and
compensation standard.
(3) explanatory notes for the establishment of organizations
responsible for implementation of resettlement work.
(4) detailed information on grievance redressal and appeal
mechanisms.
(5) brief statement of arrangements for implementation
monitoring.
9.3 Imalementation Stage of Resettlement and Relocation Plans.
The participants involved in participation and consultation
are the local gover-nents and departments concerned as well as
the affected institutions and people (including those from the
28



host areas). The content of this stage is signing of compensation
and relocation agreements, balancing the compensation fee and the
completion of removing works. In addition the mechanisms is
established through which the affected people and institutions
can get grievance redressal and information is given as to the
approaches through which the problems can be solved.
9.4 Restoration-of Production and Life of the Affected after
The participants involved in this stage are the local
government and departments concerned as well as the affected
institutions and people. The content of this stage is the
establishment of the social service system and the monitoring and
evaluation of the resettlement.
29



X. Monitoring and Evaluation
To secure the smooth implementation of resettlement in this
project, two kinds of monitoring systems will be set up
concurrently and monitoring will be done by two separate organs
from different ways: i.e. (a) An Internal monitoring system
headed by the provincial government will perform monitoring from
the administrative viewpoint and compared with the provisions of
the RAP. (b) external monitoring by a team of social scientists
will carry out their appraisal and monitoring through social
investigation.
10.1 Internal Monitorinm
10.1.1 Contents of Activities
The internal monitoring will be conducted by the Resettlement
and Monitoring Office under the Lead Group and the Coordination
Offices at each level.
The contents of the internal monitoring include two parts:
Monitoring will be carried out against the RAP. Internal
monitoring will be a continuous process, carried out throughout
the period of resettlement implementation until one year after
the end of the project.
A. Monitoring by administrative departments (incl. township
end city's gover= ents) in their respective zones.
B. Monitoring the resettlement of affected persons and
enterprises in accordance with the RAP.
A. Contents of the type A
a. Whethe-r the resettlement is performed in compliance in
accordance with the specific provisions of the RAP;
b. Whether adequate compensation at replacement rates is paid
to the affected persons and enterprises; Whether compensation has
been paid to all the eligible affected persons and enterprises.
c. Whether employment opportunities are created for the local
persons from the implementation of the project;
d. Are the resettled persons satisfied with the compensation
rates and resettlement site for alternative houses;
e. Whether the living environment and newly-arranged jobs are
provided properly;
f. Whether or not the employees of the affected enterprises
are re-employed properly in the original enterprise.
g. Whether the land re-allocation to the affected persons is
performed according to stipulations;
30



h. Whether or not the information dissemination to,
consultation with and participation of affected persons and
enterprises is carried out;
i. Whether the expenditure and payment are recorded in
writing; especially, whether the reason for extra expenses and
the resource of supplementary money are described;
j. Whether or not the affected persons or enterprises are
able to register their grievances and lodge appeals.
k. Whether or not the implementation activities, which must
be completed at least one month before the date of start of
project construction have been completed or not.
B. Contents of Monitoring of Type 2:
a. Whether the affected persons and enterprises get the
alternative land of adequate quantity and quality, and whether
they are satisfied;
b. Whether they are satisfied with the resettlement sites and
with the new allocated land in terms of it location, conditions
of production and living as well as the changed environment;
C. Whether they are satisfied with the process of income
restoration after their land has been acquired.
d. Views, attitudes, comments or grievances regarding the
project, and the resettlement program held by the affected person
or enterprises;
e. Whether the affected persons are satisfied with the
officials' methods, attitude and the effects of the L.A&R
activities;
f. Whether the people are satisfied with results of
legislation against the illegality (or gaining private interests
at public expense) of the actions of some L.A&R officials (if at
all any such cases exist)-
10.1.2 Methods of internal monitoring
Differcan: m ethods will be used for different monitoring
items. The iocal L.A&R units will provide quantitative
information :-elating to the progress of various aspects of land
acquis-.tion Lnd resettlement implementation.
a. Based on this information for quantitative data such as
land area., compensation standards, compensation amount, person' s
income, relocated people, training and revenue of enterprises,
the manner of paper inquiry will be used, ensuring a minimum
sample coverage of 25% of the total affected population. The data
about families so visited and collected will be kept up to the
time of next survey for comparing and studying.
31



b. For some non-quantitative information, such as person's
attitude, view, comments, behaviour, random visit (and special
visit to some outstanding problems) will be done in monitoring
survey. The manner of inquiry should be comprehensive and
flexible, without any subjective elements.
10.1.3 Implementation of internal monitoring
According to PAP, internal monitoring will be made throughout
the preparatory and implementation stages of the project.
10.1.4 Power of the monitoring organization
a. The monitoring organization have the right to inspect the
standards, quantities and scope of compensation executed by the
implementing units, also have the right to conduct evaluation,
survey and super:ision for the completed or ongoing projects
performed by the county-level L.A&R organs;
b. They have the right to report to the higher organs on the
non-conformable standards in quantity unit price, scope, and have
the right to correct them; They also haver the right to inform
the wider communIty about the wrong practise which continue
without improveme=t.
c. They have the right to report to higher organs such
problems as strongly reflected from the affected persons or
enterprises and to coordinate and deal with; or to inform the
co=munity.
d. If partial L.A&P. official takes advantage from their power
to gain private interests or entrap the affected persons or
enterprises, resulting in damage upon other persons, people.can
bring suit directly to the local judicial department;
e. Having the right to expose such event as not treated
properly even though it has been treated, and the right to bring
once more a suit _f a sanction has not been given against the
illegal official.
The monitoring organ should work seriously, being responsible
for the government and the affected persons or enterprises. It
is important to made record well and to hold meetings regularly
or whenever required, to report the related situation and the
results of treatment quarterly to the Lead Group.
Collection and storage of date
The L.A&R groups at the county level will collect monitoring
information. This information will be both micro level (for each
affected household/individual) and macro level (for each township
and county). The formats for these reports have been prepared and
are given in Annex III.
The collected information relating to each affected
household/individual will be stored in computer files and w'.ll
32



be updated after every monitoring survey.
Reporting: The monitoring reports will be discussed in the
regular meeting of the Coordination Office of each level and
follow up actions will be initiated by Coordination Office at
each level.
10.2 External onitgrin
Xinjiang Regional People's Government has paid and will pay
more attention to the resettlement activities, in addition to
strengthening the internal monitoring, well-known social
scientific research institutes is invited to externally monitor
the resettlement work.
The Project Execution Office will entrust Xinjiang Social
Scientific Academy to undertake the external monitoring for the
resettlement under Xinjiang 2 Highway Project, with the General
Outline given in Annex 2.
33



X!.Training the Staff Engaged in Resettlement
Training shall be conducted to train the staff engaged in
resettlement  work  for  a  successful  implementation  of  the
resettlement for the project. The expenditures of the training
shall be covered under the land management fee of this project.
11. 1 Traininc Manacement Orcanization
The Resettlement and Monitoring Office under the Xinjiang
High Grade Highway Land Acquisition and Resettlement Lead Group
shall suzmnon personnel to organize training offices, whose
responsibilities are to organize, materialize and manage the
training program. One chief leader (head) from each of the
coordination office of the affected prefectures and cities shall
be designated to be in charge of the training affairs within the
corresponding prefectures or cities. Also some staff shall be
specifically assigned to the routine work related to the training
program.
11.2 Training Mode
Depending on the different objectives and needs of the
traineee with different levels and backgrounds,  the training
shall be conducted in two ways: training within Xinjiang and
training in China outside Xinjiang.
(1) Training within Xinjiang
In this type of training, the trainees will be the staff
engaged in specific land acquisition and resettlement work (i.e.
staff in reckoning, accounting, planning and designing). They
will be given lectures by the land acquisition and resettleztent
experts invited to Xinjiang from other provinces; they will take
courses given by land acquisition and resettlement experts from
the Region; and they will observe from on-the-spot practical
teaching. The training period for training within Xinjiang will
be 1-2 months.
(2) Training in China outside Xinjiang
Beneficiaries of this type of training are the leaders,
m-nagerial staff and key personnel above intermediate level of
profession from land acquisition and resettlement organization
of each prefectures or cities.
The main mode of training is to give the trainee on-the-spot
further training geared to their jobs or on-job training at
relevant colleges or universities and research institutes in
provinces.other than Xinjiang. The training period for this mode
is 2-3 months.
11.3 Training Principle
(1) In selecting the period for training the staff,
considerations should be given to ensure that the training
34



program should be closely integrated into the progress of
resettlement work of the project.
(2) Priority of the two types training
In case both within Xinjiang and in China outside Xinjiang
training are applied to the same content of training,
implementation of training within Xinjiang should be prior to
training in China outside Xinjiang so as to select through
examination given after within Xinjiang training, the trainees
with high level of proficiency to be sent to other provinces.
This is to ensure the quality and effectiveness of training in
China outside Xinjiang.
(3) Make overall plans and take all factors into
consideration
Full consideration should be given to cover various factors
which may affect and influence the time arrangement for training.
Both the needs froa the resettlement work of this project and the
actual needs from various organizations involved in the
resettlement work should be taken into account. Also needs from
the trainee's side should be cared in the meantime the routine
work should be maintained and the actual capacity to organize and
realize the training should be considered.
35



Cost Estinate and Fund Allocation Table
Table I                                                                                                                  Unit: 10 thousand Y RFM
|district (county, city)           |Urumqi District                        Chaw'ji Prefecture                           TacheRg   |Yi;i
I~~                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ DisLrict   Prefecture  To
Ila.                                               _                                                              Shihez;              I          lTtal
content                            Uruumi city   Uruiqi county  Changji city  Ihitubi county I Iumi co-ty             Sha1an      PKuit
.  .                           - !                .          c~~~~~~~~~~~~~ounty.
1. Coorensation for peroentant      397.65        431.25          r.56.55      725.28           G65.89       690.15   591.29      1 211.9C    4403
land acquisition                                                            _                                        |__
2. Compensation for temporary land   4.62         4.85            3.62      1  3.5              3.2           2.84      3.41       1.96      i2t
acquisition                        _                                                        I               j        *                       i
3. Compensation for youns crops   i 160.98        175.36         262.53        289.02          267.8       ! 275.34   248.61      90.65    1770. 79
14. SUbbsidy for resettlement         6.04         676.25       ;  12130     1  155.35       ;   151.58      1 132.2.1   222.53    110.45    1689.94
15. Q    .n   Ican folamm iand  J   1290.79    1  47.25         !II1.08          321.9       |   7.61          43.52  ! 37.I        /6.U       1116.12
other structureS                  !            !
___ ___ __-t _ __ ___ __ __             L            -.-                              _  _  _ _ ___  :_  __                __ _  _ _    _ _ _
6. Compensation ror relled treeSn    12.22     |  G5.49           97.03         249,85          19.1          101.37   819.06   . 220.05   ; 1755.67
I~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o7. Conep  tionf                  I  300          150                           200 !        _    _   _  _ I                       _______I750
Or enterPraeS                    I                            I                                            I        I
-8. Var{QUSallOvance             I 2; 33          1.56            0.36         21.87            0.0         1 2.73      0.81       0.36      153.01
Subtotal                         . 2307.23        1552.01        1216.37        W IS67.37    IM9.77          1348.69   1922.8   1 112.31     12476.S5
1. Land manageownt ree                                                           _          I !_  _. I                             a7
2. Countenficy                                                                                                                                 4 --  8 -  I  iSg7
3. Inflation fee                                                                            i623.83
Subtotal                           3,16.08       232.8        L  180.96         295.11         2.97           M3__2___ 1811.19
Total                               2653.31    1  1784.81         1,133.33   j   2262.43         1563.74    !550.00  2211.22    s 8  .16 i J14348.A



A Summary of  Investigation  Data  for Each Couinty  and City
Table 2
Content        milingo or hilhway pOssing      | total land area or each               Jtotal            annuul
through  ndli county end city    counLy andl city                      ipopulation       qver5se
^~ ~ ~ ~~~~~---- _--1                                      -- .J   _               i ncome
district(county.city)    lorigine  | terminus| length(hkJ  land area            jarea or rarning   110 thousand)  |per capita
kstak                                                 lnstake  :squore hilometer  I ln  Ihectares)  I  IY RHB)
llruq i  lmain line        kO'0t0O   !4l0102  !14.102
IJrumqi ____________II                           1   11275                36120              136.G5         3466
|connection     WA!  1O+O2 kll422       .2    I ___!__
_ ..                   42      _    _  _  _ .__-    I__ _ _ _ _
Changiji city    k444102   k73000    28.508    i   7725.6           !  120G|  17.591                      3117
rhonsJii.                                                                                                          !
prerect.  llutubi county   k73-000   kIl2-540   39.540         87.13.5          !  35990          |  16.21           2294
t4nnnsi 'OUllty 1kI2'$5401 k1l463261  33.786        11092.5          ,10140                                2197
I..                                          I.-              --.i
Shihezi city              kI.1G'326 .k178-300   31.0711       7529               178500              19.6           3856
Tachens   Shavan county    I78#300  k225#650   47.350         11991I5 56850                           38.77           1803
area                                                                  
Yili pre  Kuitun city      k225#650  k255*0091 29.360          1036                39680              90.121       I 5132
_ _ _ _             I  _ _ _ _   J.  _ _ _ _ _ I .   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           I  _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



A Summary of Investigation Data for Each County and City
Table 3
canent        1People afrected/  people arrected/            |non-resident enterprise houses resovedl &
lannl ncuireld    houses uccupicd             holuses        nrrected persons & enLerpriSes
(pesonns/hn. I    (Persons/rismi i icsu/     i-i.m/ron.s)  irersonsnnumber *,r enterprises
district(countY.city)                         sq../roams)                               sq.a/roo*s)
Uruqi Ci ty      IJO/63.8           841/200/21769.2/12111     1.151/28       j  /4/181G/101
Urumqi_  Uru.tqi county   1483/55.05         123/4/329/1O                 12/3         110/2/155/4
Changii city    26G/110.95          30/4/587/19               12073/55       !
ChangJi 
prer.     llutubi county   342/117.06         84/23/3030.6/120          1577.6/28        165/1/760.8/14
Honesi county   330/10.36          75/11/2015/73              GOO/21
_ _   .  _ _ _ i  _  _  _    _     _   _     _      ___                           _     _  _     _
Shihezi eiLy           J20/118.13          5/1/125/4                  565/17         22/2/30O/I1
Tacheng   Shnown county  1 .188/70.73         31/g/709/33                 326/13
Yiii      Kuitun city           .57           17/4U330/13                 611/15
pref .
tt_     .06 51 .                             ____._.         .           151_        I 43      __12_812
total                 |30/6559             106/265/29913-8/1182       515G/8         243/0/3121.8/129



A Sunmmary of Investigation Data for Each County and City
roble 41                                                   Init of ~UuiLtyIia      unit or cmt: 10 thc,wmI Y RI!
disti-ict (county, city)    lIkuwi distr-ict.            Itias       i prerectire     I          Todoe,  lYihi Pr-er. ;total   j ttalI
flInuii city  11Ww,i ,smt.y  Iwmari lutiji                         g ''wm    KuI i, LuntLy          c
tumn.             -________   ____~~~~cit  coainmty   a = n it    ____ £aiy   city___                     __
_____                    _____63_8_9A   110 _9   117413    _____      1.3       07      25           ,1 ,1
I'Ve. rcr E!.fI0           313___79    63.4..2   672.37    G 6. 2f   673.31 J 'I1JL1G _____   _ __17.64
rm. fr i-'r       454          15. 51       252.97   268. OG    2,12.5    20. 31 I161.2G   5.M 1r 471.M5
'11110.  -             ~~~~ ~~~9.03                     IJ.UO    __  __     __ __      __ __ _  __28__
&   r~~~id ~ree rain land ____               51.61                           0.__  ___    ___             0.11                5228
tcrestlriuan.   10.03         _____ ~~1.972.85         7.52       4.27n    2. 85    __        1.8.0.O                 _
land        ~~reerw lnrd   5.711.23                   10.25    42.86      24.31  j16.25    2.          95                   4.1
frtr- ny       2.19       I4.49           6.5       17.15      9.7.1   I) 65      9.12   '3. M                159.52
CL                                                                              __j ~~~~~~~~~~~--.---  --I.---.. ---L 
ree  w~m land  I  6.44     I 18.41l         7.1 CA   1.3       41.22   133.35' 29.13                    I__     106.49
_ _ ree  -cr w     ! 2.58        1    .30        3.00      2.92       1.69       _       13.34     11.0i      1142.6
quen.____                  27.52        ___6__                                  __       ___ __               __I_1
re ror(lndj  21.5             31.08        ______ 2.4 '1129.78 1137.89                                          35____
______  ~ran rc2cr1 Iv  Io.7s             17_         ___3       _        13.73              61.890   _____  ___               1 iis.w
residential  %ua.          I.I                _     _     _            _      0.47               0.68      10.91      12.06    _
ree ramr land                               ___2.14                                3.1       49.715     _ __151.90
riow     Iar.r  qwn3g.____    _ _ _ _      __ _ _ _         _ _ _    _ _      10.92    2.51      13.06    0.10        25.50
rep ro- land                                0______              .oi      0.15     0378      0.01                1.6
( ~sste land quas.       {   .74      I 25.06          3.91      45.8      8.01      6.91     22.08    0.64      1122.19
fire rw IM  0.      t   15           0.24     2.75       0.48   I0.41        1.32     0.04               17.32
total          Iqas.          192.69        I 121.9         ___119_0  172.57    152.62   13.0 294             130.01     113O.25 I
rfe ror- land     WA070         .131.25    1665    725.28    600.8        60. 15   591.29   2.11.0      ___G   1411B.02
_e______z   16O.98              175.3 1.  2.561  M8. 02    WF.8           M.Z 5.&1   248.61 :  0.0               17)ITAM7



A Summary of Investigation Data for Each County and City
Table S                                                                                                                                                              *nit:sq.atrse.. !thassne   loom 11ll
Contant    '            rusiduetlil                   n_oi-rugid.,ti.l                                                      |           enterwriit horse
(casaty eltIc clvll str.  brick end                       brick S        subtotul       eclvil qtr.  brick  I  tri.  *          subtotal   |clvil str.  brick sea   brick S    I subtotel           T:tal
wated qtr.     concrete                                      cocd       coUcrete                                wooI  i:r    -cete
!itr.                                        str.       str t                                                  tr         !
_ ~ ~       ~ ~~ _____  .-____ _                                           _____ _   _   . _        i.            t___                           .__                        _    _
Orqaaql           126/48       5102/328        15041.2/134   2116V2/12l0  451/21  3-6/2 0 __                   _     _                       j 15CIClI                   i ll/CI       24039.2/1339
trueel    c2e0.6setlo        ZO 45        236.08          502.17          1159.2        i11 .28                                1::                                     j2 29  11S     ;t11t44
diltrlet  _                                      _ __                                   _                                     I                    I
Orueql cuntt   329710         1321/10                                          4 2/3                  j               21         ! 155/4                                   I  4524/I;
~~~*2                       ____.__  ____ __ .. __._._        _ .__ .... _ ....._ _._ _~   _.__ ___   ......    ..__ f_.___  .1.  1.11                                             ' _,_ _/__
eusensntitJn    * Z3                      J1 23         | I fi~~~~~~~s                           e           3.81                                     ml .t       1.13-
l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ I _____ . __.________.
ChanJIl citi   I1551?          1 432112       ;                5t7/lS        1              2072/55                 I 2073155                                                            MOM
21.18               I~~ ~ ~ I2/                            t
eeePe"snticn   3 JJ   | 1 021                                             12 211  8292           '12/92                                                              i IC4C2
husg|i  I  _ __    _   _                  1.1_                _   _   _    _   _   _                    .       ,    _    _        _   _    
Pr         ntubi ocunty   252/Il          1677.e/lQS   I                  3930.1/10   126e3.4/11      220/13   1 74.2/4        I 55.6/21   ;                            7.1'III   If e 14           249/Il2
1lliitubic        ______   _______                              13.413       j6..S           8.1        4.45          19.14       *4A56                                   .45.6.          11*
*upuiiu*tici    j  3l.3        141.1                         1 5.1|t  e                   j08        ilg 1  0                   I                                £-           C       15i211.S2
heasl ziuntt ! 1412/54    I t1171J                           i2012           ' 555J22       4/2          _           6CQ/U       t                                                      2145/37
c2upgusnuion    35.3           25.32                         1 '0.62           13t          1                        15.                     -II7
_ _. ..._ .-. _ _-.__-   ,...-.-. ._  ___-----*-----*.- -*-- ---*j*-1 ---  j-   -r------.i--*--- -.Ö.._-. __    _   .                                                            -*.    . .. . .
ShielI_                               - _           ____ _  _ ____                           ___,  _ _______    _                             _                             ____ _____. _
_______tlen I                 'uap atls  5                     I 5           '12523                                  12  63                     1  6                     1 5.           33.23
Tr       !Shavedan  c   ,unt| 1y /3      133                                                           328/13                 i  21/13      |                                                       11o4/46
jeeepnsitiaa      1  S5       ;                                    95 180/4  11.5          113.04    i _      _1_i013.04                               -                                32.9s
1utun C ty       161e/l      81#/5          Itos            |330/13         123310        1352/   1/      1  il/s              l                          ll                             1/ct
of.     C apcre                         3.2l n   14.23  '_3_21|4 _      12.21          S113        |21.33                                  __       _  j                                        I 14j/33
_  _ _      oidI:o   .11,              1/                             3/I            22/                     1                            _________l__              _____._
total                       3942/110     10850.I1414  1 15121.2/4181  213.1/142 j 2049.4/69  13023216   ! 93.2/5               5115./1831 1155/4        j 18:91I   10;0.I1/34   3121.1/129 11I21I.2/14
co_________ 1                      4           901.21          1              51.2t         120.92    5.5t                       11 3t 11       7S t        ! .                        I      12
98.antit,  *352  434.02                                                   1207.27  ji4lI.Il  I2-i   _________  _________   .33  1.,



A Summary of Investigation Data for Each County and City
rsbI                                                                                                                       ( bit of wotim ifee 10 -hand T S
nmmt                                                z hd scubm  to be   .lad  yI tii  !ujut
-wt     (rleil 'fray                                                                                                                        j -   _ _ _   _
.~~~wI   _m                     h*d    miw   sl   _I~    Nuih          |     l  W*    -    --1t.   I --            iw   - htidi 
ewim.     W         a Ioual               UKlW  tik11 irigid  .mb.   cmmi   mr&    rimw    ,i tr                           wnc   |   rk.|
disuict (Oawntit?.) tI)               .(sa)tl  (sat)   (Md)   ts)       (uIt  hlat)  ht)  (a)           (st)   a.1,   Isl         (".ad    (st)  E "t ( [It    h)|
~_ !- _  __._ .^___ ___    ___ __          1    _o.w        au       mI                                                                                           .
Ouw.n cltz             .                                                                                                   3- 2-  *
district oax__tl_ _                                    _ ______       _                   _.   ___                      _     _   _
~~~  [ - . 1   '         _ _ _ _                     _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4o.
1m  at.        o321                                     51a                                       z !{                                                      f
Omatiw        '"       -        13-                             .-10A    ---..-          _       01 m=Ii
aI'la. I                   al                                           I                               .         I                       11
mf.   ULA cu .ty   in                                                              -   ____  __
_"tlI     __ __   I.__._                   I    f                                                i      i           iw  _l
__       __  _    ______ -wt    - ;l  -I                  j           -                                     --         -         -  1                 
(l______      __   _ 90          I7                                          I       __   _     _  _ 1  1           1 111a           
1,,1X                   2wli  I-                  --I~ I&J I                                                                 s 1l--z  I1
P9 apUil0    0.          0        2.1t j-                                                      _____ ii        0.3                      [ 0  *1 1                1 i _   -  t  -.  _   I  i -
ltl010~                            1---- ft                                                                             -- t                     f 1.rj t! |         
rhlm         l Shba  cit  2,,                                  I                        1                               >        I       i      I      |     I
d_str_ct I          1|                                                         I -    -I
tail   liluet R9                          i:mt    23  34  3   IL                             I         <    l
dsit.               I }        I         |            ! -  -  I               I      I     I          I       t        I         I       I      I      I       -I   .
ommtic    0Q.l23                  0.1                                                                           0 .11∞a   loX1.|1l15                        i 1.0l0a.I0    u
Til   iboetv  1102  15∞ 1                      1               >       u            1l 13                           ,,,    n                j2 !-  12-
c-alog tl_                 _ -1-0-2                                          tarn ,10m0oe.u   D.n   0! ∞.0                                          .0      143V.w9
toal Mutitf       ola_12                     3               i              I -us                 o    ia .go       Io        3            1        2 



A Summafy of Investigation Data for Each County and City
Table 7                                                                                                             nhit:Picj. 10 thmxyd Y RHB
content      I           rdinry bree                                                          rruit tnre                       tIntal
Idin.(i<         rix<dio.L   (fin. >ao co           "tol        youn  me         grown tree  I   total
district(county,oity)    qwt. {P lant.  l    sIt. LTnt - -. iq t- cow.   wmt.
Urii city         E3 21.16   25r,0 18.15  201    2.91   9037  12.22                                                            F.      gT  42.22
--tn                                                                                    --~7~ii  V      ___ __                  _
Ih"7   _    _      ~       ~             _____                       __     _        _ _ __ .        _     ,,__,
Wmi county    Ml2  9.87         6752    47.23  503    5.4G    100  63.0D    120 1   2.4   1               L         !2Al      I0IM     0i.4
_              .      ~        ~        ~~~I  -    .14Y
aii             5a3 i ty                G5.Q6  520    5.2       148   8S.4                   1                 626  112.52      1512 ' 97.3
(18118.11 cit  5M13   15.16   9251D13M $541 G
Oaa;i           _                                                         _              ----          !  I ~                  &s        *23t _ 298
pi-ef.    llutubi cmty    3168  9.5       22122 1154.85                   hi290  161.3   4275 1 85.5 t15 185.5 .,
IhnnsimiIty   75ff0   22.79 I16816  117.71   708    7.08   25rl l147.58   152M    MM521    !  11. j           1816 1j12.12      1139.7
b~~~~~ ~ ~                                                            t .            '__.-._   _ _.__ __-__-- _ _  --    -  --        l    --
Slil.iezilY *y 58;U   17,5    IU1112  70.(1Pa  EWA(      13.fi   17215 101. 27|               11.1                 !5 10.I            172I2) 1101.L
Txhd      zwiounty   4011  112.63   9588   67.12 2!1)    2.91 I 13800  82.0- CG            )    20      17M        717  I 189M          1 32815 1819.03
Yili     Kuitun city     i  862 50.59   463   281.3  1  Ri   1 1.85 1 21100  80.81 I 6962 !1M.24                |6112  3.21   12  22D.C5
__e5 ___                                         _  |1   I    --|  ,LI I                       I  I5 I  I6 M _ I  
total                |5S|  .s.                ___ -129  -6.! |__ 29013.;131i   G.7D0  1.1514 | f1.8|18215 |72a.5 !  m      018.88 !    |i85



Time Table of Implementation of RAP
rNO i.    I
Iinntatlen                i 1993   4I11 G5Ga                                    1  2-I9                t         1997    !12 1m121D
1.1y                        ilt l4l- ru&ot1- tz  I45lllatitlill7- L
3 Sat owrtlanstnixin                               lk                      LjL t               -       ße   
H. Pre.,.r      ~            i      I         1                        - .  - I-u     I t         1-I --i ,     I-i,'           
tii.i ~ ~~~~~~~ iII~1  !                                                            I.|l   ,tt   ,i - i- ~~~1    I -121-1
a      apay jloimnt  :     L,      I    I             |                 I S     L 112  3_!Su  i -I 1    i   i 2
1  rrtb ulld   k u 1   re !d is tr ib ute   g  l al  rd l 2I j | ! ! i i i| | | j | | '             f             
_________   __                                                                    - i--]- I ltI . I Ii I1 ( 1  1!       I i 
a larrgets fw nstiwal period1m                                                          llr                      i    !,
10 Iwt.d ff lE1d to t* C                                 ftrrFts  ||  T I|i.-ti:;



A Suuwy of Investigation Data for Couunity Farm land
Occupied by the Project Highway in Changii City
Table 9                                                                               page 9-1
Items        Population  Total     |Farmland Per      Farmland occupied  Farmland Per
raruland    capita Prior to  by the ProJecL      capita arter
Iland acql',isation  highway          land acquisation
Township, Village       j_ j  )    j  (Hu/person)                       (14u)            (Mu/person)
Sangong     ChansfenR      2399        15508.54 i    6.5              304.25               6.34
Township   -                                        _
Changsheng     2       -855  23590. 34].    8.2            214.03              8.19
Erliugone   Xinfu III      346         1557          4. 2             291.04               3.66
Township                           I           !
YuTwshugi    Daigen     |12           2700    !    16.fi              138.54               14.9
Township     i             1
Yonwjing I  | 450         8780.91        19.5              135.52              19.21
Yongiing 111   414        74193          18.1              149.04        j     17.74
Ynngiing IV I 434         G675           15.38            58.48                15.25
Yor:i ing VI 335         7637     j    19.3385.41                          i12
Oianjing V     408        6279           15.39       |    124.54               15.08
_   ing VI 1401 4*2 00                  10.47        J   205.09         J    9.96



A Suiury of Investigation Data for Conmunity Far-m Land
Occupied by the Project Ilighmy in lluteibi County
Table 9                                                                                             pags  9-2
ILeis             IPoPulaLion  Toal I  Farmland Per          Fnrmland occupied   Farmland per
rarmland  carita Prior to  by the project       capita after
land acquisation  highway             land amquisation
Township, Village                             (Hu)       (4u!person)            (Hu)             (Hu/peron)
Hongliutang     |  1039       4779             4.6               144          !    4.46
Dafeng        Gaoqiao              1514      12816.1  J      8.5                135               8.38
TvYnsh iP         _j_
Shuwnzi            787         822.4   !       11.2              54                11.14
Datuguli            1615      12159            7.5               241               7.38
Ganhezi             8141      4840.6   J       5.9               180               5.73
%iancliang,hone     609     j 3814     1       6.26              126          i    6.06
X2uBongtai    Shiiuhu       1 17f3     !9685             t 9               234          !     1 7-
Wugongtai     Sbiiu8
Townshp                                    1 i___              .
Twgorstapi          1559      12054            7.73              72-          I    7.69
Zhongqu             1951   112904    1         6.6               162               6.53
Forest Farm         4 :81   12426.5            5.0               432               4.15
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _;__  .__ _ _ _   I   59
Luanshanzi        |  1593      91_145           7 .5               27-0             7.33
lShaargng           T32      16.215  j         872                247              i 7.9
Yuanhu       '
Villase       llezhnn             2          12712.6          4.7                112         |    4.69
Ershilidian   Xi                   2107                                          180
Village                          _21__   19786.5
Sigong              713       1422.5           2.0                144         .    1.79



A SulLury or InvestigaLtion Data ror Coimunity ram Land
Occupied by the Proiet Highway in I1hnasi CounLy
Table 9                                                                                             page 9-i
Items              PopulaLion Total  rar      Frand  Farmland Per  Formland occupied | Faroland Per
tcaoita Prior to  by the Project     capita arter
Iland acquisation  highway          Iland aquisrtion
Townsh!i. Village                             (HU)       ,tHulperson)             (lul       (! Hu/rerson)
PingYuan    |                  I 196r0       5244.3               2.67           337.5        |   2.5
1Chant8heng VI]j  695           5800                8.3             299.9             7 7.91
LeLuyi       ketu.; I            236         1600        |       6.80            94.14        |   G.38
Townsh ip                            
Letuyi III         417     |   2100                5.04            118.8             4.75
Letuyi IV          322         27-00)              8.30            30.63             8.27
Letuyi Vll         545         2880        1       5.30            67.32             5.16
Letuyi VII!     | 433      | 2200                                  6 5.08  64.53     4.93
_ _  !Shanczhuanezi 1II  556      [   3350                6.00           62.10         i   5.91
Baci iadinn  1Taxihe V           574     [   4400                 7.67           292.5             7.16
Township      Ileilianiwun  VlI   670     |   3600       |        5.37           28.5               5.33
iBaojiadian I       65  3100                        4.76            112.5        1   4.59
!_________ jYoufang villaRe 1  614            2400                3.9             18.75             3.88
IXiliangzhouhu      856     | 0790                   7.9            390.6        !   7.48
Liangzhouhu  Zhuanglanghu        9:9         7031               7.4               105              7.31
Township
1Donglianghouhu    827      I                       8.2       |     173.25_      |    7.97
Taiya4ngiao        831         4823                5.8             355.37       J   5.36
I leiliang         188         1074        ±       5.7             204.75            4.62
Fengwigon       I 9G7      |     9                 6.6              i 2.75           6.16
Uushenv.ong      I 1987        3377.9               1.7            31.5              1.68
IShan,ngong         5;9         3400                 6.08           55.2              5.98
Tougong                          5 t                                              5                 5.98
Township    [Snangerzong         604                     J        8.28      |      3.48             8.17
| llanyuanzi        560          1600                2.86           72.72             2.73



A Summary of Investigation Data ror Community Farm Land
Occupied by the Project Highway in Shihezi City
Table 9                                                                                        page 9-4
Items           jPowulation  Total    | Farmland per     Farmland occupied  Farmland Per
farmland  capita prior to  by the project       capita arter
I  land acquisation  highway           land acquisation
Township, Village                          ( HMu)     (Hu/person)           (Mu)             (Mu/person)
Shihezi  Hepan village      |  555       15768            10.4              82.5             10.24
Township  Mi ipinz              74G       6372            8.5               588              7.75
Santong village   j  9G6        8184    i       8.5               1010             7.43
Xiaergon village T   598        5541           9.3                120              9.07
Nanwan village        926       9592            10.4              717              9.58
_    _   _    _            __                _   _    _   I  _   ___



A Sunmury of 1nvestigntion Data ror Community Farm Land
Occupied by the Project Highway in Shawan County
Table 9                                                                                       Page 9-5
ILems          PopulaLion iTotal     Farmland Per       Farmland occupied  'Fariland per
farmland  capita Prior to  by the project    I capita after
land acquisation  highway             land acquisation
Township, Village                        (Hu)       (Hu'person)            (Hu)            ()uperson)
Wulanwusu   Xiasangong        980     |3861            3.94               230               3.71
Townsh i p   - 
Sangongdianci |  1030       4872           4.73               420               4.32
Donegebi      |  335        2400           7.16               120               6.81
Jinggouhe
Township    Jingfen        j  1200    1IIO             9.17                430              8.8:
!Songshenggong |  1072       7 7000   i     i6.53              423          !    6.14
!Erdaowan          1400    1 6245           4.46               795               3.89
Daquan      Ye.iiahu          910        2912          3.2                85           i    3.1
Township                   t                     j
'.Judahezi        1105      3868           3.5                140               3.37
j Suzhouhu_        845       3750           4.44               50                4.38
An2iihai                                                                                    521
Township                                   0 Linywhan  140  9G0  6.8       231              5.1
Putaoyuanzi    j  602        3103           5.15       1       132          !   4.94
IJiashu            155     ! 449           -12.9        j      215          j    1.51
'4ujiaqu          1060      3835   j       3.62               182               3.45
Ashitesu          151       555    1       3.68               100               3.101
Touqu village  1  798      2913            3.65               495          i   3.03
_IGudao villase  !  829    !2653            3.2                534               2.56



Curriculum Vitaes
1966:  Graduated  from  Beijing  Political  Science  and    Law
Institute.
1966-1980: Worked in the field of Political Science and Law
Atushi City and Shanshan County.
1980-1993: Wo-ked in Xinjiang Acadaemy of Social Science and
studied on the field of nationalities and Socical Science and
Present Concurrent Posts:
Director of Nationality Institute of Xinjiang Academy of
Social Science(XASS).
Main Publications:
1. A study on legislative marriage age of minority nationalities
in Xinjiang.
2. Education on Han nationality's not living without minorty
nationalities and minority nationalities's not living without Ran
nationality.
Major Subjects Undertaken:
He ever participated in some studies and chaired some
sociological topics, such
1. A survey on extrication from the poor in southern part of
Xinjiang.
2. A study on Xinjiang's population effected by Dongxiang
nationality resettlement.
3. A survey on the tendency of nationalities' relationship
development in Xinjiang.
N,ame: XuX if a
Personal Data: Hale, Han Nationality, born in 1946
Education: graduated from Department of Chinese Literature,
Xinjiang University in 1986. Finished the fourth issue of
National Sociology Study Course.
Work Experience: Engaged in sociologial study since 1986 and
presently  the  director  of  Sociology  Research  Division,
Nationality Research Institute, Xinjiang Academy of Social
Science. Participated in the State and Regional level studies
such as investigation and research of overcoming poverty in
southern Xinjiang, the psychological stidy of ethnic minorities
in Xinjiang and investigation and research of the disableds in
Xinjiang.
Main Works Published:
1. main writer of Sociological Study of Overcominc Poverty
in Southern Xiniianc.  a book published in 1988.
2. An Outline of Family Planning among the Ethnic Minorities
in China, a book published in 1995.
3. "Sociological Study of the Disabled in Xinjiang", a thesis
published in the Xinjiang University Press in 1989.



NaMe: Mahar gul
Personal Data: female, Uygur, born in 1963.
Education: graduated from Department of History, the Central
Nationality College in 1984 and finished the fourth national
lociology study course.
Work Experience. engaged in research work in nationality and
mociology. Participated in National and Provincial level studies
such as research on conventions of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang,
research on the people over one hundred years of age in Xinjiang
and the psychological study of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang.
Main Works Published
1. Ethnology and Applications of Ethnology
a thesis published continuously in the first and second issue
of Roseach in Xin1iana Soc  I  Science in 1994.
2. An Investigation and Study of the Psychological Endurance
of  the  Ethnic Minority  Women  to  the  Family  Planning,  an
Investigation report published in 1993 in the book Psychological
Study of the Ethnic minority in Xin2ignq.
3. The Dietary Habits and Long Life of Uygur People, a thesis
published in 1992 in the fourth issue of Xinjiang Social Economy.



Annex IS
General Outline of RAP Monitoring
Engaged by the Project Execution Office of Xinjiang High
Grade Highway construction Authority (PEO), a Monitoring Group
formed by experts of Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences (XLSS)
will be set up to carry on socio-enonomic survey, external
monitoring and evaluation work on land acquisition and
resettlement (L. AR) of xinjiang 2 Highway Project as an
independent organization. The Group will fairly monitor, inspect
and evaluate the implementation o! RAP to ensure that the alms
and objectives of the RAP are fully achieved in the project.
1. Monitoring Contents
(i) Verify whether the implementation of land acquisition and
resettlement program is being carried out in accordance with the
specific provisions of the RAP.
(ii) Confirm that the activities which must be completed
before start of construction have been completed.
(iii) Determine the adequacy of the implementation of the RAP
to achieve the overall objectives of the resettlement program.
(iv) Determine if the compensation adequate to replace lost
assets: jobs provided are appropriate and- with good working
condition; enterprise relocation is carried out smoothly: the
elderly persons are able to maintain this standards of living
with the persons paid; persons affected by temporary land
acquisition are able to restore those incomes.
(v) Determine the level of satisfaction of the affected
persons with the resettlement and rehabilitation arrangements.
a. Whether the affected persons are satisfied with the areas,
qualities and quantities of the redistributed land comparing with
what they had before;
b. Whether the affected persons are satisfied with the
locations and living circumstances of the relocated -places
comparing with the original places;
c. Wether the affected persons are satisfied with the
compensation rates and types of affected houses, buildings
infrastructures, etc..
d. lhether the affected persons are satisfied with allowance
rates.
e. Whether the affected persons participate in and are
consulted with during the L.A&R process and if there exists
enforced L.A&R cases.
I:. Monitoring Methodology:



1. A method of combining the typical sinmpling and trace
investigation of various types of affected people shall be
applied.
Specific methods involve questionaires and real case study,
to set up files for typical villages and families and to collect
data on regular basis to fill the trace cards. The number of
typical families investigated should not be less than 120.
2. Regular or irregular random sample
In  this mode the affected people or fanilies shall be
formally interviewed or called on to the foum to address their
problems related to the resettlement and the causes of these
problems so that the true inforxmation can be reflected to people
or departments concerned.
III. Monitoring and Reporting Schedule
The Monitoring Group will start work in February, 1996 and
will complete their work one year after the completion date of
the project.
(i} After the completion of the first monitoring and
investigation , the Monitoring and Evaluation Group shall carry
out on regular basis an investigation / inspection towards the
people affected within some sections of the proposed highway
every six months.
(ii)The Monitoring and Evaluation Group shall examine and
monitor the implementation status of the result from the previous
examination.
(iii)The Monitoring and Evaluation Group shall carry out
thorough examination concerning various aspects in the content
of thia outline.
(iv) Investigations and examinations can be carried out at any
time the Monitoring and Evaluation Group thinks necessary.
(v)The Monitoring and Evaluation Group shall make a detailed
record and a monitoring and evaluation (MZE) report after each
monitoring action;
(vi)After the completion of all contents of the resettlement
work, the Monitoring and Evaluation Group shall write a final M&E
report based on a socio-economic survey to measure the impact of
the project on the income levels and standards of living.



M'9endlu I
No a
LAND REDISTRIIINTION4
County ravnahip
ifame   or                     ~~~~Land   hdotre   lanJ  ecquisitlan 
villag'wen                                        1111111±11ka                              Land of ter- Pa. of perwans IPer caelte   :O.. lBMu        oad 'O total l   'Out. Lnt*l      GoWt tatal
land aciuIred                                        -                                       L,. A.     ab',enui'mnt an    1 lwrd  nIditzg  rmhjstriht- I r -sesstla Ia 1gvpersetize Ila  - -r-. cm .ws-
Vpqniibe   Frolnd  FresisrLt  rchaerd   Fe1*    InI VM                      far.(ne          after L.A.    I an           i far lee-i     resetileuet        tl-I r-i,.
lanAI                            t~~~     ~     ~~~reel  In                                                                          wk u,led shldy received 
I  , ~~~~~~I& ±1IIPWA  ISfXiR 95U                                                    * RIMA   01lWf2*  I                       *
KUEM~     81~U  Et~.t  *t5k   RIiSURS3                       -*W 4



UD REDISlrlOBHrrll
County    Township          Villase
&i          k; Armex  111-2 S  2
llaew  of        i                             iandt  baor   lannd .ac ;isiidon
affn. 1111       .                                                                                             REJI Ii±  :  AIbn land   bl e  lalml  Luid  Ilrn ing.         Crvlp aIIMMrZ-           [ale total
----_              __ acquired        redistrilutad    after redistri-    Lion received                      c;wesation
Vegetable   ;Farnland   Forestland 1 Orchard   .Residcntial                     est;e                                                                    .                       , for  lard
I   land                                                     area                 land                                            i                                                  received
t APt  '1,                       '             I               j             '                  j            i
eL               UHtt      j.I         WW~                                                                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __!_ _.                      ,      w e
_ _  _  _    I               t    _  _     ._ _-       _   : _  _        ._ _._,_ _                   --I                 ,                    ;.
I                             I !                                                                                                                                                  I            
I       I                     I               a                                I            I               I                                              1 
__ __  __           .        I             I               ,                                I           -,     --     -                                                                         I- -  _-_!-_'_'_
_ _ _!_         t__     _      _  _   _     ,- _ _  _    _    _    _    _   _    _    _    _    _   _                     S ,_     _ _    _ ,_           _    _    _    _    _   _    _    _       _ _ _
*  ~         F                             !        --   I-                 :--l-                                   .t                          t                                                t -
!       l             l               l                                1            l                ffi~             ~ I  S                                                                  1
I                         I                    I~~~~~~



HOU1SE REIXATOlw,lll
County       Townshii
Annex ,11-    X  3
llame ol'    Tot.a l IIOfms ;1I;'?'L.d'fi H1o, Jr s' ns t)Ii!a l * 'arsnsa;et ion    Date Flow SRI,!  Dat.e OW  Ii,rI.    Ae  -)I         Arra :I hofses
vi I laitp      QIJJils t.tIe                                                         1 fIvi'I blr        iii             housrs        | .).-uPi ed
_ __ ._______- _.  e:#ionst.rit:oion    M:uInsnitl ism  c-onstroI ch    |
I                     I                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~int ii I i ic
FM tW1         flo.          Are.)          .    a        To hte g imn  I 'iii'i en  NP12     LA 'J   i JF fiE'HI                '£ H           h"m      l
A ,  (.i-|   i     {i               t              t fi t H   (II        I|                   |               23J1"hl    '  | i  i
I--    '1---    1' ~~~~----''''i------1------''--'---I_
..~~~~~~~~~~ .I  ____. . _   I _._ _ _ ß
.11 -.-                                          - Li_. .2z_iz.K



111S11$1' RELO)fAT11111
County       Townsh ip      Vi I aj;e
Kfi           ts             t                                                                    .;nnex    11-1  iM  :
liins    l,- iT   1mlM,   '     i I  011.!'s -41 01111   nt  0,.|  M1. - 1|ti:.'  .11^ ßIli'  i Ar t.,'nw 1 l!ar       r)
;I 1,    I'l  sm    iml                'Iwfilu;~~~~~~~~~~~ in,n~       11~   ..ns  r,
g----1                                    I     m         Iww (1-----
'-'''''''''1''''i.'''''-'' '' ................'  .. ....
. *. ..I.a .. . . . .                                                                       ... .. .... . .. . . .. ... . .... .. . .. . . .. ................
I~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                            I
._..-...t. ....i.......... .        ........                  - ---.-. ---------------
I  I             _



I EU4': RPRl I S.E. I0iLCAT I111
.,k  ft  A   fli  .Z   *t  (A)
Vaunt,      rn'nshlp
A           A                                                                                                                                                                           111-5  a1S
1.I.rNpst lil fur   111,lr    tin. e       ,      ,          mts a  Nf . g 'i C .nl.   ; nMrprr-i   Mi,.  *ei  -rs.             - ( .--towpri
I                     |    -    f -         ! lxonilstl  I ion  nilzPnsal i zn            .:lar I  e                                                                      i | rfi lI!t*:l r sire *X11  @ I qn   *  ! I
Att II     1              :; I ti.ss foi'rnq  7 n   rcwju?P,  h-Fu1 1.w1I1;:   %;ill- 1    roJlea-Me  t;;l     f !a  I  Ii .:LarI                                                      . .T1;a
fpbrT*MA Ionimprrwint Wn         CflW rW       ir ion1t uet A                          I '
|t kkt        s                   ! P.j A i   1 i          raa: la i la.eaTL1     I         :,                                                                      :!2WI2 iA'.  nl   !     TT
|   .       1 9t{1        a!1                                                           _            l    _           _!   .   .....L....1  .S.a.  itift
1   1   _  __  ,_ _ _ _ . ...I                                 j                j   ;                *.*-*-t-- :
II~~ I                                                                           I .!                               i .... 
,~I j                                                                                                                                               'I.L.   
;---1-i-                                                            -               -i---
t*ß  t I                                                     _  -                                             I _I1 ___ >
1- 1--1--r--~~~~~~~~~I                            L                                                                                                           I  I 
-~~IIII'                                                                                                                                        _____I____



TEMPORARY LAIID LEASIIG
II    IN Rl41    ( B)
County    Township      Village
I tt                                                                                                                 Annex 111-8   St 8
lIlame of   Total      Area leasel I Average income  Date leased   Amount and dlate   RehabiliLaLion  Average          | Date land I Thether returned
arrecteti   raralanI r.or proj4cL  I xtrore leasing                   .,r paying coup. M :rrangemenits   I wontIl y      retLrnerd    to original
household                                                             L to arr. person    made ror        income afLer              ICor
IV,~LJ~'     !~i~i&t~ ! m:~iMwR  JAI~jqf arrected till    leasin*   laf                          on otL
t£ S                               I                   |           I   ' I !             f2Fft)                     |not
1  _   _                 ! _ _ _   _ __      __          j  __              I  _   __           __           I     _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                         I-I-j .__
_____        K.    K                        .1    f______ I__ _.                                              ....   I.
_                  ~~~~~~~~I .                                                                      !



