. ' 1*: I')]
AJL O  L_    l 
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
E140
WIDENING WORK IN CONTRACT NO.4
OF XINJIANG 1 HIGHWAY PROJECT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
(Submitted to: The World Bank)
Resettlement & Monitoring Office
Project Execution Office of Xinjiang
High Grade Highway Construction Authority
January, 1996
V0  4-



Table of Contents
1.0 GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE WIDENING WORKk
2.0 INVESTIGATION ON THE RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS
2.1 Organization of Resettlement Investigation
2.2 Investigation Result
3.0 COMPENSATION STANDARD AND COST ESTIMATE
3.1 Compensation Standard
3.2 Cost Estimate
4.0 CAPITAL ALLOCATION AND RESETTLEMENT
4.1 Capital Allocation
4.2 Resettlement
5.0 COMPLAINT CONSOLATION AND APPEAL NECHANISX
6.0 PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
6.1  Confirmation Stage of the Widening Work
6.2 Preparation Stage of the Resettlement Action Plan
6.3 Implementation Stage of the Resettlement Action Plan
6.4  Production-and Living Rehabilitation Stage after the
Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan
7.0 MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT
7.1 Internal Monitoring
7.2 External Monitoring



1.0 GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE WIDENING WORK
* The total length of the widening work is 62.4kn,  the
widening work is located in Urumqi County.
The area of occupied land which is caused by the widening
work is 116.95 hectare (1,754.25 mu). Regarding to the occupied
land, except from a few state-owned woodland and cultivated land
for cities and towns along the alignment, all of the other lands
are wasteland and desert grassland, we do not have impacted
persons in those areas. 53 houses with a total area of 556.5
sq.m, which located in the new right-of-way, should be removed,
but all of these houses are not for the dwelling purpose. The
number of affected persons is 25 and two enterprises are
affected.
The widening work forms a part of TUDE project, all of the
laws,  polices  and  principles  for  land  acquisition  and
resettlement,compensation   standard,   resettlement  methods,
monitoring assessment adopted for the completed land acquisition
and resettlement of TUDE project are suitable for the
resettlement of the widening work. The resettlement compensation
work of the widening work will be taken the responsibility by the
Resettlement and Monitoring Office, which is guided by Xinjiang
High Grade Highway Resettlement Leading Team, this work could be
accomplished after the negotiation between the Resettlement
office of the Urumqi County and the impacted personal or affected
enterprises. The cost estimate of the resettlement is 1.9379 .-
million RMB. The implementation schedule of the resettlement work
is from December 1995 to March 1996.
2.0 INVESTIGATION ON TEE RESETTLEMENT MATERIALS
2.1 Organization of Resettlement Investigation
2.1.1   Xinjiang Highway Planing, Survey & Design Institute
carried out preliminary investigation on the resettlement and
occupied land status which is caused by the proposed widening
work in November 1995, the situation of houses which should be
removed and the impacted personal was determined after the
preliminary investigation, also the statistics of the new land
which should be requisitioned was made in accordance with the
different land types.
2.1.2  Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey & Design Institute as
well as Reseetlement and Monitoring Office and Resettlement
Office of Urunqi County made the verification on the resettlement
and occupied land status of the widening work in December 1995,
the verification result was approved by the impacted personal and
affected enterprises.
2.2 Investigation Result
2.2.1 Investigation result of newly-occupied land and impacted
personal
a. The area of the occupied land caused by the widening work is
1



116.95 hectare (1,754.25 mu), where:
--Woodland                       0.75 hectare (11.25 mu)
--Grazing-land                      . hectare (15 mu)
*--Land for cities and towns      1.6 hectare (24 mu)
--Wasteland                     113.6 hectare (1,704 mu)
b. No impacted personal caused by the newly-occupied land
requirement of the widening work.
2.2.2  Investigation result of the affected houses which should
be removed and impacted personal
a. There are 53 houses with a total area of 556.5 sq.m, which
located in the new right-of-way, should be removed, but all of
these houses are not for the dwelling purpose, where:
--Brick and concrete houses        area: 337 sq.m, No.:42
--Brick and wood house              area: 7.5 sq.m, No.:1
--Earth and wood house             area: 212 sq.m, No.:10
b. The number of impacted persons caused by the resettlement of
the widening work is 25 and two enterprises are affected.
2.2.3 Investigation result of newly-occupied other structures and
trees caused by the widening work
--Motor-pumped wells               No.: 3
--Gate                             No.: 1
--Enclosing walls                       50m
--Trees                            No.: 2690
where: mature trees No.: 90
young trees No.: 2600
3.0 COMPENSATION STANDARD AND COST ESTIMATE
3.1 Compensation Standard
Pursuant to the stipulations of relevant laws, the
resettlement compensation of the widening work should include
following aspects:
(1) Compensation fee of land and crops
(2) Compensation fee of houses and other structures
(3) Transition fee
(4) Compensation fee of trees
(5) Others (such as: land management fee, contingency and price
contingency)
3.1.1 Compensation fee of land and crops
(1) Woodland: The compensation fee of land and crops will be
calculated at the rates of five times and twice the annual
average output value in the preceding three years respectively.
The annual average output value per hectare is calculated with
11,400 RMB.
2



(2) Grazing-land: The compensation fee of land and crops will be
calculated at the rates of four times and twice the annual
average output value in the preceding three years respectively.
The annual average output value per hectare is calculated with
3,150 RIE.
(3) Land for cities and towns: The compensation fee of land will
be calculated with 200,000 RMB per hectare, there is no
compensation fee for crops.
(4) Wasteland: It is non-income land, the compensation fee of
land will be calculated with 600 RMB per hectare, there is no
compensation fee for crops.
3.1.2 Compensation fee of houses and other structures
a. Houses: The compensation fee of earth and wood houses will be
calculated with 250 RMB per sq.m, 400 DM3 per sq.m for brick and
wood houses and 600 RMB per sq.m for brick and concrete houses.
b. Other structures: The compensation fee of other structures
will be calculated in accordance with the real situation and
relevant stipulations. Where:. the compensation fee of motor-
pumped well will be calculated with 250,000 RMB each, 50,000 DMB
for each gate and 100 RNB per metre for enclosing walls.
3.1.3 Transition fee: The transition fee will be calculated with
100 RNB per room each month. The transition period is three
months.
3.1.4 Compensation fee of trees
The trees which would be cut for the widening work are normal
trees, the compensation fee will be calculated with 100 RMB for
each mature tree and 50 RDB for each young tree.
3.1.5 Others
a. Land management fee: it will be calculated at 4 percent of the
budgetary estimate of resettlement.
b. Contingency: it will be calculated at 6 percent of the
budgetary estimate of resettlement.
c. Price contingency: it will be calculated at 5 percent of the
budgetary estimate of resettlement.
3.2 Cost Estimate
The cost estimate of the resettlement of the widening work
is 1.9379 million RDB, where: including 467,000 DRX  compensation
fee of land and crops, 1.0632 million RMB compensation fee of
houses and other structures,- 15,900 RMB transition fee, 139,000
RMB compensation fee of trees and 252,800 RMB other fees. For
details, please refer to the annex.
3



4.0 CAPITAL ALLOCATION AND RESETTLEMENT
4.1 Capital Allocation
4.1.1 Compensation fees of crops, houses & other structures,
trees, transition fee and price contingency will be directly paid
to the impacted personal and affected enterprises according to
the agreement signed between the Resettlement Office of Urunqi
County and impacted personal or affected enterprises as the
compensation of their pecuniary loss caused by the resettlement.
4.1.2 Compensation fee of land will be paid to the affected
enterprises caused by land requisition in accordance with the
agreement signed between the Resettlement Office of Urumqi County
and affected enterprises, this compensation fee will be used for
arranging general production and opening up new production ways,
etc.
4.1.3 Land management fee will be kept on by the Resettlement
Offices, it will be used as the training fee, official business
fee, meeting fee and equipment procurement fee for those
resettlement management staff.
4.1.4 Contingency will be mastered by the Resettlement and
Monitoring Office for the payment of all kinds of unexpected
costs.
4.1.5 Resettlement cost forms a proportion of the total budgetary
estimate of TUDE project. it will be directly paid to the
Resettlement and Monitoring Office by Project Execution Office
of Xinj iang High Grade Highway Construction Authority (PEO), then
this amount of money will be transferred to the Resettlement
Office of Urunqi County by the Resettlement and Nonitoring
Office, finally, the Resettlement Office of Urumqi County will
carrying out payment to the impacted personal and affected
enterprises according to the agreement signed between the
Resettlement Office of Urumqi County and impacted personal or
affected enterprises.
4.2 Resettlement
4.2.1 Resettlement of impacted personal caused by land
requisition.
No cultivated land is occupied by the widening work,
therefore, we do not have impacted personal to be resettled.
4.2.2 Resettlement of impacted personal caused by removal of
houses.
a. The Resettlement and Monitoring Office as well as the
Resettlement Office of Urumqi County will carry out investigation
and verification on the total numbers of houses to be removed and
determine the scope of houses to be removed, the investigation
and verification result will be approved by impacted personal and
affected enterprises. This work will be completed by December 20,
4



1595.
b. The Resettlement Office of Urumqi County will promulgate the
house removal scope and time limit by means of putting up Z House
Removal Announcement". In the mean time, the Resettlement Office
of Urumqi County will conduct propaganda and explaination to the
impacted personal and affected enterprises to let them understand
that it will bring about enormous social economic benefit; to
build a high grade highway, also their living condition will not
lower than the original one after the resettlement. The
resettlement time limit is from December 20, 1995 to March 1,
1996.
c. Within the stipulated house removal time limit, the
Resettlement Office of Urumqi County will sign the written
agreement with impacted personal and affected enterprises in
aspects of compensation form, compensation amount, area &
locations of resettled houses, transition time limit and
responsibility for violating the agreement. All of the
compensation amount (including transition fee) will be paid to
those impacted personal and affected enterprises imediately
after the agreement was signed.
d. The impacted personal and affected enterprises will build new
houses at the designated places stipulated in the written
agreement from March 1,1996 to May 10,1996.
e. The Resettlement Office of Urunqi County will completed the
clearing and grubbing before the commencement of the widening
work, the time limit is from March 1,1996 to March 20, 1996.
5.0 COMPLAINT CONSOLATION MMD APPEAL MECHANISM
In order to ensure that the interests and assets of impacted
personal and affected enterprises, which are caused by land
requisition and house removal, will not be invaded or damaged,
any impacted -person or affected enterprise who has grievance
against the resettlement action may lodge a written complaint
with the Resettlement Office of Urumqi County to coordinate it.
If the impacted person or affected enterprise is not satisfied
with the decision given within three weeks, he/she can appeal
against the Resettlement and Monitoring Office whi_h will resolve
the issue.
After the reception of the written complaint, the Resettlement
and Monitoring Office should resolve it within four weeks. If the
impacted person or affected enterprises is not satisfied with the
decision made by the Resettlement and Monitoring Office, he/she
can approach to the People's Court of Urumqi County by means of
Written complaint.
If the impacted person or affected enterprise is not satisfied
with the decision made by the People's Court of Urumqi County,
he/she can approach to the Intermediate People's Court of Urumqi
City which decision so made shall be the final one and shall be
enforced.
6.0 PARTICIPATION ANqD CONSULTATION



The participation and consultation of the public will be
divided into four stages in the course of the land acquisition
and resettlement for the widening work. Through a series of
participation and consultation by the public, it can aot only
ensure us that the completed resettlement action can reflect the
real needs of the impacted personal and affected enterprises, but
also the resettlement action can be carried out smoothly and
assets of impacted personal and affected enterprises can be
satisfied even more.
6.1 Confirmation Stage of the Widening Work
In this stage, the objects of participation and consultation
are the affected local governments at various levels,
representatives of the impacted enterprises and local people. The
main contents are to determine the location, construction scale,
influence and scope of the widening work.
6.2 Preparation Stage of the Resettlement Action Plan
In this stage, the objects of participation and consultation
are the affected local governments, relevant departments,
representatives of the impacted enterprises and people, also
including the enterprises and individuals of accepting areas. The
contents include the investigation on the scale of the
resettlement  and  material  object  index,  social  economic
investigation on impacted personal, determination of compensation
standard and resettlement scheme.
6.3 tmplementation Stage of the Resettlement Action Plan
In this stage, the objects of participation and consultation
are the affected local governments, relevant departments,
representatives of the impacted enterprises and people (including
the enterprises and individuals of accepting areas). The contents
include signing the agreement of resettlement compensation,
allocation of compensation amount, completion status of house
removal, etc. Moreover, we will establish complaint consolation
and appeal mechanism for those affected enterprises and personal,
also tell them the channels for resolving their problems.
6.4 Production and Living Rehabilitation Stage after the
Implementation of Resettlement Action Plan
In this stage, the objects of participation and consultation
are the affected local governments, impacted enterprises and
individuals. The contents include the establishment of social
service system, monitoring on resettlement and assessment, etc.
7.0 MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT
The monitoring for the resettlement action of the widening
work is classified with internal monitoring and external
monitoring.
7.1 Internal Monitoring
6



The internal monitoring work will be completed jointly by the
Resettlement and Monitoring Office and the Resettlement Office
of Urumqi Couhty, which is guided by Xinjiang High Grade Highway
Resettlement Leading Team.
The internal monitoring mainly includes the progress of land
acquisition & house removal, the allocation & utilization status
of compensation amount and implementation status of resettlement
agreement, etc. The written Monitoring Report will be prepared
and submitted by the Resettlement Office of Urumqi County to the
Resettlement and Monitoring Office, the above mentioned main
contents will be included into the written Monitoring Report. The
written Monitoring Report will be continuously submitted every
month until all of the resettlement works are completed.
The Resettlement and Monitoring Office will carry out
assessment on the Monitoring Report shortly after it was
submitted. If there is any problem, the Resettlement and
Monitoring Office as well as the Resettlement Office of Uzuiqi
County  and  affected personal  or  enterprises  will  c6nduct
verification at site and resolve it in time.
7.2 External Monitoring
The external monitoring of the widening work will be
completed by the Resettlement and Monitoring Assessment Team,
which is consisted of three sociologists from Xinjiang Sodial
Scientific Academy.
The main contents of external monitoring include whether the
affected enterprises and impacted persons are satisfied with
their rehabilitated houses, whether the affected enterprised ind
impacted persons are satisfied with locations of the relocated
places comparing with the original places, the incomes increasing
or decreasing status and restoring status of the affected
enterprises and impacted persons after the resettlement, the
remaining problam and suggestions, etc. All of the above
-mentioned contents will be covered into the written Monitoring
Report, also, the written Monitoring Report will be sbhmitted to
the Resettlement and Monitoring Office every two months. Six
months after the completion of the resettlement work, the
Resettlement Monitoring Assessment Team will submit a full copy
of Resettlement Monitoring Assessment Report to the Resettlement
and Monitoring Office.
After the reception of these reports, the Resettlement and
Monitoring Office, jointly with the Resettlement Office of Urugqi
County, will make appropriate resolutions on the problems
mentioned in these reports timely, also the suggestions included
in these reports will be considered to the fullest extent.
7



Annex:
4 e.    C_mptug'h        %Veai4>    G|zJeg-      l"ad tre     WOwghsie     tick A ccc.  tickk & w%=d    Eulh & "ad      Mdir-    "CdIguh3    £ndaiu    uWm stl              Tdd CtG Eh_
Iturn          Q'nI        bad up1    dth, an4    hta.Il        la                am          hona           pumpw  d
IrnBu) I1q.ui?bj 1I' w'Q..                             (.-.   1-w.U1N
1 Q-n47                                    1-    g4                 "71J12         7.1 _srtL      3lrt                       1          "
2. Ctgmnafett r                                                      ....                  .... s.3n  e5                     S          an                            l7
l  1     Ifm lnd*nCt_
1. t ugmndaz   r..                                                  2.22' .'       4              sj             K           S           .IsA
4q T>lInga and2f*Zt                                                                                                  _.I
SCeTrpzetttetbnF~~~~~JL.._._.___.........  0.0                                   U                         _____                                      a
S"5tiat    $ "         1 ~     ~lso  32        4 n          21.4S          833            S 4            7S          S          &A          ag       13      lamr
1. n[Ad Manpm.eM                                                                          ==74
11 J      j    u   l    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _                                      _ _ _ _ _  _                  _ _ _ _ _                =-
.LZzJtdaSuIh.uau.                  _____                 _                          =______                       =_     _                                            In:S
___   SNote:             The_unit  of   cope sa io                        fee    liste_                    __ _nt is t _           __ble_                    _ i             _______R_
Note: The unit of compensation fee listed in this table is 10, 000 RMB.
8



