Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15389-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 30, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1996)
Currency Unit  =   Yuan (Y)
Y1.00       =   $0.12
$1.00      -   YS.2
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)  =  3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)  =  0.62 mile (mi)
I square meter (m2)  -  10.76 square feet (ft2)
I square kilometer(km2)  =  0.4 square miles(mi')
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 (kin2)  =  2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
I mu  =  666.7 m 2= 0.0667 ha
I kilogram (kg)  =  2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (m ton)  =  2,204 pounds (Ibs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
7FYP       -   Seventh Five-Year Plan
SFYP       -   Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP       -   Ninth Five-Year Plan
CMC        -   CMC Intemational Tendering Conipany
E&M        -   Electrical and Mechanical
EA       -   Environmental Assessment
EAP       -   Environmental Action Plan
EIA       -   Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR       -   Economic Intemal Rate of Return
SO           Engineering Supervision Office
FHSDI       -   MOC's First Highway Survey and Design Insdtute
GNP       -   Gross National Product
GOVAI        -   Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HEQMC         -   Highway Engineering Quota Management Center
HGHAB         -   High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau
HMC        -   Highway Maintenance Component
HPDI       -   Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSS       -   Highway Safety Secretariat
ICB       -   Intemational Competitive Bidding
[RI      -   Intemational Roughness Index
JST      -   Joint Supervision Team
LAR       -   Land Acquisition and Resettlement
MOC        -   Ministry of Communicanons
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
MARP      -   Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
NCB       -   National Competitive Bidding
NTHS        -   National Trunk Highway System
PEO            Project Execution Office
PSB       -   Public Security Bureau
PSTP            Public Security's Traffic Police (General Teams)
RAES       -   Research Academy of Environmental Science
RAP       -   Resettlement Action Plan
RMF        -   Road Maintenance Fee
RMO             Resettlement and Monitoring Office
ROW        -   Right-of-way
SOE       -   Statements of Expenditure
SPC       -   State Planning Commission
STC       -   Shihezi Training Center
TIC           Telecommunications Information Center
TUDH        -   Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway
UKH        -   Urumqi-Kuitun Highway
XAR        -   Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
XASS        -   Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences
XCD        -   Xinjiang Communications Department
XCS       -   Xinjiang Communications School
XCTWS        -   Xinjiang Communications Technical Workers School
XHAB        -   Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau
XHEQCC         -   Xinjiang Highway Engineering Quality Control Center
XHGHAB         -   Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau
XHGHCA         -   Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Construction Authority
XHPSDI        -   Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute
XHPI       -   Xinjiang Highway Project I
XHP2       -   Xinjiang Highway Project 2
XTSI       -   Xinjiang Traffic Science Institute



CHINA
SECOND XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China.
Implementing Agency:    Xinjiang Communications Department.
Beneficiaries:           Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
Poverty:                 Not applicable.
Amount:                  $300 million.
Terms:                   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single-currency loans.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.42.
Economic Rate of Return:  20.6 percent for the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway.
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-3643.
Maps:                    IBRD 27621, 27622 and 27623.






CONTENTS
1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS .                 ........................................,I1
A. Background                           .I
B. Traffic                            .I
C. Transport Reforms. 
D. The Highway Subsector                     .2
E. Bank Group Participation                   .4
F. Lessons From Previous Bank Operations            .5
2. XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION TRANSPORT SECTOR ...........7
A. Situation and Economy                     .7
B. Transport Network                       .7
C. Traffic Characteristics and Growth             .9
D. The Vehicle Fleet                       .9
E. Highway Safety .10
F. Highway Administration                    .0
G. Planning, Budgeting and Financing .1
H. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance         .12
I. Highway Development                      .13
3. THE PROJECT   ..14
A. Project Formulation and Preparation .14
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement .14
C. Project Monitoring                      .15
D. Project Scope .16
E. Environmental Assessment .24
F. Land Acquisition and Resettlement .25
G. Cost Estimates .26
H. Financing .27
l. Implementation .29
J. Procurement .31
K. Disbursements .35
L. Auditing .36
M. Project Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring .36
This report is based on the findings of an April 1996 appraisal mission comprising
Yasuhiro Kawabata (Highway Engineer, Task Manager), Robin Carruthers (Transport
Economist), Claude Salem (Institutional/Training Specialist), Tosun Aricanli
(Resettlement Specialist), Ole Sylte (Consultant, Highway Maintenance) and Xin Chen
(Operational Assistant). Messrs. Katsunori Suzuki (Environmental Specialist), Maninder
Gill (Resettlement Specialist), and Richard Muskaug (Consultant, Highway Safety
Specialist) contributed to the preparation of the project. Peer reviewers for the project are
H. Beenhakker (Economics), J. Irigoyen (Engineering) and S. Lundebye (Highway
Safety). The Division Chief is Richard Scurfield and the Department Director is Nicholas
C. Hope.



- 11 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...........................................................                                                     38
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries ...........................................................                                  38
B. Urumqi-Kuitun  Highway ............................................................                                     39
C. Project Risks ............................................................                                              44
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 46
TABLES
Table  1.1:  Traffic Turnover by  Mode, 1980-94 ............................................................    49
Table  1.2:  Road Accident Risks in Various Countries, 1993 ........................................... 50
Table  1.3:  China:  Bank  Group-Financed  Transport Projects ........................................... 51
Table 2.1:  Xinjiang:  Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1985-94 .......................................... 53
Table 2.2:  Xinjiang:  Road Network, 1994 ............................................................                                54
Table 2.3: Xinjiang: Length of Highway by Traffic Mix and ADT, National and
Provincial Roads Only ............................................................                                   54
Table 2.4:  Xinjiang:  Vehicle Fleet, 1985-94 ............................................................                              55
Table 2.5:  Xinjiang:  Road  Accidents (1985-94) ............................................................ 56
Table 2.6:  Xinjiang:  Highway  Revenues and  Expenditures ............................................ 57
Table 2.7: Xinjiang Trunk Highway Improvement Program in 9FYP (1996-2000) ........ 58
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary ............................................................                                         59
Table 3.2:  Estimated  Disbursement Schedule ............................................................                               60
Table 4.1: Actual and Projected Traffic and Traffic Growth in the UKH Corridor ........ 61
Table 4.2: Proportion of Projected Traffic on New and Existing Highway ..................... 62
Table 4.3:  Results of Economic Evaluations for the Whole Route .................................. 63
Table 4.4:  Results of Economic Evaluations ............................................................                                64
Table 4.5:  Sensitivity  of Evaluation  Results to Variations in Toll Level ......................... 65
CHARTS
Chart 1:  Xinjiang  Communications Department (XCD) .................................................. 66
Chart 2: High-Grade Highway Construction and Management Structure ........................ 67
Chart 3:  Xinjiang  Highway  Administration  Bureau  (XHAB) .......................................... 68
ANNEXES
Annex  1: Highway  Maintenance Prograrn ............................................................                                  69
Annex  2:  Institutional Strengthening And Training ......................................................... 74
Appendix 1 To Annex 2: Organizations To Be Strengthened .......................... 75
Appendix  2 To Annex  2:  Training  Program  ..................................................... 78
Appendix  3 To Annex  2:  Total Cost Of Component ....................................... 80
Annex  3:  Highway  Safety  Program  ............................................................                                     81



- 111 -
Annex 4: Terms Of Reference For Strategic Study Of Regional Transport Within
Xinjiang Province And Between Xinjiang And Neighboring Provinces
And Countries ...........................................................                               86
Annex 5: Environmental Assessment And Action Plan Summary ................................... 92
Appendix 1 To Annex 5: Key Elements Of The EAP For
The Urumqi-Kuitun Highway (UKH) ........................................................... 102
Annex 6: Land Acquisition And Resettlement ...........................................................   105
Annex 7: Implementation Schedule ............................................................111
Annex 8: Supervision Mission Plan ............................................................                       114
Annex 9: Proposed Monitoring Indicators ...........................................................                  117
Annex  10: Selected Documents Available In The Project File                              .       .......................... 122
MAPS
1. China: Major Highway Development Program-National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS), IBRD 27621
2. Transport System in Xinjiang Region, IBRD 27622
3. Second Xinjiang Highway Project's Urumqi-Kuitun Highway (UKH), IBRD 27623






- 1 -
1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS,
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   The transport system in China has grown considerably over the last four decades.
Since 1952, the length of the highway system increased by a factor of nine and the length
of the railway network more than doubled. Despite this development, the transport
network is one of the sparsest in the world compared with the area and population it
serves.
B. TRAFFIC
1.2   China had experienced rapid growth of traffic during 1980-89 when the economy
grew at an average annual rate of 9.5 percent. Traffic growth declined when the
economic growth slowed down during 1989-90, as the supply constraints became more
conspicuous. However, resumption of high economic growth since 1991 has brought
about a corresponding surge in transport demand.
1.3   Traffic Growth.  Despite the capacity constraints and related bottlenecks,
between 1980 and 1994 the ton-km of freight have grown at 7.5 percent per year and the
passenger-kilometers at 9.9 percent per year. Highway freight traffic grew at the highest
annual rate of 13.5 percent, compared with 5.7 percent for railway traffic and 8.4 percent
for coastal and inland waterway traffic. Despite its rapid growth, intercity passenger
travel per capita in China remains very low, at about two thirds of the level for India.
Civil aviation traffic is rapidly expanding and has grown 20.3 percent per year since
1980, but still represents a small share of total traffic with most long-distance journeys
made by rail (Table 1.1).
1.4   Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends. Although the railway's share of
traffic has declined over the last decade as the share of road traffic has grown, rail transport
still dominates freight and passenger traffic in China. In 1994, 37.5 percent of freight and
44.3 percent of passenger traffic turnover were attributable to rail, with the remainder
moved by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation.
C. TRANSPORT REFORMS
1.5   In the past decade, China's economic reforms have aimed to increase economic
efficiency through measures designed to reduce national government intervention in the
This chapter is an abstract of the Bank report (No. 1 1819-CHA) China Highway Development and Management
Issues, Options and Strategies, February 1994.



- 2 -
production and distribution process, reduce the Government's deficits and subsidies to
state-owned enterprises, and open the economy by expanding trade and allowing further
participation of private and collective enterprises.
1.6   These initiatives are helping to spur the growth and modernization of the transport
system. To alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize the transport system, the
Government will need to take the following measures by the year 2000:
(a)   increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP, to expand
capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up the backlogs
caused by past underinvestment;
(b)   aim for balanced investments among the major freight transport modes of
railways, highways, and waterways in terms of optimal economic cost of
transport;
(c)   realign further the prices of freight transport services and those of the major
commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to their real costs;
(d)   increase further the productivity of existing transport assets through
technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e)   improve and expand the multimodal transport system, both across and
within modes, with particular emphasis on more extensive use of containers.
D. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
The National Highway Network and its Utilization
1.7   China's road network consists mainly of aging roads with neither the capacity nor
strength to carry current and projected future traffic. Many of the roads need upgrading
in addition to normal maintenance and rehabilitation. A Bank policy study on road
deterioration in developing countries classified China among the countries with an
extensive and obsolete road network in need of modernization to meet the rapid growth in
road transport demand. Its outmoded maintenance technology would not be sufficient to
arrest the accelerated deterioration of the aging road system network. China needs to
mobilize domestic and external resources for modernizing its road system.
1.8   The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the country's rapid
economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy of shifting short-
haul transport from rail to road as well as the expansion of the service sector and rural
industries. Furthermore, with the increase in foreign trade, growth in transport demand
will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands
and, with containerization of higher-value commodities, most domestic movements of
this foreign trade are expected to go by road.
1.9   Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly steady at an average annual rate of
12.3 percent over the last 12 years, with particularly strong growth in small passenger



vehicles.  Growth in the tractor and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply, with
motorcycles showing the strongest growth of all vehicle types. The tractor and motorcycle
fleets, at 5.4 million and 6.5 million respectively, well exceed the size of the truck and bus
fleet. Tractors and motorcycles contribute significantly to traffic congestion and are among
the major causes of road accidents.
1.10  The trucking industry consists of publicly-owned trucks operated by trucking
companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway authorities, and other trucks
operated by factories, cooperative organizations and, recently, private individuals. The
relaxation of trucking regulations in the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factories and cooperatives and thus promoted competition between public
and own-account trucks. Market forces are expected to play a more important role in
shaping the industry in the future.
1.11   Road safety is an important issue in the development of China's road sector, as
traffic continues to grow rapidly on all roads and a high-speed, national highway network
is developed. The frequency and numbers of people involved in traffic accidents have
reached serious proportions in China. The annual fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles in
China is 46, as compared with rates of 33 in India, 12 in Indonesia, 9 in Thailand, and 2
in the United States, and the United Kingdom (Table 1.2). However, the annual fatality
rate per 100,000 population in China is the same or less than that for developed countries.
This reflects the low motorization rates (vehicles per 1,000 population) in China.. The
social and economic costs of these accidents to the Chinese economy reached almost $1
billion annually.2
1.12  Responsibility for highway safety matters was transferred from the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) and the provincial Communications Departments to the Ministry
of Public Security and its provincial units in 1988. This decision created transitional
administrative problems. Cooperation between the provincial highway administration
bureaus and the concemed public security units is still weak. The Bank-financed Xinjiang
Highway Project (Loan 3787) and the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project (Loan 3530)
contain pilot programs that address the traffic accident black spot problem.
Highway Administration, Planning and Finance
1. 13  Administration of the highway network is the responsibility of the provincial
governments, through the Highways Bureaus of the Provincial Communications
Departments. The central government's MOC provides general policy guidance and
support to the provinces through its nationwide policies and regulations, specifying
design  and  construction  standards.   However, the Provincial Communications
Departments are financially independent of MOC and carry out all road planning,
construction, maintenance, and operation of roads and waterways in the provinces.
2  The costs analyzed in this case included loss of life, injury, property damage, reduced productivity, and medical,
funeral, and legal costs.



- 4 -
1.14   While the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is responsible
for planning and investment strategies for the development of the National Highway
System. MOC has been evolving a long-term strategy for the systematic upgrading of the
national system in key corridors over a 30-year planning horizon. Known as the National
Trunk Highway System (NTHS), the system, comprising 12 major roads for the exclusive
use of motor vehicles (Map IBRD 27621) would connect all the provincial capitals and
cities with populations exceeding 500,000. Development of the NTHS has been accorded
highest priority in investment planning for the highway sector.  Priority for early
construction is being given to two north-south corridors (Beijing-Zhuhai and Tongjiang-
Harbin-Shenyang-Qingdao-Shanghai-Fuzhou-Guangzhou-Sanya); two east-west corridors
(Lianyungang-Zhengzhou-Xian-Lanzhou-Urumqi-Houerguosi  and   Shanghai-Nanjing-
Jiujiang-Wuhan-Chengdu) and the three corridors of Beijing-Shanghai, Beijing-Shenyang
and Chongqing-Behai, and to those routes already identified as congested and hindering
economic activity.
1.15   A system for funding highway construction and maintenance is well established.
The main revenues are generated by the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF), typically levied on
the revenue of freight and passenger transport companies and on the capacity of own-
account vehicles. The RMF is levied by the provinces who retain the majority of the
monies after remitting a portion to Central Government agencies. MOC also directly
receives revenues from the Added Vehicle Purchase Fee, a supplementary earmarked tax on
vehicle imports and sales, and uses these funds, which currently reach about
Y 2 billion/year, to contribute financing for: (a) the roads included in the national highway
network, providing a higher share of financing for the poorer, inland provinces and a lower
share for the richer, coastal provinces, and (b) construction or rehabilitation of rural roads
located in economically less-developed areas.
E. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION
1.16   The Bank Group has supported initiatives by the Government in the transport
sector through loans and credits totaling $5.6 billion for 34 projects (Table 1.3). The
various studies under the Bank-financed projects have, inter alia, emphasized the areas of
multimodal transport investment and the setting of sectoral priorities based on
systemwide economic evaluation techniques.3
Transport Sector Work
1.17   Recent Bank Group reports on the transport sector include China's Railway
Strategy (No. 10592-CHA, February 1993), Highway Development and Management:
3   Six of the studies have explored multimodal pricing and investment issues in a more comprehensive and more
economically oriented analytical framework than was formerly available to China's decisionmakers: the
Guangdong Comprehensive Transport Planning Study (GCTPS); the Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study
(YEZTS); the Coal Transport Study (CTS); the Railway Investment Study (RIS); the Southeast Coastal Region
Strategic Issues in Ports and Shipping Development Study (SIPS); and the Price Reform Study.



Issues, Options and Strategies (No. 1181 9-CHA, February 1994), and Strategies for Road
Freight Development (No. 12600-CHA, January 1995). In addition, studies on the
trucking industry and highway financing have been completed under ongoing projects, a
study of the provincial road construction industry is being undertaken under the Fujian
Provincial Highway Project, a study of interprovincial traffic facilitation and a highway
capacity study are being undertaken under the National Highway Project (Hebei/Henan),
a study of intercity passenger transport is being carried out under the Xinjiang Highway
Project, and a study of highway maintenance is included in the Second Shaanxi
Provincial Highway Project. In addition, a study for improved prioritization of highway
investments and improved highway feasibility study methodology has been completed by
January 1996. The Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport
system in the mid-1980s, which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the large
potential of the Chinese waterways. Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are currently
preparing a comprehensive transport sector strategy paper that is expected to help guide
sector development in a consistent, cohesive policy framework.
The Bank's Experience and Strategy in Highways
1.18  Of the 13 Bank-assisted highway projects in China, two have so far been
completed (the First Highway Project and the Shaanxi Highway Project). The former
project achieved its original objectives and demonstrated the benefits of improved
accessibility to economically less-developed regions.  Furthermore, the Bank's
involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in the contracting for road works in
preference to force account operations.
1.19 The Bank strategy for highway lending in the medium term is detailed in Highway
Development and Management: Issues, Options and Strategies. The strategy is to continue
supporting institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing the
highway system and its management, and supporting investments focused on high-priority
links of the NTHS and the provincial road networks that feed into it.
1.20  While some institutional development and sectoral reform  components will
normally be included in every project, specific issues identified during the Bank's dialogue
with the government, will be addressed selectively in individual provincial projects. During
the next few years, the projects' investment components will continue to focus on high-
priority links of the national highway system and support the development of the provincial
road networks.
F. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS
1.21  Previous highway projects in China emphasize the importance of rigorous, early
preparation for major civil, and electrical and mechanical works and for procurement
processes, where tendering often takes longer than expected. Advance preparation of
bidding documentation and independent design reviews have also fostered smooth
implementation and have helped reduce variations during the implementation period.
The  design  of  electrical  and  mechanical  facilities  (traffic  monitoring,



- 6 -
telecommunications, tolling and lighting) must be advanced so that these works would be
finished shortly after completion of the civil works for high-grade highways.
1.22  Land acquisition and resettlement of affected people have also led to
implementation difficulties, including delays, in Chinese highway projects.  The
institutional requirements for resettlement of a large number of people are significant;
under the proposed project, resettlement has received considerable attention to ensure
institutional capability to provide adequate compensation and to implement Resettlement
Action Plans.
1.23  Experience in the environmental area in China has generally been favorable.
However, more attention should be paid to environmental supervision during
construction, training of environmental personnel, and environmental monitoring during
both the construction and operation phases.
1.24  Bank experience emphasizes the importance of adequate construction quality of
roads. Construction quality has also been highlighted as a sector issue for Bank highway
projects.  Effective remedial actions include careful formulation of supervision
arrangements, including engagement of foreign experts, training of local supervision staff
and equipping the supervision teams with the necessary laboratory equipment, surveying
instruments, transportation and telecommunications facilities.
1.25 There is a growing concern that adequate funding for highway maintenance is not
now being generated to cover an expanding and more expensive highway system.
Experience with rural highways in Africa and South Asia and with the Bank's Shaanxi
Highway Project in China has shown that provision of basic access through all-weather
roads and provision of nonnotorized transport are effective means of reducing poverty in
rural areas, especially when combined with programs for socioeconomic development.
1.26 Based on the Bank's experience with institutional and policy aspects of highway
projects, the phasing of studies and technical assistance and the intensity of Bank
supervision are important for positive, sustainable outcomes. Systematic supervision and
follow-up of the findings of studies and technical assistance components by Bank
missions also enhance project outcomes. Ultimately, the success of the road safety
component of the project depends upon the Borrower's commitment to the objectives of
the component and its ability to ensure effective coordination between the Public Security
Bureau (Traffic Police) and the Highway Department-the main two agencies involved
in the implementation of this component.



-7 -
2. XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. SITUATION AND ECONOMY
2.1   Xinjiang is the largest of China's provinces and autonomous regions, with a land
of 1.6 million km2 (15 percent of China's total land area). The Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region (XAR) is surrounded locally by Gansu and Qinghai Provinces and
the Tibet Autonomous Region and eight foreign countries-Mongolia, Russia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgystan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India (see Map IBRD
27622). The climate is harsh, very cold in winter and hot in summer, with an annual
rainfall of only 150 mm. Xinjiang's current population is about 16.3 million (1.36
2
percent of China's total). The average population density is a low 10.2 persons/km (8
percent of China's average). About 48 percent of the population in Xinjiang is urbanized;
its capital Urumqi, has a population of about 1.4 million.
2.2   Xinjiang is rich in mineral resources including coal, petroleum and natural gas.
Also, agricultural and animal production has been increasing. Xinjiang has become an
important production area of grain and cotton in China and has large livestock herds,
especially sheep. The gross output value of agriculture and industry (GOVAI) increased
at an annual rate of 19.7 percent during 1980-94 and reached about Y 89.7 billion in
1994. GOVAI per capita in 1994 for the Region (Y 5,540) was about the same as that for
China, whereas the corresponding figure for Urumqi (Y 6,432) was about 116 percent of
that for China.
2.3   The core of the current economy of Xinjiang, located on the north slope of the
Tianshan Mountains contains the main industrial developments in the Region such as
petroleum, petrochemicals, coal, electric power, iron and steel, building materials, textiles
and food industries. It accounts for 43 percent of the total number of industrial
enterprises, 70 percent of the industrial output and 21 percent of the agricultural output of
the Region. Moreover, it contains four (Urumqi, Shihezi, Kuitun and Bole) of the six
open cities in the Region. The development of this area is supported by the only railroad
in the Region and the two main arterial crossroads of Xingxingxia-Urumqi-Yining Road
and Altay-Urumqi-Hotan Road.
B. TRANSPORT NETWORK
2.4   Xinjiang is served by a sparse network of railways, highways, civil aviation and a
pipeline (Map IBRD 27622). The Region has presently only one main railway line
(1,803 km), which connects Xingxingxia with Alataw Shankou as an extension of the
Lanzhou-Xinjiang (Lan-Xin) railway line, and branches at Daheyan to reach Korla.



- 8 -
Double tracking of the Wuweinan (Gansu Province)-Urumqi section has been completed,
which would increase its transport capacity from the present 11 million tons per year to
35 million tons per year.
2.5   The airline network of Xinjiang consists of 12 airports, of which Urumqi is
classified as international. The network consists of 12 intraregional air routes and 24
interregional air routes, as well as four international flights to Almatay, Istanbul,
Tajikistan and Moscow. The total length of the network is about 53,715 km. The
number of passengers carried by air has increased at a rapid pace (31.5 percent per year)
from 89,000 in 1985 to 1,060,000 in 1994 (Table 2.1).
2.6   The pipeline system in Xinjiang is a local service conveying crude oil from the
Tarim and Jungar fields to railheads. Oil production has increased from 5.58 million tons
in 1980 to 16.5 million tons in 1994 (or a 8.1 percent increase per year). The total length
of the pipeline system in Xinjiang is 875 km, which presently transports 8.81 million tons
annually.
2.7   Xinjiang's highway system extends about 28,611 km, of which only 38 km  (0.1
percent of the total) are Class I roads, 4,132 km (14.4 percent of the total) are Class II
roads, 8,554 km (30.0 percent of the total) are Class III, 12,172 km (42.6 percent of the
total) are Class IV roads, and the remainder are tracks (Table 2.2). The Xinjiang
Highway Project I (XHP1), which includes the East-West (between Turpan and Urumqi)
and North-South (between Dahuangshan and Urumqi) corridors, has been successfully
implemented since March 1995 as the first Bank-financed highway project in Xinjiang.
The administrative classification of the road system in 1994 was as follows:
km              Percent
National               8,533              29.8
Provincial             6,797             23.8
County                10,223             35.7
Township                852                3.0
Other                  2,206               7.7
Total            28.611             100.0
2.8   Highways provide the only means of transport for large areas of the Region. The
density of the system is only 1.79 km per 100 km , which is equivalent to one seventh of
the national average. Most of the existing highway network were initially built to gravel
standard and then later overlayed with a bituminous surface treatment without adequate
pavement strengthening. These roads have now inadequate structural strength to cope
with the growing traffic. The regional government is giving high priority to repairing and
strengthening these roads and to expansion of the highway network, especially Class III
and IV roads.



-9.-
C. TRAFFIC CHARACTERISTICS AND GROWTH
2.9   Over the 1985-94 period, traffic has been rising strongly in all modes, with
highway transport dominating both freight and passenger services. In 1994, highways
transported 98 percent of the passengers and 64 percent of the passenger-kilometers and
92 percent of the freight tons and 40 percent of the ton-kilometers in Xinjiang (Table
2.1). Railways carried a lesser portion of freight tonnage and the largest amount of ton-
kilometers of freight, reflecting the very long haul distances (900 km by rail vs. about
40 km by road). Air transport, albeit very small, is playing an increasingly important role
in Xinjiang because of the long distances between cities and the small size of the highway
network and its limited geographic distribution. Highway traffic, nevertheless, rose at
high rates, 10.4 percent per year for freight ton-miles and 20.0 percent per year for
passenger-kilometers (Table 2.1).
2.10  The highway traffic growth rates are reflected in the changes in traffic densities on
some of the 15,300 km of National and Provincial Roads in the Region (Table 2.3). In
1985, about eight percent of the National and Provincial Road network carried more than
2,000 motor vehicles per day (mvpd). By 1994, the sections carrying more than 2,000
mvpd had increased to 17 percent of the network, while the length of roads carrying over
5,000 mvpd had reached 420 km.
2.11  During 1986-94, the total length of Class III and IV roads was increased by about
3,800 km and 6,100 km, respectively. In 1985, highways transported 34 million
passengers, growing to 310 million passengers in 1994, which represents an annual
growth rate of about 27.8 percent.
2.12  Highway traffic includes slow-moving vehicles, mainly tractors of various sizes,
bicycles and other nonmotorized vehicles. In 1994, this slow-moving traffic accounted
for about eight percent (in the converted traffic volume) of all motorized traffic in major
urban areas. The sections of the existing UKH between Urumqi and Wugongtai and
within city limits of Manasi, Shihezi and Shawan along the existing Route 312 has the
worst traffic congestion.
D. THE VEHICLE FLEET
2.13  The total vehicle fleet has expanded rapidly (12.3 percent per year for motorized
vehicles) in the nine years between 1985 and 1994 (Table 2.4). During this period, the
fleets of medium- and small-size trucks, and small buses and passenger cars grew by 33
percent and 21 percent per year, respectively, reflecting the growth in prosperity and also
the light-vehicle needs of the growing number of smaller enterprises in the economy.
Also, motorcycles registered an impressive annual growth rate of 36 percent. Tractors,
which reached 194,000 units in 1994, are mainly used for agricultural purposes, but also
travel on the roads.



- 10-
E. HIGHWAY SAFETY
2.14  Highway safety is a serious problem in Xinjiang, as elsewhere in China. In 1994
alone, 1,712 persons were killed and 2,884 persons were injured in the 4,490 accidents
reported to the police in that year (Table 2.5). The severity of accidents (the number
killed in relation to the total number killed and injured) is also high. International
comparisons of the number killed in traffic accidents per 10,000 vehicles show that the
rate in Xinjiang is about 30 times higher than that for Western Europe and North
America.
2.15  Most responsibility for matters affecting highway safety lies with the Traffic
Police of the Public Security Bureau (PSB), including that for vehicle inspection, driver
training, propaganda on safety, imposition of fines, driver licensing, enforcement of
traffic laws, related traffic management, highway patrols and all aspects of accident
control, reporting, investigation and research.   The Xinjiang Communications
Department (XCD) retains responsibility for all matters concerning safe highway designs
and traffic control devices.
F. HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
2.16  XCD controls all highway undertaking in the Region. XCD reports directly to the
regional government and acts as its administrative arm for planning, budgeting and
financing of highway transport in the Region.
2.17  The administration of the road network in the Region takes place at three levels:
(a) Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau (XHAB), (b) general highway bureaus in
each district and prefecture, and (c) local-level highway units of the county highway
bureaus. XCD administers the regional highways through XHAB, and municipal and
county transport bureaus administer local highways and village roads. Apart from the
high-grade highways such as TUDH and UKH, XHAB is responsible for all highway
matters, including construction and maintenance, but receives professional and technical
guidance from the Engineering Administration Department of MOC. It has a staff of 161.
The 15 municipal and prefectural highway bureaus and the 83 county bureaus in the
region have a total staff of about 17,700, of which technical personnel are 870.
2.18 The Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (XHGHCA) (through
its Project Execution Office-PEO) is presently responsible for the construction of high-
grade highways and is also taking a role as the High-Grade Highway Administration
Bureau, which is in charge of the direction, coordination, planning, design, construction,
supervision, operation, and maintenance of high-grade highway projects in the Region.
The multiagency Authority is led by a Vice Governor of Xinjiang People's Government
(as Director-General) and by the Director of XCD (Deputy Director General). The PEO
is responsible for raising construction funds, including collection of tolls on these
highways, and paying back bank loans. It currently has a staff of about 80 and this
number will be increased as the scope of work is expanded.



G. PLANNING, BUDGETING AND FINANCING
2.19  Planning. XCD has overall responsibility for planning, construction, operation
and maintenance of the regional highway network. The prefectural and county authorities
have considerable autonomy in planning smaller road investments, but this is subject to
the approval of XCD. Each administrative group prepares investment plans for the
highway network under its jurisdiction and submits them to the planning division of XCD
by June of each year for the next year's plan. XCD approves the next year's plan for each
county or local authority concerned before the end of March. Similarly, using inputs
from lower-level administrative groups, XCD prepares the five-year road development
plan, reflecting national or regional development policy guidelines and objectives.
2.20  Budgeting. XCD's planning division adopts a balanced budget policy. The
proposed highway expenditures are balanced against the revenues earmarked for highway
development; the amount of investment approved for each year is closely related to the
revenues expected for the same year.
2.21   Financing. Highway funding sources and expenditures are summarized in Table
2.6. Data for 1994 are displayed in Figure 2.1. Funding for highway construction and
maintenance comes from several sources, but by far the largest source is the road
maintenance fee (RMF), which provided Y 860 million (about 81 percent) of all highway
ftunding (Y 1,063 million) for the Region in 1994. This fee is collected by XCD from
motor vehicles throughout the Region. XCD retains all revenues from RMF after the
following are paid:   Y  15 million to the Ministry of Finance's Energy and
Communication Fund; Y 10 million to the State Planning Commission (SPC)-controlled
Budget Adjustment Fund; and PSB for their highway patrol and administrative operations
(about 2.5 percent of the maintenance fee after deducting Y 25.0 million for energy and
communications fund and the budget adjustment fund). The RMF retained by XCD
increased from about Y 289 million in 1986 to Y 814 million in 1994. The RMF is
levied monthly on vehicles owned by transport companies as a percentage of their
financial turnover (presently 15 percent of gross revenue). Other vehicles are charged a
monthly fee (presently Y 170 per month per payload ton).
Figure 2.1: HIGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES IN XINJIANG IN 1994
Periodic
MOC grant                     maintenance
14 1%                  Routine      ECFBAFP
maintenance    43%
_        t~~~~~~Lcl contfi-  9-   
/ _ ~~~butions                 \Rehab. new
/5 oN.      Administration  tonst
Road main-                            expenaes               49 6%
tenance fee                          O7th/          ___
SO 9Y.   2                  /       _       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other
maintenance
Othert     16 2%
Revenue                      4  Expenditures



- 12 -
2.22  Other sources of revenues include grants from MOC, which provided Y 150
million (14 percent of total) in 1994, and locally collected capital and self-raised finds
with an aggregate amount of Y 52 million (5 percent). The Region also raises highway
funds by adding a passenger tariff surcharge, currently 1.0 fen per passenger-km. The
total amounts collected from this sources were Y 33.1 million in 1991 and Y 42.0 million
in 1994 and have been used for construction of transportation terminals. In addition to
road user charges discussed above, substantial fuel taxes are levied, but these accrue to
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and are not allocated back to highway funding. Fuel
taxes currently amount to 43 percent of the base price of gasoline and 13 percent of the
base price of diesel fuels.
H. ENGINEERING, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
2.23  Engineering. Road and bridge projects are designed by the planning and design
institutes at the national, regional, prefectural and county levels. The Xinjiang Highway
Planning, Survey and Design Institute (XHPSDI) is qualified for Class I roads and is
responsible for all major road, bridge and tunnel projects. It carries out most of the work
itself but also uses the services of MOC's design institutes and private consulting firms
outside the region on a contract basis. Due to overload of design works, both preliminary
and detailed designs for UKH were entrusted to the MOC's First Highway Survey and
Design Institute in Xian (FHSDI). The design institutes at the municipal and county
levels are responsible for lower-grade county and township road design works.
2.24  Construction Supervision.  Xinjiang Highway Engineering Quality Control
Center (XHEQCC) is responsible for quality testing and overall supervision of all
transport projects in the Region. Construction of roads and bridges is supervised by
personnel from county, city and prefectural units. Generally, these units have relatively
competent personnel to supervise the works adequately. The Engineering Supervision
Office (ESO) of XHGHCA, approved by MOC, has been carrying out the supervision of
high-grade highways in Xinjiang.
2.25  Construction. XCD's Highway Engineering Division is normally responsible for
the construction of key highway projects in the Region. XHGHCA is responsible for the
management and construction of high-grade highways. The municipal and county
highway bureaus have their own construction units to carry out construction of minor
projects within their administrative districts. However, in recent years competitive
bidding has been introduced in the Region, following the SPC directive that all major
civil works be awarded after competitive bidding. Many of the larger regional and urban
construction bureaus, railway engineering and mining engineering units have been
reorganized into financially independent contracting companies. Thus, the construction
units under the communication departments of the various cities and provinces can also
participate in transprovincial bidding activities.
2.26  Maintenance. Highway maintenance is carried out by county highway bureaus
under the control of municipal authorities. Maintenance is generally labor-intensive, but



- 13 -
is neither well-organized nor well-carried out. Only about 57 percent (5,500 km) of the
paved network maintained by XHAB is rated as being in good condition. The average
International Roughness Index (IRI) calculated from the survey data on 9,700 km of
paved roads was found to be 6.7 mm/m of road. This very high average road surface
roughness indicates that many pavements are in a state of serious distress and that they
have suffered from low quality maintenance operations. The poor condition of the
highway network is due in part to the insufficient allocation of financial and budgetary
resources to maintenance.  To ensure that adequate maintenance is carried out,
assurances were obtained at negotiations from XAR that XCD would, by March 30 of
each year commencing in 1997 and ending in 2003, furnish an annual highway
maintenance report covering all national and provincial roads for the Bank's review and
comments, which would: (a) show the length of each class of road by condition (good,
fair, and bad); (b) establish targets for the following year, including an estimate of the
required physical works (routine maintenance, periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading) and the cost thereof; and (c) measure the results and the actual expenditures
against the targets and the budgeted funds thereof
I. HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT
2.27  Xinjiang's investments in highways have increased from Y 2.4 billion during the
7FYP (1986-1990) to Y 5.1 billion during the 8FYP (1991-95) and to a projected 14.1
billion (1996-2000). Details of the proposed expenditure under the 9FYP are shown in
Table 2.6.
2.28  The short term (five years ) plans, which form the basis of the proposals for the
9FYP, include completion of the TUDH by September 1998 and the proposed UKH by
September 2000. Details of the proposals are shown in Tables 2.7. The medium-term
(15 years) plans include construction of the Xingxingxia-Urumqi-Yining and Altay-
Urumqi-Hotan main arterial roads, comprising 392 km of Expressways, 540 km of Class
I highway, and other improvements to a total of 3,800 km of roads.
2.29  Realization of the short-term plans would imply an increase in expenditures of
more than 200 percent compared with the previous five-year plan period. Although
revenue projections indicate that this is feasible, these projections are predicated on a
continued high rate of growth of the regional economy and a consequent continuing high
rate of growth of the vehicle fleet and demand for road transport. Should these revenue
projections turn out to be optimistic, it is probable that the planned new construction
program would be rephased over a longer period.
2.30  In addition, there is a risk that any shortfall in projected revenue would put at risk
the proposed increase in reconstruction and maintenance expenditure. Although this
expenditure is projected to increase in both proportional (from 15 percent of total high
expenditure under the 8FYP to 20 percent under the 9FYP) absolute terms, XCD is aware
of the need to increase maintenance expenditure even further (Table 2.6).



- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT FORMULATION AND PREPARATION
3.1   The support of high development in Xinjiang is particularly important since
highways provide the only means of transport for large areas of the Region. One of its
key transport corridors is the heavily traveled east-west corridor along National Highway
No. 312 from Urunmqi to Turpan in the east and to Kuitun and the Kazakhstan border in
the west. This route is a key strategic link among the 12 national trunk routes in the
NTHS. Following the identification/preparation mission in April 1995, the preappraisal
mission was sent in October 1995. The project was appraised in April 1996.
3.2   The Xinjiang Highway Project (TUDH) has been successfully implemented since
March 1995 as the first Bank-financed highway project in Xinjiang. Although it is still
too early to evaluate the full implementation of the project, substantial experience has
been accumulated through the preparation and implementation of the project.
International supervision consultants have been extensively involved in the actual work
rather than simply acting as advisors to the construction agency. This set-up contributes
to an improvement in construction quality and compliance with the planned
implementation schedule. Consequently, this set-up would also be applied for the UKH.
The other important lessons learned from XHP1 concerns road maintenance. To ensure
that adequate funds would be allocated to the highway maintenance program, the Bank
was involved in the planning of the sources and uses of highway funds in Xinjiang for the
9FYP. Furthermore, for the first time in the highway sector in China, a portion of the
Bank's loan ($30 million) would be used to finance priority physical maintenance
activities. Road sections to be rehabilitated under this program were determined on the
basis of results of a highway maintenance study financed under XHP 1.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.3   The proposed project builds on the achievement of the ongoing Bank-assisted
XHP1. The project has the following objectives:
(a)   support development of road infrastructure to relieve congestion, and
stimulate socioeconomic development in the UKH corridor;
(b)   improve maintenance of the regional highway network;
(c)   promote development of institutional capacities of XCD, through training
and other means;
(d)   increase highway safety; and



- 15-
(e)   promote transport linkages with neighboring provinces and countries.
3.4   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for China, presented to the Board on June 1, 1995, and the Progress Report
discussed on March 26, 1996 support China's strategy to alleviate infrastructure
bottlenecks by, inter alia, rapidly modernizing and expanding its highway system. The
proposed project would further this goal by rehabilitating and maintaining the existing
highway network through the proposed highway maintenance program and implementing
the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway segment of the NTHS. Furthermore, Bank assistance to
NTHS construction would facilitate interprovincial and international trade and promote
long-distance and transit road traffic, while furthering the liberalization, facilitation and
cost reduction of transport, key requirements for market-oriented reforms to succeed.
Bank support is also justified by providing a technical assistance to a strategic study of
transport linkages between Xinjiang and neighboring provinces and countries.
C. PROJECT MONITORING
3.5   Project impact would be monitored with respect to the project objectives (PO), the
key indicators of which are listed below.
Po (a):     (i) reduced congestion levels on roads parallel to the proposed new road
(ii) increased average travel speeds on roads parallel to the proposed new
road
PO (b):     (i) improved road surface roughness on the paved road network
(ii) increased segments of national and provincial roads in fair and good
condition
PO (c):     (i) reduced numbers of traffic accidents and fatalities on existing roads
In Annex 9, the following are delineated:
(a)   More specific description of monitoring indicators;
(b)   Baseline values;
(c)   Mid-term benchmarks
(d)   Interim benchmarks; and
(e)   Target benchmarks.



- 16-
3.6   The achievement of project output would be tracked by monitoring indicators,
listed below. Project output can be defined as immediate project targets and initial flows
of services, such as physical quantity (length of road constructed); institutional
strengthening (training achieved), and quality (road surface roughness, safety initiatives).
The following monitoring indicators were set up for some of the key project components.
There are time-bound monitorable targets that would be described either as actual
physical outputs or as a percentage of components implemented.
Monitoring Indicators:
(a)   UKH civil works completed
(b)   roads under the highway maintenance and rehabilitation program
completed;
(c)   progress made in the implementation of the training component for XCD
and its affiliated institutions;
(d)   black spots improvement completed; and
(e)   signing and marking on highways completed.
The proposed monitorable targets are shown in Annex 9.
D. PROJECT SCOPE
3.7   The scope of the project includes:
(a)   Construction of a 267.4 km highway (UKH) on new right-of-way (ROW)
between Urumqi and Kuitun (Map, IBRD 27623) which consists of:
(i)   a 218.3 km 4-lane expressway between Urumqi and Kuitun;
(ii)    a 32.4 km bypass to the west of Urumqi, including an 18.5 km 2-
lane Class 2 motor vehicle only highway and a 13.9 km 4-lane
Class 1 highway; and
(iii)    a 16.7 km 4-lane Class I highway which links UKH with the
Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway (TUDH).
(b)   UKH would be operated as a toll facility. This would entail:
(i)   supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical
equipment for toll collection, telecommunication and lighting of
bridges, interchanges and toll collection area; and



- 17-
(ii)   construction along UKH  of management and maintenance
buildings, parking and service areas.
(c)   Construction, rehabilitation and upgrading sections of 4 linking roads with
a total length of about 18.8 km.
(d)   Construction supervision of UKH and its linking roads.
(e)   Highway maintenance program to maintain and rehabilitate about 2,450
km of the existing highway network during the 9FYP.
(f)   Provision of equipment for:
(i)   control of construction quality during the construction of UKH and
linking roads;
(ii)   operation and maintenance of UKH;
(iii)    maintenance of the regional highway network;
(iv)   institutional strengthening of XCD and related institutions; and
(v)   highway safety component.
(g)   Institutional development consisting of strengthening relevant institutions
and training schools affiliated with XCD.
(h)   A highway safety program consisting of improvement of black spots, road
signing and marking works, and training programs.
(i)   A strategic study of regional transport.
Construction of UKH
3.8   The total length of the existing road (National Highway No. 312) from Urumqi to
Kuitun is 262 km. The highway standard is Class II (except for about 30 km of Class I
road immediately west of Urumqi) with no separation of the motorized and slow-moving
traffic. The projected traffic cannot be accommodated by the existing road beyond 1998
at an acceptable level of service. Widening of the existing road would not be feasible
because of the extensive side development along several townships and the poor
construction of the existing pavement and drainage structures.



- 18 -
3.9   Slow-moving vehicles such as tractors and bicycles will not be allowed access to
UKH. Access to and from UKH would be provided at 16 interchanges. UKH also
includes about 32 grade separations, 8 long bridges, 5 medium-size bridges, 51 small
bridges, 166 underpasses to provide access to adjacent property, and about 561 culverts.
The pavement structure is asphalt concrete with a total thickness ranging between 53 and
67 cm.
3.10  UKH would be operated as an open toll highway. Three toll plazas on the main
roadway and five tolling stations on the interchange ramps are planned. In addition to
civil works, UKH includes:  (a) the electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M)
installations required for toll collection, telecommunications, power supply, and lighting;
(b) construction of four service areas and four parking areas; and (c) four management
and maintenance buildings to be located at Urumqi, Changji, Shihezi and Kuitun.
3.11  The preliminary engineering designs of UKH were prepared by FHSDI and
reviewed by Italian experts under the Italian Trust Funds.  MOC approved the
preliminary engineering designs in May 1995. The detailed engineering designs and bid
documents were completed in October 1995 and were reviewed by the same Italian
experts in October 1995. SPC approved the final engineering designs in December 1995.
3.12  Linking Roads. On the basis of a comprehensive review of all the linking roads
along UKH, XCD selected four provincial roads, with a total length of 18.8 kin, for new
construction, upgrading and reconstruction. Due to the short length of these roads, no
separate bid documents were prepared for them; instead they are included within the
corresponding documents for UKH.
Supervision of Construction of UKH and Linking Roads
3.13  Based on the experience gained from completed and ongoing Bank-financed
highway projects in China including XHPI, a combined team of local engineers,
technicians and other personnel and international consultants would be set up to supervise
the construction of the UKH and linking roads. The organizational arrangements and
Terms of Reference for supervision of the UKH have been drawn up by PEO and were
found to be adequate. The international supervising engineers would be integrated into
the organization with operational responsibilities.  Furthermore, the international
consultants would help establish procedures at all levels of the supervisory work,
including on-site inspections and laboratory testing, and train local staff both through
formnal training sessions and on-the-job.
3.14  A team composed of about 312 local staff and 7 international experts was agreed
for the supervision of UKH and linking roads. They would be retained until completion
of the construction of UKH. The international firm supplying the experts would also
provide three trainers to train 150 staff locally for one month and 30 staff abroad for one
month. The total effort by the international staff is estimated at about 216 person-
months, composed of 183 person-months for supervision of civil works, 11 person-
months for supervision of the electrical and mechanical facilities component, 3 person-



- 19-
months for training both locally and abroad, and 19 person-months as contingency to be
used for unforeseen specialist services to be used if and when needed.
Highway Maintenance
3.15  In order to tackle highway maintenance problems, XCD carried out a highway
network maintenance study financed under XHP1. The study proposes a four-year
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, which would be aimed at stabilizing the
conditions of the existing network at a maintainable level by strengthening the seriously
deteriorated pavement structures and by overlaying rehabilitation of most needed
sections. The four-year program was prepared based on an annual budget ceiling of about
Y 185 million ($22 million), included as item II 4 (b) Periodic Maintenance in Table 2.6,
"Xinjiang Highway Revenues and Expenditures." The project provides financing for a
four-year Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (MRP) which covers about 78 percent
of the total budgeted program ($17 million of $22 million). A list of contract packages,
showing road sections and strategy of improvement, for the first year (1997) is included
in Annex 1. In addition to the MRP, the project also includes procurement of equipment
for maintenance of the highway network, training of staff, and strengthening of
institutions such as XCS and XCTWS that supply skilled labor for maintenance
operations.
3.16  Selection of Road Sections. The proposed MRP would include rehabilitation of
about 2,450 km of existing paved national and provincial roads, of which about 956 km
(39 percent) would need strengthening of the pavement structure and 1,496 km would be
overlaid by 40 mm or 60 mm asphalt concrete. The criteria for screening and selection of
road sections to be included in the MRP are detailed in Annex 1. The cost of the four-
year MRP is estimated at about Y 577 million ($70 million). The EIRR for the first year
(1997) of the MRP is estimated at 92 percent.
3.17  The individual road sections for the first year (1997) were selected on the basis of
priorities given in the proposed study program and the need for a reasonable uniform
standard of sections, taking into account the location of road sections, size of contracts,
and the administrative aspects of design and contract management. The additional road
sections to be improved under this MRP will be drawn from the pool of prioritized road
segments identified in the study mentioned above (para 3.16), and their submission for
approval to the Bank will be effected in manageable batches of projects.  The
documentation to be developed as part of the Bank approval process will constitute a
Project File including: (a) an economic analysis including evidence that each of the
proposed sections meets the EIRR criteria; and (b) a technical analysis, including
proposed designs and cost estimates.
3.18  Implementation. XHAB would undertake detailed engineering investigation and
designs of all highway sections to be included in the MRP. The road sections to be
improved will be packaged into 6-12 contracts for each year's work. These maintenance
and rehabilitation works will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB),



- 20 -
and undertaken by contractors. Bidding documents will be prepared by competent
technical personnel at county level, and coordinated and guided by a special design group
within XHAB. A separate supervision group would also be set up within XHAB to have
overall responsibility for supervision of construction of MRP contracts. These groups
within XHAB will be assisted by subgroups at county level to carry out detailed
investigations and supervision of road construction within their area. The subgroups will
be composed of local personnel from the relevant county highway bureaus under XHAB
and are capable of supervising the works.
3.19 Monitoring of MRP. The average road surface roughness (IRI) on the paved
road network would serve as an indicator of achievement of the objective for improved
serviceability. IRI is expected to be improved from the present 6.4 mm/m to about 5.6
mmnm after the four-year program. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from XAR
that it would, by January 31 of each year commencing in 1997 and ending in 2000,
furnish an annual highway maintenance and rehabilitation program report on roads
under MRP for the Bank's review and comments, which would.  (a) show the
maintenance and rehabilitation activities undertaken during the previous year including
costs; (b) show the results of IRI on the paved highway network; and (c) establish targets
for the following year, including an estimate of the proposed works, costs and expected
'RI:
Equipment
3.20  The equipment to be provided under the project was based on those procured
under XHP 1 and reviewed by the Bank. The final agreed lists of equipment together with
their estimated costs are available in the project files. These lists include equipment
required for operation and maintenance of UKH, control of construction quality during
construction of UKH and linking roads, maintenance of highway network, institutional
strengthening of XCD and related institutions and training schools and the highway
safety program. The preliminary total equipment cost is estimated at about Y 91.8
million ($11.3 million), of which $9.5 million would be in foreign currencies. The Bank
and XCD agreed that the equipment lists should be looked at as subject to reasonable
change with regard to type and number, and consequently, some flexibility should be
exercised during project implementation to properly allow for changing circumstances
and needs.
3.21  Equipment for UKH. To support of the construction supervision activities of
UKH and its linking roads, there is a need for equipment and instruments. For the
operation and maintenance of UKH, equipment requirements have also been identified.
This equipment is in addition to the site laboratory equipment and surveying instruments
to be provided by the contractors for the civil works, and the toll collection and
telecommunication equipment to be provided by the contractor for the
electrical/mechanical works for UKH.



- 21 -
3.22  Equipment for Maintenance of Roads. This equipment consists of urgently
required equipment for routine, periodic and maintenance and heavy repair of roads to
replenish the equipment fleet of the regional and county maintenance units.
3.23  Equipment for Institutional Strengthening.  These consist of specialized
equipment for support of the four relevant institutions of XCD that would be strengthened
under the proposed project (paras. 3.24-3.26).
Institutional Strengthening and Training
3.24  The institutional strengthening measures under this component are part of a broad,
long-term effort started as part of XHP1. The purpose of this component is to build up
the planning, construction, maintenance and overall management capabilities of XCD, in
the light of its rapidly expanding investment and maintenance program. The priority
areas to be addressed here include highway engineering, highway maintenance and the
operations and management of high-grade highways. The component also strengthens
XCD's institutional capabilities to train qualified technical and supervisory personnel for
the maintenance of the Xinjiang highway network. The total cost of the Institutional
Strengthening and Training (IST) component is estimated at Y 15.0 million, of which
$1.12 million is in foreign currencies (Annex2).
3.25  IST component consists of three elements:
(a)   Organizational Strengthening. Through staff development (49 person-
months in Training and Investigation Study Tours outside China) and
related equipment for the priority organizations in the sector, i.e. the High-
Grade Highway Administration Bureau (XHAB), the Xinjiang
Communications School (XCS), the Xinjiang Communications Technical
Workers School (XCTWS), and the Highway Administration Bureau's
Shihezi Training Center (STC) (Annex 2). The estimated total cost of this
element is Y 10.9 million (of which $0.93 million is in foreign currencies).
(b)   Staff Training. This element covers skills upgrading and specialized
training for 710 persons (897 person-months) in Xinjiang, in other parts of
China and abroad, for the staff in the organizations cited under
Organizational Strengthening, as well as for the staff of units which did
not receive support under XHPI: the Highway Engineering Quality
Control Center (XHEQCC), the Highway Engineering Quota Management
Center (HEQMC), and the Telecommunications Information Center (TIC).
The cost of this element is Y 2.6 million (of which $0.05 million is in
foreign currencies).
(c)   Technical Assistance. This element includes support for the training of
trainers at three technical training institutions, for an estimated total cost
of Y 1.5 million (of which $0.15 is in foreign currencies).



- 22 -
3.26  Each of the agencies supported by this component prepared proposals for staff and
organizational strengthening in the forrn of Training Needs Outlines. These were
reviewed in detail by Bank staff for interagency consistency and sectoral coherence, and
found to be satisfactory. The PEO staff responsible for managing the IST component
under XHP1 also prepared an exhaustive Report on Institutional Strengthening and
Training which includes an inventory of personnel in the sector organizations and a
detailed list of equipment required under the component justified on the basis of sector
functions and activities to be improved. The Report on IST is part of the Project File.
Highway Safety Program
3.27  In 1994 alone, 4,490 traffic accidents occurred on Xinjiang's highways, resulting
in 1,712 fatalities and 2,884 injuries. The severity of accidents (in terms of the number
killed in traffic accidents per 10,000 vehicles) indicates that the rate in Xinjiang is much
higher than that of whole China. Annex 3 summarizes the existing highway safety
situation in Xinjiang and related problems and presents an implementable highway safety
program, which was discussed and agreed with XCD.
3.28  The design of UKH and the related linking roads was reviewed from a safety view
point by the Italian consultants and a Norwegian safety expert. Consequently, those
designs have been prepared to a high standard and reflect safety considerations
adequately. The highway safety program included under the project would build on what
was provided for highway safety in XHPI and comprises:
(a)   Establishing a Leading Group for Highway Safety Coordination to
coordinate between XCD and PSB, as well as a Highway Safety
Secretariat (HSS) to prepare the work for the Leading Group. The
Leading Group and HSS would be established by the end of 1996 and by
March 1997, respectively.
(b)   Developing procedures for safety audits by HSS.
(c)   Undertaking accident black spot analyses as well as the monitoring and
evaluation by the Traffic Science Institute, and implementation of
engineering works of the identified black spots by XCD. XCD agreed to
allocate Y 20 million ($2.4 million) to this purpose during 1997 and 1998.
(d)   Undertaking of road signing and marking works on some 60 km of Class
II highways to which about Y 8.7 million ($1.1 million) would be
allocated.
(e)   First aid will be introduced in the curricula for police and driver training as
well as child psychology for police officers responsible for training of
school children in traffic safety.
(f)   Other training activities such as study tours (Annex 3 for details).



- 23 -
(g)   Provision of equipment to support the above activities (Ann.l3).
(h)   Evaluation of the implementation of the Highway Safety program by an
independent local expert (1.5 person-month).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that XAR would establish and maintain: (a) a
Leading Group for traffic safety coordination, policy-making and planning, with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (b) a Highway Safety
Secretariat to prepare work for the Leading Group, with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank to carry out a black spot identification and improvement program
and establish safety audit procedures and checks under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank Also, assurances were obtained during negotiations that XAR would, pursuant
to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (i) by October 31, 2000, complete a black
spot identification and improvement program; (ii) by October 31, 2000, complete a
program to improve road signs and markings; and (iii) by December 31, 2001, have an
expert acceptable to the Bank prepare an evaluation of its Highway Safety Program
according to indicators acceptable to the Bank
Regional Transport Study
3.29 The proposed study of transport within Xinjiang and between Xinjiang and
neighboring provinces and countries, would assist the government of the autonomous
region in identifying the principal medium-term transport needs and in developing plans
and policies to satisfy those needs so far as is economically justifiable and financially
feasible. The study would include a review of existing transport plans, infrastructure and
services and determine the extent to which these need to be modified in light of the
projected high rate of growth of demand for transport both within Xinjiang and in
connecting Xinjiang with the rest of China and its neighboring countries.
3.30  The principal outputs of the study would be recommendations for changes to
transport policy within the Region, and indications for a medium- and long-term transport
investment program. This program would be based on realistic expectations of the
investment funding likely to be available, taking into account national policies for
developing new financing sources for transport infrastructure. The study would be part of
the provincial-based studies of transport sector issues, to be supported by Bank highway
projects, as agreed between MOC and the Bank.
3.31  The study, which would be conducted by SPC's Comprehensive Transport
Research Institute with assistance from Xinjiang institutions, is expected to last 12
months. Draft outline terms of reference for the study are shown in Annex 4. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations from XAR that it would: (a) undertake and, by June 30,
1998, complete the study in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) establish a review panel comprising representatives of the central government and
Xinjiang Region to guide the said study and provide comments on the results and
recommendations thereof; (c) by September 30, 1998, furnish the said study to the said
review panel for review; and (d) take appropriate steps to implement the



- 24 -
recommendations of the study, taking into account the comments thereon of the said
review panel.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.32  Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of UKH and its linking roads were
carried out by the Research Academy of Environmental Science (RAES). An EIA report,
an Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and an Environmental Assessment (EA) Summary
were revised several times based on the comments made by the Bank staff. The final
EIA, EAP and EA Summary of UKH were received by the Bank in December 1995 and
found to be satisfactory. Since the proposed MRP does not require any widening of
existing roads, its impact on the environment is minimal. However, the bidding
documents for the roads included in this component would include environmental clauses
that reflect good practices during construction, such as location of crushers and asphalt
plants, dust control, restriction of working hours, etc.
3.33  Major environmental impacts include dust and noise, soil erosion and impacts on
irrigation channels, and transportation of construction materials during the construction
period. Traffic noise and vehicle exhaust, soil erosion, and water pollution from service
areas were identified as major adverse impacts during the operation period. Some
problems deserving special attention include impacts on livestock migration, noise and
air pollution problems of Xishan linking road, and impact of traversing coal mines near
Xishan.
3.34  The EAPs specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements to implement the EAPs, training and
equipment requirements, and budget needed for environmental protection.  Major
mitigation measures include appropriate design of overpasses/underpasses to minimize
social disruption, reconstruction of irrigation systems where appropriate, and water
sprinkling to reduce dust during the construction phase. Major mitigation measures
include resettlement and construction of noise barriers around the schools, hospitals and
residences, strengthening of vehicle emission inspections and better maintenance of
vehicles to minimize air pollution problems, and afforestation to improve landscape and
reduce air pollution during the operation phase. It was ascertained that the proposed
UKH and its linking roads will not affect ecologically sensitive areas and that their
construction and operation would have no adverse impact on the environment through the
implementation of the EAP. The summary of the EIAs and EAPs are presented in Anne
5 and copies of the EIAs and EAPs are available in the Public Information Center.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from XAR that:  (a) the environmental
protection measures stipulated in the EAPs would be carried out in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; and (b) XAR wouldfurnish to the Bank an annual environmental monitoring
report for UKH during the construction phase and for each of the first three years
following completion of construction.



- 25 -
F. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
3.35 Legal Framework and Resettlement Policies. The Land Administration Law of
China and Xinjiang Regional Land Administration Regulations are the legal basis for the
planning and implementation of land acquisition and resettlement for all highway
projects. Land acquisition and resettlement are well regulated in China, which generally
conform to the Bank's policies on involuntary resettlement. The main objective of the
resettlement program is to ensure that the affected people are able to at least restore, if not
improve their standards of living after resettlement. Also efforts have been made to
minimize acquisition of productive farmland and enterprises in order to reduce adverse
impacts of land acquisition and resettlement.
3.36  Project Impacts.  Construction of UKH and its linking roads will require
permanent acquisition of about 1,139.26 hectares (ha) of land and will affect about 3,706
persons. Another 466.54 ha of land would be required to be leased temporarily during
construction. About 265 households (1,106 persons) will be affected through house
relocation. The project will also affect nine enterprises employing 243 workers. A
detailed socioeconomic survey of the affected persons was completed by the Xinjiang
Academy of Social Sciences (XASS) in August 1996. The population of Xinjiang is 16.3
million, making up 1.3 percent of the population of China. They are composed of 49
ethnic groups. Among them, the most populous five ethnic groups are: Uygur, 7.19 m;
Han, 5.7 m; Kazakh 1.1 m; Hue 670,000; and Kyrgys, 140,000. In the project affected
area, the total city and county population is 2.8 million, and the majority (80 percent) are
Han. Affected persons live in ethnically integrated, multicultural communities and
conduct regular economic activities in agriculture, industry, and services. Those affected
through the loss of a house will be moved very short distances (100-300 meters) and will
remain close to their regular social, cultural, and economic practices. Their standards of
living will not be adversely affected after rehabilitation. The construction of the highway
will bring benefits to the dffected persons and their communities.
3.37  Implementation. It is expected that the land acquisition and resettlement (LAR)
activities will be completed by February 1997, whereas construction of UKH is expected
to start in March 1997. A Lead Group on resettlement has already been formed for XHP 1
(TUDH) project and the same group will be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the RAPs for the UKH. A summary of the RAP is given in Annex 6.
A copy of the RAP is deposited in the Public Information Center. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations from XAR that all LAR activities with respect to the UKH and
linking roads would be completed according to the RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank
3.38  Monitoring and Evaluation.  The implementation of the RAPs will be
monitored both internally (by the Resettlement and Monitoring Office (RMO) and the
local communications bureau) and externally (by XASS, specially engaged by XCD for
the purpose).



- 26 -
(a)   Internal Monitoring. Internal monitoring, to be carried out by the staff
from the Resettlement and Monitoring Office (RMO) and those from the
local (city/county, and township) communications bureau, will be
undertaken every three months and a summary of internal reporting will be
submitted to the Bank every six months.  Internal monitoring will
concentrate on the physical progress of RAPs implementation.
(b)   External Monitoring.  The task of external monitoring of RAPs'
implementation by an independent agency has been entrusted to XASS.
Apart from physical monitoring of the LAR program, which will also be
carried out by the internal monitoring agencies, XASS will concentrate on
evaluation of the implementation of the RAPs. External monitoring will
start along with the initiation of LAR activities and will continue one year
beyond project completion (until 2001).  Monitoring reports will be
prepared every six months and submitted to PEO and the Bank. The first
external monitoring report will be submitted to the Bank by December 31,
1996. A final monitoring and evaluation report will also be prepared after
project completion (based on a "follow-up" socioeconomic survey of the
affected persons) and submitted to the Bank by December 31, 2001.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from XAR that XCD would, for UKH, furnish
to the Bank: (a) by March 31 and September 30 of each year starting September 30,
1996 internal monitoring reports prepared by appropriate agencies of Xinjiang; and
(b) by June 30 and December 31 of each year starting December 31, 1996 external
monitoring reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank,
regarding the implementation and input of the resettlement activities during the previous
six months, and carry out the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact
of the resettlement process for UKH and its linking roads according to the monitoring
plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Implementation of the RAPs will also be
monitored through routine project supervision and project progress reports.
G. COST ESTIMATES
3.39  The project is estimated to cost about Y 5.40 billion or about $658 million,
including land acquisition and physical and price contingencies as summarized in the
following table and detailed in Table 3.1. The foreign exchange cost would be about
$280 million, or about 42 percent of the total. Base costs have been estimated using
December 1995 prices, and physical contingencies have been based on 10 percent of the
base costs of works and construction supervision of the highway component. Price
contingencies for foreign expenditures have been estimated on assumed international
price escalation of 3.3 percent in 1996, 2.3 percent in 1997, 2.5 percent in 1998 through
2001. Price contingencies for local costs have been estimated assuming annual price
escalation of 10.5 percent in 1996, 8.5 percent in 1997, 7.0 percent in 1998, 6.5 percent in
1999, and 6.2 percent in each of 2000 and 2001.



- 27 -
3.40   The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from  detailed
engineering designs. The costs were computed on the basis of MOC's standard manuals
for labor and equipment productivity, the related annually updated costs and the current
market costs of materials.
3.41   The estimated cost of equipment is based on prevailing prices and those quoted by
manufacturers and suppliers and includes the cost of equipment delivered in Urumqi,
spare parts, and related training if needed to operate and maintain the equipment. The
estimated cost of consulting services are based on recent contracts for similar services
under ongoing highway projects.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(December 1995 prices: $1.00 = Y 8.2)
Foreign
Cost of
Local   Foreign    Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Total
-----------( Y million) ---------  ----------($ million)--------   (%)
UKH and linking roads la     1,553.6   1,537.5  3,091.1     189.5    187.4  376.9   50
Highway maintenance           331.3     246.0   577.3       40.4      30.0   70.4   43
Highway safety                 14.4      14.3    28.7         1.8      1.7    3.5   50
Subtotal                   1.899.3   1.797.8  3.697.1     2312     2121   4508   49
Supervision of construction    68.3      28.9    97.2        8.3       3.5   11.8   30
Equipment/2                    14.6      77.5    92.1         1.9      9.4   11.3   84
Training                        2.5       7.5    10.0        0.3       1.0    1.3   75
Technical assistance/studies    2.0       0.2     2.2        0.3       0.0    0.3   10
Total Base Coat         1.986.7   1.911.9  3,898.6     24215    233 Q   415.5   49
Physical contingency          196.8     182.6   379.4       24.0      22.2   46.2
Price contingency Ld          708.5     199.5   908.0       86.4      24.3   110.7
Base cost with
contingencies             2,892.0   2,294.0  5,186.0     352.9    279.5  632.4
Land acquisition & resettlement   210.9   0.0   210.9       25.7       0.0   25.7     0
Total Proiect Cost       3,102.9   2.2940  5,396.9      378.     219.5  65&.1   42
/a Excludes taxes of Y 77.8 million ($9.5 million) as well as commitment fees and interest on Bank loan
during construction.
Lb Excludes taxes (VAT) and duties of Y 56.9 million ($6.9 million).
L Ten percent of UKH and linking roads, highway maintenance, highway safety and supervision of
construction.
Ld Includes Y 1 million and $55,000 to be allocated for either further study in training purposes after
completion of High Grade Highway Management Study in Henan in 1997-98.
H. FINANCING
3.42   The Bank loan of $300 million would finance about 46 percent of the total project
cost or 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 5 percent of the local cost. The
Central Government (MOC) would provide the equivalent of about $96.3 million, while
XAR would provide the equivalent of about $261.8 million to meet the remaining costs
of the project, including contingencies. MOC's funding would be restricted to the



- 28 -
construction of UKH. The Bank loan of $300 million would be at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single-currency loans. It would be lent to the Ministry of
Finance for a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The proceeds of the Bank
loan would be made available to Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XAR) at the same
rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower with 0.75 percent per year commitment fee on
the outstanding balance, beginning 60 days after loan signing, less any waiver.
Agreement was obtained from the Borrower at negotiations that it would make the
proceeds of the loan available to XAR on these terms. XAR would bear the foreign
exchange risks. The Government of China and XAR have selected LIBOR-based US
dollar single-currency loan terms for the project in order to facilitate management of the
foreign exchange risk of their borrowings by more closely matching the currency of their
liabilities with that of their net trade flows, about 75 percent of which are US dollar
denominated. They selected the LIBOR-based product in order to preserve the full
maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed-rate option that would have resulted in a 15-
year loan. The Borrower judges that it can manage any interest rate risk.
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Xinjiang    Central      World
Province   Government    Bank       Total
UKH:
Civil works, incl. link roads      72.4         96.3        168.6      337.3
Stabilization of abandoned mines    2.4          -            2.4        4.8
Building                           11.4          -           11.4       22.8
Supply and installation (E&M)       2.4          -            9.6       12.0
Highway maintenance                  40.4           -          30.0        70.4
Highway safety                        1.8           -           1.7         3.5
Subtotal                       130D 8                    223.7      450 
Supervision                           8.3           -           3.5        11.8
Equipment                             1.8           -           9.5        11.3
Institutional strengthening & training  0.3         -           1.0         1.3
Study                                 0.1           -           0.2         0.3
Contingencies                        94.8           -          62.1       156.9
Land acquisition                     25.7           -            -         25.7
Project Total               261.8          2          DM.         6
Percent of Total             3m 9          L4.6        45.6       100Q



- 29 -
I. IMPLEMENTATION
3.43  Implementing Agencies.  The implementation of the ploject would be the
responsibility of XCD. The PEO would be the executing agency for the construction of
the UKH and related linking roads and their supervision as well as its related equipment
and all other equipment under the project except those destined to XHAB. XHAB would
be the executing agency for the highway maintenance and highway safety components, as
well as for the equipment for maintenance of the highway network (other than UKH).
PEO and XCD Education and Science and Technology Divisions would be responsible
for training. Training programs would be coordinated with those in other ongoing Bank-
financed highway projects by MOC. The executing agency for the study of transport
linkages with neighboring provinces and countries would be the Comprehensive
Transport Research Institute of SPC. The Traffic Police of PSB would be responsible for
the safety component, except the civil works component. CMC International Tendering
Company (CMC) has been retained by XCD as the procurement agency for all aspects of
civil works of the project requiring international competitive bidding (ICB) and for
equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of construction of UKH would
be carried out by a joint foreign/local supervision team. Upon completion, it is expected
that UKH would be operated and maintained by XHGHAB. Since UKH is a segment of
the national highway system, MOC would also provide general supervision and guidance
for execution of the project.
3.44 UKH and Linking Roads. The implementation program for UKH is shown in
Annex 7. All civil works would be tendered at the same time. The contracts for
electrical and mechanical facilities would be tendered about the middle period of the civil
works for UKH. The invitation for prequalification of contractors for civil works for
UKH was issued in December 1995 and the whole prequalification process was finished
by August 1996.
3.45  The detailed designs and bidding documents for all the 14 contract sections
(highway civil works) were completed by the end of December 1995. Acquisition of land
and the resettlement process are expected to be completed by February 1997. The
installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical systems for the operation of UKH is
scheduled to commence around the third quarter of 1998 and be completed by July of
2000. The construction of service facilities along UKH would be a continuous process
during the implementation period. The UKH is expected to be completed by September
2000.
3.46 Supervision of Construction of UKH and Linking Roads. A team of local
personnel, engineers and technicians recruited from other provincial institutions, and
international consultants would be established to supervise the construction of the UKH
and the linking roads. The joint supervision team (JST) would be headed by a Chief
Supervision Engineer. A Resident Engineer would be stationed on site for each of the 14
civil works contracts. Invitations to international short-listed consulting firms (approved
by the Bank) for supervision of construction were issued in May 1996. A firm would be



- 30 -
selected by October 1996. The consultants would be mobilized in February 1997 to
begin training of local personnel in construction supervision and to help set up the
supervision organization.
3.47  Institutional Strengthening and Training.  In view of the central role of
training for the strengthening of institutional capacity, XCD will implement this
component under an arrangement found to be satisfactory under XHPl: an Institutional
Strengthening Unit, located in the PEO, will act as the secretariat for an intra-XCD
Leading Group chaired by XCD Deputy Director, and responsible for providing advice
and oversight of the IST Office's activities in implementing this component. The IST
Unit will be charged with undertaking the planning, implementation, financial
management and coordination for the training and other elements in the component. The
unit will be headed by a Training Coordinator, reporting to the PEO Director and assisted
by two staff members from the Science and Technology and Education Departments of
XCD. The Training Coordinator will relate to all organizations in the sector with which
the component is concerned and would share financial control over the resources
allocated under the component.
3.48  Formal selection procedures for candidates to be trained have been developed and
agreed with the Bank. The criteria specified for the selection of staff for further training
will be the same as those applied under XHPI. These criteria include both educational
and experience requirements, as well as English language comprehension and ability:
trainees to be sent abroad for longer-term training would have a good working knowledge
of English or else would take a two-month long English course prior to traveling. Each
trainee would be required to submit a report on the training received to his/her parent
Department or agency.
3.49 The IST unit will submit to the Bank, on an annual basis, a Training Plan for the
next two-year period as well as a sample of the Training Needs Outlines and terms of
reference for the abroad training and study tours scheduled to occur as part of this Plan.
Progress Reports will be submitted to MOC for transmission to the World Bank, on an
annual basis, either at the same time as the Training Plan. By 1998, XCD will review the
results from a High Grade Highway Management Study carried out in Henan. XCD will
adapt this report to local conditions and determine what training, if any, needs to be
carried out, or if additional study is required. Any training or study resulting from this
will be carried out according to the same procedures as the IST component. At
negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom XAR that XAR shall, by October 31 of each
year commencing in 1997, furnish a rolling two-year training implementation schedule to
the Bank and carry out the training under a program acceptable to the Bank.
3.50  Equipment. The responsibility for procurement of equipment would be divided
between the two executing agencies. PEO would be responsible for the procurement of
equipment related to UKH and the Traffic Police. XHAB would administer the
procurement of equipment for the maintenance of the highway network (other than UKH
and for the highway safety component). The equipment required for laboratories,



- 31 -
strengthening of highway network maintenance, highway safety and institutional
strengthening would be procured at an early stage of project implementation (1996/97),
while that for the operation and maintenance of UKH is scheduled to be procured toward
the end of UKH construction (2000).
3.51  The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2001, with the
loan closing date stipulated as December 31, 2002. The implementation schedule for the
project is presented in Annex 7.
3.52 Operations of UKH. XCD intends to operate the new highway as a toll facility
consistent with its design. Tolls would be collected at eight points (Map IBRD 27623),
reflecting an open system for toll collection. To ensure that the toll rates would be
appropriately structured and that toll levels would not lead to a substantial reduction in
the benefits of highway investment, the rationale for setting the level of tolling would be
determined based on the findings of an analysis to be undertaken by the Region, which
takes into consideration latest experience with operation of toll roads in China as well as
similar studies done under Bank-financed highway projects in China. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations from XAR that XCD shall undertake, and by April 30, 2000,
complete and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and
recommendation for the toll rates on UKH taking into consideration the results of the
Toll Rate Study under the Bank-financed highway projects in China, as well as
experience with tolls on major roads in China.
3.53 Operation and Maintenance of UKH. UKH will be operated and maintained by
XHGHAB with headquarters in Urumqi. This bureau is expected to establish four
maintenance centers at Urumqi, Changji, Shihezi and Kuitun to maintain and operate
UKH. Construction of these centers as well as their equipment needs are included in the
proposed project. Following the institutional strengthening contained in the proposed
project, XHGHAB is expected to be capable of properly operating and maintaining UKH.
J. PROCUREMENT
3.54  Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the following
table on the next page. The procurement arrangements for the project have taken into
account the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,"
published in January 1995 and revised in January 1996, as well as the experience gained
from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The documentation, for procurement,
which covers the prequalification of contractors, ICB and National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) for civil works, ICB for goods and consultant services contracts has been
standardized for Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese government and
the Bank. Standard documents would be used for all relevant procurement processes
under the project.



- 32 -
Procurement Arrangements
($ million)
Total
Procurement Method              Project
ICB      NCB      Other /a  NBF Lb       Cost
Works
UKH - Civil Works                458.8     33.5       -         -        492.3
(213.2)   (16.7)                       (229.9)
UKH - E&M Supply & Installation   14.5       -        -         -         14.5
(11.6)                                 (11.6)
Highway Maintenance                -       90.8        -        -         90.8
(39.2)                        (39.2)
Highway Safety                     -        3.8       0.9       -          4.7
(1.9)     (0.4)               (2.3)
Equipment                          8.6       -        3.9      0.3        12.8
(7.9)              (3.0)              (10.9)
Consultancies & Training L
Supervision of Construction        -         -       15.2       -         15.2
(4.6)               (4.6)
Regional Transport Study            -        -        0.3       -          0.3
(0.3)               (0.3)
Training                           -         -        1.8       -          1.8
(1.2)               (1.2)
Land Acquisition & Resettlement    -         -         -      25.7        25.7
Total                         481.9    128.1       22.1     26.0      658.1
(232.7)   (57.8)     (9.5)             (300.0)
/a Other includes force account, international shopping and limited international bidding, and
consultants and training.
/b NBF: Not Bank-financed.
Lc Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies, but
exclude the cost of land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate
account.
3.55   Works. The civil works of UKH would be divided into 14 contract sections.
Electrical and mechanical works would be handled as one contract. Administration and
maintenance buildings, service areas and toll plazas would be carried out in four
contracts. The linking roads (four road sections) would be included in the corresponding



- 33 -
main UKH contract sections because of the small size of the works involved. Contracts
for the 14 civil works contracts and for the electrical and mechanical works contracts for
the UKH with an estimated cost of $473.3 million would be procured under ICB.
Contracts would be bid on a slice and package basis; qualified firms would be allowed to
bid for more than one contract so as to attract international contractors and large Chinese
contractors. The contracts for electrical and mechanical works would be bid later during
the construction of the UKH. All contractors for the 14 ICB contracts for civil works
would be prequalified. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was
published in the UN Development Business, No. 424 on October 16, 1995. This GPN
served as a specific procurement notice for the civil works contracts for UKH (each
costing more than $10 million). For the remaining large contract for electromechanical
works, invitations to bid would be advertised as specific procurement notices in the UN
Development Business and/or well-known technical magazines, newspapers, and trade
publications of wide international circulation. Domestic contractors competing under
ICB would be eligible for a 7.5 percent price preference. Domestic contractors are
expected to be competitive for all contracts under this project. Each contract for works
estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include the provisions for a
dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in
para. 2.12 of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 and revised in January 1996).
3.56  Other works, including small service facilities (toll plazas, maintenance offices,
service and rest areas, administrative buildings, etc., estimated to cost about $33.5
million), highway maintenance (with a cost of $90.8 million) and most of the highway
safety program (with a cost of $3.8 million) would be awarded following NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works would involve contracts estimated to
cost less than $10 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount of about $128.1
million. Since these contracts are small in value and scattered throughout the Region and
would be implemented over a four-year period, ICB would therefore be neither justified
nor practical, but foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding. However, in the
case of very small contracts for highway safety programs and under special conditions to
be justified by XCD, force account could be used for the procurement of civil works with
a total estimated cost of 20 percent (about Y 7.4 million or about $0.9 million) of the total
cost of highway safety programs.
3.57  Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than
$250,000 equivalent would be awarded under ICB. However, for equipment where the
number of suppliers is small, limited international bidding would be followed, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding $2.3 million. All other items or groups of items
covering minor maintenance equipment, laboratories, and research estimated to cost less
than $250,000 per contract package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1.6 million
would be procured following international shopping procedures on the basis of a
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers (from at least two
countries) eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic manufactures



- 34 -
competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of
bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower.
3.58  Consultants. All consultants required for construction supervision (cost of $15.2
million), regional transport study (cost of $0.3 million), and staff training (cost of $1.8
million) would be selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Local expertise
available in the various regional/provincial universities and institutes in the highway
subsector would be used as much as possible.
3.59  Advance Contracting. XCD requested advance contracting and retroactive
financing in the following areas:
(a)   Stabilization of Abandoned Mines. This would allow treatment of
settlement before the earth work commences in March, 1997. The amount
subject to retroactive financing is estimated at Y 20 million ($2.4 million).
This work will be procured according to NCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
(b)   Consultants for Supervision of Construction of UKH. This would
allow for training of local staff and start-up of supervision of construction
by the time contracts are signed with contractors. The amount subject to
retroactive financing is estimated at $1 million.
(c)   Laboratory Equipment for the Joint International/Local Supervision
Team. This would permit effective, timely supervison of construction.
The amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at $0.15 million.
3.60  Agreement to the above three requests for advance contracting and retroactive
financing is recommended, subject to XCD completing all Bank requirements, including
those for procurement, environment and resettlement. The total amount subject to
retroactive financing is estimated at about $3.6 million. All of this amount would apply
to eligible expenditures after April 1, 1996.
3.61  Bank Review. Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works
contracts with an estimated cost of $2 million (Y 17 million) or more; (b) equipment with
an estimated cost of more than $250,000 per contract; and (c) consulting services with an
estimated contract cost of more than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals. In
the case of consultancy service contracts, all terms of reference and single-source
selections, regardless of the value of the contract, are subject to prior review. Prior
review would apply to about 89 percent and 85 percent of the total contract values of
works and goods, respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-
review procedures would be followed.



- 35 -
K. DISBURSEMENTS
3.62 The proposed Bank loan of $300 million would be disbursed over a period of
about six years, as follows:
Amount disbursed
Category                           ($ million)        Percent disbursed
Civil works
Construction of UKH                182.4       50% of total expenditures
Highway maintenance                 30.0       43% of total expenditures
Highway Safety                       1.7       50% of total expenditures
Electrical and mechanical works
UKH                                  9.6       80% of total expenditures
Equipment                              9.5       100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported
equipment or 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for
locally manufactured
equipment and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant services and training       4.7       100% of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                           62.1
IQoS                              .300.
3.63  To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an
authorized allocation of $25 million equivalent, the estimated average expenditures for a
four-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank, and managed by the project implementing agency.  Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the
Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.2, which takes into
consideration the project disbursement profile for transport projects in China and the
potential risks of delay in project implementation.
3.64 Disbursements would be made against authorized payment requests for work done
under priced contracts for the civil works and for the delivery and installation of the
equipment. Interim certification of civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the
contracts will be prepared by the contractors, reviewed by the supervision teams/units and
payments authorized by PEO/XHGHCA and XHAB. Retroactive financing of up to
$3.6 million would be applied to expenditures made after April 1, 1996, for stabilization



- 36 -
works of abandoned mines ($2.4 million); consultants for supervision of construction of
the UKH and training of local supervision staff ($1.0 million); and for purchase of
laboratory equipment ($0.2 million). Disbursements for staff training in China or abroad
would be made from the Special Account against the actual costs of travel, subsistence
and tuition or training fees. For expenditures relating to contracts for works of $2 million
or less, training, force account, contracts for goods, each valued at $250,000 equivalent or
less, and contracts for services each valued at $100,000 equivalent or less for finns and
$50,000 equivalent or less for individuals, reimbursement would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained
by the implementing agencies and made available for review by the Bank supervision
missions.
L. AUDITING
3.65  The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Administration
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing of project expenditures. Assurances were
obtained from XAR during negotiations that the project accounts and the Special
Accounts, including SOEs, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the
close of each fiscal year. In the case of the SOEs, the audit report would contain a
separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The Bank Group currently accepts SAA
audits for this purpose.
M. PROJECT SUPERVISION, REPORTING AND MONITORING
3.66  Supervision. The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose
frequency would be guided by the progress of the works. However, on the average, a
mission at about nine-month intervals would be mounted; a Supervision Mission Plan is
presented in Annex 8. In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at
Headquarters for project-related activities such as completion of supervision reports,
procurement documentation and contracts, staff training and equipment proposals and
follow-up and review of the studies on highway safety and on operation and maintenance
of high-grade highways. Moreover, the Bank would monitor progress of implementation
of all project components through quarterly progress reports to be submitted to the Bank.
In addition, XCD would submit to the Bank monthly reports on progress of civil works
for UKH. It is estimated that over the implementation period of the project the total time
expended on supervision would be in the order of 70 person-weeks.
3.67  Monitoring.  During implementation, project performance, including the
achievement of physical targets and attainment of other project objectives will be
monitored by PEO through the use of performance indicators, reports on the environment
and land acquisition and resettlement, progress reports and auditing of project accounts.
In addition, upon completion, the project will be reviewed in an Implementation



- 37 -
Completion Report. Annex 9 presents the proposed monitoring indicators for the project.
Each of the project components' indices will track annual progress in attaining targets
during implementation and impact objectives after the project is completed. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that XAR shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in
1997 and ending three years after completion of the project, furnish to the Bank an
annual monitoring report, in a format acceptable to the Bank, covering all components of
the project, in conformance with the monitoring indicators.
3.68  Reporting. Based on the monitoring activities described in Annex 9, PEO will
submit to the Bank an annual monitoring report. This report will be based on the
following reports, which will be submitted to the Bank during the course of a given year:
(a)   Annual environmental monitoring reports during the construction phase
and the first three years of the operation phase of UKH (para. 3.34).
(b)   A  series of internal and external (independent) monitoring reports
assessing the impact of land acquisition and resettlement on various
segments of the local population, describing the income restoration
strategies followed and the number of people rehabilitated (para. 3.38 and
Annex ).
(c)   Annual audit reports for the project accounts and financial statements
(para. 3.65).
(d)   Quarterly progress reports for all project activities and up-to-date
performance indicators (para. 3.66).
(e)   A report, by an independent agency/expert, on the completion of the
highway safety component within six months of the completion of this
component.
(f)   A Project Implementation Completion Report would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.



- 38 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1   The economic evaluation focuses on the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway (UKH) and
Highway Maintenance components of the project, which account for 85 percent of the
total project costs. The four linking roads to the UKH are all relatively short, with a total
length of 18.8 km, and since they are essential to the functioning of the UKH, have been
included in its evaluation. The other linking roads using existing roads do not need to be
improved.
A. BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
4.2   The existing road from Urumqi to Kuitun is heavily congested on the first 64 km
from Urumqi to the starting point of the Wugontai-Karamay road, from which point the
traffic level reduces by about half. Congestion on the second section of the road is
presently lower, but even on this section of the road, traffic will exceed the estimated
capacity before the proposed UKH is open.
4.3   The existing road is built to Class I standards as far as Changji (29.2 km), to Class
II auto-only standards from Changji to Wugongtai (48.5 km), and to Class II (all users)
standards throughout the remainder. The need for additional capacity is therefore similar
through the length of the corridor, despite the higher present traffic level on the section
nearest to Urumqi. There is a high proportion of truck traffic on the existing highway,
with 11 percent of vehicles being truck-trailers, 17 percent being large trucks, and 27
percent being medium trucks, mostly associated with coal- and petroleum-related
industries.  These two products account for more than 40 percent of the freight
transported in large trucks and 32 percent of the medium truck freight. The continued
development of the petroleum, petrochemical and metallurgical industries in the vicinity
will depend on the availability of good transport access to Urumqi, and this in turn will
depend on the provision of new capacity.
4.4   The proposed UKH would form part of the principal transport corridor linking the
eastern provinces of China with central Asia (Russia and Kazakhstan) and through them
to Europe. The proposed UKH would improve the prospects for significant growth in
international trade between the western regions and provinces of China and central Asian
countries with which they have long historic cultural links. A study of transport linkages
with neighboring countries and provinces, as well as within Xinjiang, is included as part
of the project and will identify further transport policy or investment measures needed to
stimulate international trade.
4.5   In addition to the benefits of reduced vehicle operating costs, which in turn will
lead to economic and trade development prospects, provision of a divided highway will
reduce the present very high accident rate. This high rate is a consequence of the high



-39-
traffic volume/capacity ratio on a single carriageway road, which reduces the
opportunities for one vehicle to safely pass another. The high proportion of relatively
slow moving trucks leads drivers of faster moving vehicles to take additional risks in
order to avoid being delayed. If the UKH is not built, the number of risk situations will
increase faster than the rate of growth of traffic.
4.6   The proposed project will also finance a significant proportion of the agreed
highway maintenance program for the Region. Completion of this program is expected
to improve the average value of the index of highway surface condition (International
Roughness Index, IRI) from its current level of 6.7 to about 5.6 mm per m. Agreements
on annual maintenance activities and monitoring of highway revenues and expenditures
are expected to ensure that adequate funds are allocated to maintenance, despite the need
to add to highway capacity during a period of expected high economic growth and levels
of motorization.
B. URUMQI-KUITUN HIGHWAY
4.7   The Existing Corridor. The proposed UKH is part of the highway network
centered on Urumqi that has consistently been identified as important to the economic
growth of the region. The area that would be served by the proposed road includes a
present population of about 3.8 million, or about 22 percent of the XAR total. However,
as its importance in industrial and agricultural production is greater than in proportion to
its population, it accounts for almost half the Regional total for GOVAI. The Region as a
whole has experienced high economic growth, averaging more than 10 percent per year
for the last 15 years. The imminent opening of new production facilities, such as a high
capacity ethylene and alkyl-benzene works, is expected to reestablish the high economic
growth of a decade ago and result in a large increase in demand for transport
4.8   Urumqi-Kazakstan Railway. The railway that parallels the line of the proposed
UKH is operating at substantially less than its full capacity, transporting some 1.58
million tons and 0.56 million passengers in 1994. The total length of the line from the
border with Kazakstan to Urumqi is 456 km and from Kuitun to Urumqi, the section
relevant as a possible alternative to construction of the UKH, is only 222 km. Rail
transport is inefficient compared with road transport over these short distances, and the
line is not aimed at such local traffic but, rather, at that traveling the longer distances to
Beijing and other cities in the coastal provinces. Less than 25 percent of the projected
traffic on the UKH will have trip lengths such that rail transport could be a viable
alternative. Some of this freight might in the long term transfer to rail, but only when the
combined Xinjiang and MOR operation can be made more attractive to the relatively
small loads that travel by road, and this is not expected to come about within the next 10
years.
4.9   Traffic on the Existing Road. In 1995, traffic between Urumqi and Hutubi
(90 km from Urumqi) was more than two and half times higher than six years earlier
(Table 4.1) , while on the section between Hutubi and Kuitun, traffic was about double



- 40 -
the earlier level, representing average annual growth rates of more than 17 percent and 14
percent respectively. However, growth in the last five years has been much lower, at 13
percent and 6 percent on each of the sections. The lower recent growth can be attributed
to a slow down in the coal, petroleum and petrochemical industries, which is now being
overcome with the construction of new capacity and facilities. Traffic already exceeds
the design capacity throughout the Class II section of the existing road and will soon do
the same for the Class I section in the Urumqi urban area. Table 4.1 shows the present
and projected traffic levels in the corridor.
4.10  Traffic Projections. Traffic projections for the proposed highway take into
account expected population growth, increases in real incomes that lead to higher demand
for travel and higher levels of motorization, and increases in mineral and petroleum
output and agricultural and industrial production that will lead to increased freight
transport demand. They also account for the generation of new demand as a consequence
of construction of the proposed road.
4.11   The population of Xinjiang increased at an average annual rate of almost 2 percent
between 1982 and 1995, with the highest rate of 2.5 percent in the period 1990 to 1995.
The population of Urumqi has grown slightly faster, that of Kuitun much faster at more
than 12 percent per year, while that of the region between Urumqi and Kuitun has grown
rather slower. Projections of the population of Urumqi are for a growth of about 1.8
percent per year until 2000, slowing to 1.25 percent until the end of the study period
(2020). For Kuitun they are 3.0 percent and 1.7 percent, while for the intermediate area
they are 1.3 percent and 1.4 percent in each of the periods.
4.12  The economy of the area of influence of the proposed highway is expected to
grow about 20 percent faster than the 12 percent, 10 percent and 7 percent projection for
the whole of Xinjiang in the periods 1995 to 2000, 2000 to 2010, and 2010 to 2020. The
basis for these high projections of growth are the expected developments of agricultural
production, with a returning to profitability of cotton and textile production, petroleum
production and refining and associated petrochemical industries. Industrial production
with a focus on export-oriented industries is also expected to grow faster than the regional
and national averages, as are industries related to construction and mining. Generated
traffic is estimated to add 6 percent to the base level of traffic, with 10 percent for trips
that would travel the full length of the corridor and 4 percent for those making use of the
new road for shorter distances. The results of the traffic projections indicate an average
growth rate from 1995 to 2000 of about 14 percent, largely the result of an increase in
real incomes, reducing to just over 8 percent from 2000 to 2010 and to rather more than 4
percent from 2010 to 2020 (Table 4.1).
4.13   The proportion of traffic using the proposed new highway was estimated taking
account of the lower vehicle operating costs and shorter travel times that would result, as
well as the tolls that would need to be paid by users of the road. In the early years of
operation, when congestion on the existing road would be a deterrent to its use,
84 percent of corridor traffic is expected to use the new road, except within the Urumqi



- 41 -
urban area where it would be only about 78 percent because of the larger number of
alternative routes available. However, as traffic levels on the new road increase, the time
advantage in comparison with the existing road would reduce, so the expected proportion
of traffic diverting to the road would also reduce to between 65 percent and 80 percent by
the year 2020 (Table 4.2).
4.14  The Proposed New Highway. The projected volumes of traffic indicate that the
new highway should be built to full Expressway standards, that is, a four-lane divided
highway with access control outside the urban area of Urumqi, whereas within the urban
area, the 17.4 km section from Urabo to Xishan should be built as a Class II access
controlled highway, and the 13.2 km section from Xishan to West Station as a Class I
highway. Traffic volumes and economic evaluations indicate that three of the four
linking roads should be built to Class II standards, but it is proposed to build the fourth
linking road, that to Manasi, to the same Class II standard to retain operational
consistency.
4.15  Alternative alignments. Considerations taken into account in the location of the
route included geology, the location of worked and unworked coal seams, risk of
earthquakes, the need to provide a route easily accessible to the intermediate cities and
towns without constructing a barrier to their future development, hydrology including the
need to minimize interference with irrigation canals, and the location of agricultural
production units.
4.16  Alternative alignments were considered for the location of the Urumqi urban
section, including the linking road from Shangshahe to West Station, the section from
West Station to Wugongtai, the section close to Shihezi and the location of the ending
point close to Kuitun. The economic evaluations of alternatives shown in Table 4.4 were
considered together with social and environmnental issues in selecting the preferred
alignments from the alternatives considered.
4.17  Interchanges. It is proposed to provide 16 interchanges along the 267 km length
of the UKH, including those at the start and end, an average of 1 every 17 kin, although 5
would be located in the first 30 km within the Urumqi urban area. In addition, there
would be 32 grade-separated crossings of highways, railways and urban roads. The
intersections in the urban area are where the proposed highway would cross other
principal roads (two of the interchanges would connect with the TUDH) and elsewhere
they are provided for each locality that would generate significant volumes of traffic.
4.18  Link Roads. Most of the proposed interchanges would be located where the
UKH would cross existing highways, so construction of new link roads or improvement
of existing link roads would not be necessary. The four exceptions where link roads
would be necessary were subject to a detailed operational, economic and social
evaluation.
4.19 Economic Evaluation. Economic analyses, based on April 1995 price levels,
were carried out for the route as a whole and for each of its 13 sections. Construction of



- 42 -
the highway was assumed to start in 1997 and be completed by the end of 2000, and the
economic life of the highway to be 20 years with a residual value of 50 percent of the
original cost. Project costs included annual maintenance and operation of the toll system,
and periodic maintenance (pavement overlay) in the tenth year of operation. Economic
costs were derived from financial costs by eliminating taxes, duties and price
contingencies and by applying shadow prices to construction materials.
4.20  Benefits of the highway were assumed to accrue from savings in vehicle operating
costs, reductions in travel time and reduced accident costs, this last benefit being
quantified only in terms of reduced vehicle damage cost savings. Vehicle operating costs
were assumed to vary with the type of vehicle, average speed of traffic and Class of road
(higher costs for a given speed on Class III and Class IV roads), the condition (roughness)
of the road surface, and the horizontal and vertical alignment of the road. A comparison
between the computed vehicle operating costs on a road network similar to that currently
provided and the results of a survey of actual vehicle maintenance costs indicated a
difference of less than 5 percent.
4.21 Sensitivity tests. Sensitivity tests were carried out for three alternatives for each
of the linkages to the Urumqi Transit Road, three alternatives for the section of road
between Urumqi and Changji, and for each of the four proposed new link roads. The
basic evaluation made use of the lowest of the three projected traffic levels and assumed
that tolls would be charged at a level that would balance economic and financial
considerations. Sensitivity tests were made with a higher demand projection, with tolls
that optimized financial returns as well as a situation with no tolls, and with a zero
valuation of travel time savings to vehicle occupants.. Further sensitivity tests were
carried out with increases of costs of up to 20 percent, reductions of benefits of up to 20
percent and combinations of these value. Probabilities were assigned to each different
combination of costs and benefits, and an expected value of the economic rate of return
derived from them.
4.22  Economic evaluation results. The economic evaluation of the proposed project
as a whole yielded a best estimate EIRR of 20.6 percent and a probability weighted EIRR
of 19.3 percent. For the EIRR value to fall below the threshold value of 12 percent, costs
would need to be at least 25 percent higher than estimated at the same time as benefits
would need to be at least 25 percent lower than estimated. The probability of this
outcome was assessed at less than 4 percent. The weights used in determining the
probability weighted result ("Expected" EIRR) are shown in Table 4.4, together with the
contribution of each element to the overall result.
4.23  The basic EIRR values for each of the 13 road sections were between 16 percent
and 23 percent, with the lower values generally being for the sections of road further from
Urumqi (Table 4.4). The selected alternative for connection to the Urumqi Transit Road
as a Class II Highway to be built in a single stage had an EIRR in excess of 27 percent
and the selected alignment for the section between Urumqi and Wugontai in excess of 20
percent. Three of the proposed link roads had an EIRR in excess of 25 percent, while the



- 43 -
fourth (that to Manasi) with only a marginally acceptable EIRR of 12.1 percent, was
included in the project because of the additional benefits it would bring to local traffic
which were not included in the evaluation. Elimination of the benefits of time savings
showed a reduction in the EIRR to 18.5 percent.
4.24 Effect of tolls. A toll of about 16 fen/veh-km (US 1.7 cents veh-km) would be
sufficient to finance loan amortization charges. This level of toll is substantially lower
than those presently being applied on toll roads in coastal provinces. The sensitivity tests
with respect to operation of the road without tolls showed an increase in the EIRR to 23
percent. Sensitivity tests to the level of tolls (Table 4.5) showed that even at a toll of
about 42 fen/veh-km (about US 5 cents at December 1995 prices), the EIRR is still within
75 percent of its maximum value and the FIRR has almost reached its maximum. Above
this level of toll, the EIRR falls rapidly while the FIRR also falls as the cross-elasticity of
demand becomes greater than 1.0, so a proportionate increase in toll produces a less than
proportionate increase in revenue.
4.25  The level of tolls would be established just before opening of the road, and would
take account of the conflicting objectives of recovering sufficient revenue to finance loan
amortization charges while not deterring a high proportion of traffic from using the road
and thereby reducing its economic benefits. The toll will also take account of users
concerns that they should not be charged twice for construction of the proposed highway,
once through the toll and again through the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF), part of which
is allocated to new road construction. It is this concern that has led to the current
preference to set the toll level to cover only the loan amortization cost and not that part of
the cost financed by the RMF. Private finance of the full construction cost would require
a toll of about 50 fen/veh-km (US 6 cents) to give an acceptable rate of return to
providers of both debt and equity, and this level would substantially reduce the economic
benefits of the project. XHGHCA would submit to the Bank by April 30, 2000, a study
of the tolls to be charged.
4.26  Financial Evaluation. It is intended that the UKH be operated as a toll road,
with an open tolling system. This would result in greater cost savings than revenue losses
in comparison with a closed toll system. There would be three on-route toll stations, at
Changji, Manasi and Kuitun, and five on-ramp toll stations, at Bagang, Changji,
Wulawusu, Shawan, and Anjihai interchanges.
4.27  Although the net present value of toll revenues exceeds that of loan amortization
payments, the cash flow from toll revenues would generate sufficient funds in the early
years of the project to finance amortization payments based on a conventional Bank
repayment schedule of equal repayments throughout the period of the loan. Since the
revenue would be much higher in the later years of the project, the repayment schedule on
which the toll rate was determined more closely paralleled the revenue stream from toll
payments. In addition, the toll revenues are calculated in money rather than real terms,
since the loan amortization payments are independent of inflation, but the revenues will
depend on how tolls are adjusted to keep up with inflation.



- 44 -
4.28  Highway Maintenance. The 30 sub-projects proposed for the first year of the
highway maintenance program, covering a total road length of 562 km, have also been
subjected to an economic evaluation. The sub-projects were of two types, a 40-mm
asphalt concrete overlay, to be applied to 57 percent of the length ("overlay"), and a 60-m
asphalt concrete overlay and a 200-mm base course ("strengthening") for the remainder.
The evaluated benefits of the sub-projects included reduced vehicle operating costs and
routine highway maintenance costs. The mean EIRR for these first year sub-projects was
92 percent with a standard deviation of 44 percent, and a range from 14 percent to more
than 400 percent, with similar values for each of the two types of sub-project. These high
EIRR values indicate that higher expenditure on periodic maintenance would be justified,
as is proposed in the highway improvement program of the XHAB, which includes many
periodic maintenance activities as part of broader improvements.
C. PROJECT RISKS
4.29  The principal risks are related to implementation delay, lack of counterpart funds
and insufficient institutional capacity. Based on the experience of the ongoing XHP1,
these risks are lower in Xinjiang than in other provinces and regions. The risk of cost
overruns is small, given the relatively easy geological conditions of the area in which the
road would be constructed and the strong management of XHGHCA. Experience with
XHGHCA during the implementation of the TUDH has been excellent, their having
demonstrated not only strong management, but also an ability to ensure adequate and
timely availability of finance. The perception of risk of a lack of counterpart funds arise
from two considerations. First, the projected future revenues of the highway sector
include borrowing and an assumed strong economic growth and consequent increase in
the number of vehicles to generate revenue to amortize the loans. Should the expected
rate of growth not come about, sector revenues would not reach their projected levels, but
borrowing and repayment commitments would already have been made. The Region's
highway sector might therefore find itself unable to meet its counterpart financing
obligations.
4.30  Second, the conditionality of the proposed project requires a significant increase
in expenditure on maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing highway network. This
network was not designed for the volumes of traffic or weights of trucks now using it. If
the planned rehabilitation does not take place, the condition of the network will quickly
deteriorate to unacceptable levels.  The combination of increased maintenance
expenditure, loan amortization payments, and counterpart funding obligations will
consume almost all the projected sector revenue, even if the expected economic growth
does take place. Any increase in maintenance and construction costs will rapidly take up
the small margin of projected revenue over expenditure and put in risk all of the proposed
investments.
4.31  Fortunately, the sector agencies are aware of this risk and are proposing
institutional changes that will go far in ensuring that adequate funds are available. The
proposals would convert XHGHCA into a highways operating rather than a highways



- 45 -
construction agency, possibly with responsibilities for more than just the high-grade
highways that is presently responsible for constructing. With revenue and expenditure
for the whole highways sector under a single agency, the risks of inadequate financing
would be greatly reduced.
4.32  Specific measures to reduce project risks would include:
(a)   intensive review of final designs both by independent international
consultants and Bank staff before Project approval by the Board, to
minimize the risk of subsequent changes;
(b)   intensive supervision of construction both by local staff of XHGHCA and
intemational consultants to ensure strict adherence to designs and
materials quality; and
(c)   annual review and agreement by the Bank of the proposed highway
maintenance program and budget for the subsequent year, as well as a
detailed review of the previous years performance.
4.33  It is possible that should traffic volumes and toll revenues on the new UKH fail to
meet expectations, XHGHCA would be tempted to discourage use of the existing road by
imposing tolls or failing to undertake adequate maintenance. The risk of failure of the
new road to attract sufficient traffic to provide adequate toll revenue will be reduced by
ensuring that all cost effective measures are taken to increase attractiveness of the new
road while not reducing that of the existing road. These measures would include
provision of safety features to reduce accidents and service and rest areas.



- 46 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Agreement was reached with the Central Government at negotiations that it would
make the proceeds of the loan available to XAR on the same terms as those of the Bank
loan to it: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the same rate payable to the Bank by
the Borrower, with 0.75 percent per year commitment fee on the outstanding balance,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver (para. 3.42).
5.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from XAR that:
(a)   XAR would, by March 30 of each year commencing in 1997 and ending in
2003, furnish an annual highway maintenance report for the Bank's review
and comments, which would: (i) show the length of each class of road by
condition (good, fair, and bad); (ii) establish targets for the following year,
including an estimate of the required physical works (routine maintenance,
periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading) and the cost thereof;
and (iii) measure the results and the actual expenditures against the targets
and the budgeted funds in a format acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.26).
(b)   XAR would, by January 31 of each year commencing in 1997 and ending
in 2000, furnish an annual highway maintenance and rehabilitation
program report for the Bank's review and comments, which would:
(i) show the maintenance and rehabilitation activities undertaken during
the previous year including costs; (ii) show the results of IRI on the paved
highway network; and (iii) establish targets for the following year,
including an eestimate of the proposed works, costs and expected IRI
(para. 3.19).
(c)   XAR would, by December 31, 1996, establish and maintain: (i) a Leading
Group for traffic safety coordination, policy-making and planning, with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) a Highway
Safety Secretariat to prepare work for the Leading Group, with functions
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank to carry out a black spot
identification and improvement program, and establish safety audit
procedures and checks under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Also, XAR would, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank:
(i) by October 31, 2000, complete a black spot identification and
improvement program; (ii) by October 31, 2000, complete a program to
improve road signs and markings; and (iii) by December 31, 2001, have an
expert acceptable to the Bank prepare an evaluation of its Highway Safety
Program according to indicators acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.28).



- 47 -
(d)   XAR would:  (i) by December 31, 1996, establish a review panel
comprising representatives of the central government and Xinjiang Region
to guide the said study and provide comments on the results and
recommendations thereof; (ii) undertake and, by June 30, 1998, complete
the Regional Transport study in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) by September 30, 1998 furnish the said study
to the said review panel for review; and (iv) take appropriate steps to
implement the recommendations of the study, taking into account the
comments thereon of the said review panel (para. 3.31).
(e)   The environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAP, with respect
to the UKH and its linking roads, would be carried out in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. Also, XAR shall furnish to the Bank an annual
environmental monitoring report for UKH during the construction phase
and for each of the first three years following completion of construction
(para. 3.34).
(f)   All land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to UKH, and
its linking roads would be completed according to the RAPs in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.37).
(g)   XAR shall, for UKH, furnish to the Bank: (i) by March 31 and September
30 of each year starting September 30, 1996, internal monitoring reports
prepared by appropriate agencies of Xinjiang; and (ii) by June 30 and
December 31 of each year starting December 31, 1996, external
monitoring reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the
Bank regarding the implementation and input of the resettlement activities
during the previous six months and carry out the monitoring of the
effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the resettlement process for
UKH and its linking roads according to the monitoring plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.38).
(h)   XAR shall, by October 31 of each year commencing in 1997, furnish the
rolling two-year training implementation schedule to the Bank and shall
carry out the training under terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.49).
(i)   XAR shall undertake and, by April 30, 2000, complete and furnish to the
Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and recommendation for
the toll rates on the UKH, taking into consideration the results of the Toll
Rate Studies under the Bank-financed highway projects in China, as well
as experience with tolls on major roads in China (para. 3.52).
(j)   The project accounts and the Special Accounts, including SOEs, would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit



- 48 -
reports would be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.65).
(k)   XAR shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and
furnish to the Bank: (i) a monthly report of the progress of works on UKH;
(ii) a quarterly report of implementation progress of all components; and
(iii) by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997, and ending three
years after completion of the project, furnish to the Bank an annual
monitoring report, in a format acceptable to the Bank, covering all
components of the project to measure the extent to which different
implementation and impact objectives are being attained in the course of
project execution and operation (para. 3.67).
5.3   Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a US Dollar
single-currency Bank loan of $300 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan
would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar-denominated single-currency
loans.



- 49 -
TABLE 1.1: TRAFFIC TURNOVER BY MODE, 1980-94
TURNOVER VOLUME OF FREIGHT TRAFFIC
(billion ton-km)
Petroleum
Civil      and gas
Year                 Total      Railway     Highway    Waterway    aviation       pipelines
1980          1,202.60      571.69      76.40        505.28      0.14        49.10
1990         2,620.70     1,062.24     335.81      1,159.19      0.82        62.70
1993         3,051.00     1,195.46     407.05      1,386.08       1.66       60.80
1994         3,327.40     1,246.20     448.10      1,570.40       1.86       60.80
Compound annual        7.54         5.72      13.47          8.44      20.29        1.54
growth rate,
1980-94 (%)
Compound annual        6.15         4.07       7.48          7.89      22.72       -0.77
growth rate,
1990-94 (%)
TURNOVER VOLUME OF PASSENGER TRAFFIC
(billion passenger-km)
Civil
Year                  Total         Railway       Highway        Waterway        aviation
1980            228.1        138.3            73.0           12.9           4.0
1990            562.8        261.2           262.0           16.5          23.0
1993            785.8        348.3           370.1          19.6           47.8
1994            851.1        363.7           414.7          17.5           55.2
Compound annual         9.86         7.15            13.22         2.20          20.72
growth rate,
1980-94 (%)
Compound annual        10.89         8.86            12.16          1.50          24.40
growth rate,
1990-94 (%)



- 50 -
TABLE 1.2: ROAD ACCIDENT RISKS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, 1993
Number of   Vehicles per    Number of      Fatalities per   Fatalities per
Vehicles       1,000        Fatalities       10,000         100,000
Country             ('000) P La  ('000) L     Population     (Person) L       Vehicles       Population
CHINA               1,185,170      13,823           12        63,551            46.0             5.4
Xinjiang (1994)      16,327          224           14          1,712           76.0            10.0
Shaanxi (1994)       34,800          214            6         1,604            75.0             0.5
Henan (1994)         90,300          452            5         3,648            80.7             0.4
Brazil               153,900       13,469           88         5,500             4.1             3.6
CanadaLd              27,400       20,632          753         3,485             1.7            12.7
Costa Rica             3,200          396          124           235             5.9             7.3
Denmark                5,200        1,991          383           573             2.9            11.0
EgyptA                54,700        1,986           36         4,315            21.7             7.9
France                57,400       32,440          565         9,052             2.8            15.8
GermanyZ/             80,600       43,826          544        10,643             2.4           13.2
HungaryLd             10,300        2,510          244         4,577            18.2           44.4
Indiak               883,600       16,479           19        54,058            32.8            6.1
Indonesia/          184,300        8,889           48        10,887            12.2             5.9
Japan                124,500       79,761          641        10,942             9.6            8.8
Mexico/A              85,000       11,368          134         5,252             4.6            6.2
Norway                 4,300        2,981          693           281             0.9            6.5
Pakistan             119,300        2,279           19         6,299            27.6             5.3
Poland                38,400        9,247          241         6,341             6.9           16.5
Korea                 43,700        8,210          188        10,402            12.7           23.8
Spain/A               39,100       19,128          489         6,014             3.1           15.4
Thailand              58,000       10,243          177         9,496             9.3            16.4
Turkey                58,500        5,648           97         6,444            11.4            11.0
UK                    57,800       25,448          440         4,229             1.7            7.3
USALd                255,400      195,706          766        39,235             2.0            15.4
Ln Mid -1992 population; World Development Report, 1994, pp. 162 -3.
1  Analysis of accident rates may be limited by the fact that number of vehicles sometimes includes only motor vehicles.
However, figures vehicles have been adjusted to include nonmotor vehicles where data was available. Provincial data on the
incidence of accidents is based on motor vehicles plus tractors and motorcycles; however, does not include bicycles or other
vehicles that may contribute to the rate of accidents.
L World Road statistics 1989-1993, Intemational Road Federation.
Ld  Data for 1992.
IS  Data for 1990.



TABLE 1.3: CHINA: BANK GROUP-FINANCED TRANSPORT PROJECTS
Loan/                                            Loan amount,
(credit)    Board       Date      Closing        S million (SAR)
Project name                                number        date     effective    date        Bank        IDA           Status
RAILWAYS
Railway Project                          2394         03/27/84    07/10/84    12/31/90     220.00                    Closed
Second Railway                           2540         05/14/85    11/22/85   06/30/94      235.00                    Closed
Third Railway                            2678/(1680)  04/15/86    01/13/87    06/30/93      160.00       70.00      Ongoing
Fourth Railway                           2968         06/23/88    03/27/89    12/31/93     200.00                   Ongoing
Inner Mongolia Local Railway             3060/(2014)  05/12/89    01/03/90    12/31/96      70.00       80.00       Ongoing
Fifth Railway                            3406         09/24/91    01/09/92    12/31/98     350.00                   Ongoing
Sixth Railway                            3581         03/25/93    07/14/93    12/31/99     420.00                   Ongoing
Seventh Railway                          3897         06/01/95              12/31/2002     400.00                   Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                                2.055.00      150.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                      2.205.00
HIGHWAYS
Highway Project                          2539/(1594)  05/14/85    12/04/85   06/30/91       42.60        30.00       Closed
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway        2811/(1792)  05/12/87    12/08/87    12/31/92      25.00       125.00      Ongoing
Sichuan Provincial Highway               2951/(1917)  06/09/88    05/31/89    12/31/94      75.00        50.00      Ongoing
Shaanxi Provincial Highway               2952         06/09/88    05/31/89    12/31/94      50.00                   Ongoing
Jiangxi Provincial Highway                   (1984)   02/07/89    05/31/89    12/31/95                  61.00       Ongoing
Shangdong Provincial Highway             3073/(2025)  05/25/89    12/11/89   06/30/95       60.00        50.00      Ongoing
Zhejiang Provincial Highway              3471         05/19/92    09/02/91    12/31/96     220.00                   Ongoing
Guangdong Provincial Highway             3530         11/17/92    04/16/93    06/30/99     240.00                   Ongoing
Henan Highway                            3531         11/17/92    04/16/93    06/30/98      120.00                  Ongoing
Fujian Highway                           3681         12/14/93    07/24/94    06/30/200    140.00                   Ongoing
National Highway                         3748         06/07/94    10/24/94   06/30/2000    380.00                   Ongoing
Xinjiang Highway                         3787         08/30/94    02/09/95    12/31/2000   150.00                   Ongoing
Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway                3929         08/01/95    01/31/96                 260.00                   Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                                 1762.60      316.0
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                      2,078.60



TABLE 1.3: (CONT'D)
Loan/                                              Loan amount,
(credit)     Board       Date       Closing        $ million (SAR)
Project name                                  number        date      effective     date         Bank        IDA            Status
PORTS AND WATERWAYS
Three Ports                                2207          11/02/82    02/02/83    06/30/88       124.00                    Closed
Tianjin Port                               2689          05/06/86    03/20/87    12/31/92       130.00                    Closed
Huangpu Port                               2877/(1845)   10/06/87    10/03/88    12/31/93       63.00        25.00        Closed
Dalian Port                                2907/(1975)   02/09/88    10/03/88    12/31/93        71.00       25.00        Closed
Ningbo and Shanghai Ports                  3006          12/13/88    05/09/89    12/31/93        76.40                   Ongoing
Xiamen Port                                3007          12/13/88    01/09/90    03/31/94        36.00                    Closed
Ship Waste Disposal                        2391          06/17/92    12/31/92    06/30/96                    15.00       Ongoing
Shanghai Port Restructuring and Development    3552      12/22/92    05/13/93    06/30/99       150.00                   Ongoing
Inland Waterways I                         3910          06/20/95    12/31/95    06/30/2001    210.00                    Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                                      860.40        600
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                               925Q40
MULTIMODAL
Jiangsu Provincial Transport               3316/(2226)   04/09/91    09/06/91    06/30/96       100.00       53.60        Ongoing
Transport Rehabilitation                        (2015)  05/24/94    09/09/94    09/30/99                     30.00       Ongoing
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                               183.60
URBAN TRANSPORT
Shanghai Metropolitan Transport                (2296)   09/10/91    09/10/91    06/30/98                     60.00       Ongoing
Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport     3652          10/14/93    03/08/94    12/31/98       150.00                   Ongoing
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                               210.00
GRAND T OTAL                                                                                          5.602.60
Source: Compiled by the mission.



TABLE 2.1: XINJIANG: FREIGHT AND PASSENGER TRAFFIC, 1985-94
A. Freight Traffic
Year                             Tons Transported                                    Tons-Kilometers                               Average Haul distance/ a
Railways   Highways     Civil    Pipeline    Total    Railways   Highways    Civil    Pipeline   Total    Railways   Highways    Civil    Pipeline
Aviation                                             Aviation                                             Aviation
(million)                             -ml(m        iion)                           -(       h olom eters)
1985              12.78      88.47         0    5.56       106.81    10,202     6,125        1        1,145    17,473     798         69         945       206
1989              16.44     126.55       0.01    5.99      148.99    13,267     11,690       2        1,373    26,332     806         92        2,397      229
1990              16.90     115.51       0.01    6.77      139.19    14,116     10,809       2        1,284    26,211     835         94        2,354       190
1991              17.63     145.37      0.01    6.87      169.88    16,334      12,907       2        1,254    30,497     926         89        2,353       183
1992              18.90     133.90       0.01    7.61      160.42    17,348     12,192       3        1,328    30,871     918         91        2,419       175
1993              20.18     351.28       0.01    7.81     379.28    18,340      17,680       3        1,275    37,423     913         50        3,722       163
1994              23.18     365.47       0.02    8.81     399.48    20,764      14,976       5        1,300    37,089      896        41        2,500       148
Annual Growth
(%/) (1985-94)    6.8       17.1       19.6       5.2       15.7       8.2        10.4       19.6       1.4      8.7
B. Passenger Traffic
U'
Year                                Passengers                                  Passenger- kilometers                      Average travel distance /b
Railways   Highways    Civil       Total    Railways    Highways        Civil       Total      Railways      Highways      Civil
Aviation                                        Aviation                                           Aviation
-(million)                              - (million)-----  (klmees
1985                    3.20       33.99       0.09      37.28      3,315         2,913          87        6,315        1,036            86        969
1989                    4.53       82.40       0.47      87.40      4,452         6,637         980       12,069          983            81      2,086
1990                    3.88       91.61       0.53      96.02      3,796         5,511       1,087       10,394          978            60      2,025
1991                    3.83       141.42      0.57     145.82      4,194         6,805       1,209       12,208        1,095            48      2,121
1992                    4.25       144.90     0.82      149.97      4,448         7,538       1,838       13,824        1,047            52      2,241
1993                    5.13      307.54       0.90     313.57      5,000        15,151       2,073       22,223          975            49      2,393
1994                    6.70      309.55       1.06     317.31      5,808        15,074       2,500       23,382          807            49      2,358
Annual Growth
(%) (1985-94)           8.6         27.8      31.5       26.9        6.4          20.0        45.2         15.7
da Average haul distance = ton-kilometers/tons transported.
/b Average travel distance = passenger-kilometers/passengers.
Sources: Xinjiang Statistical Yearbook, 1995.
Xinjiang Communications Department.



- 54 -
TABLE 2.2: XINJIANG: ROAD NETWORK, 1994
Classification
Sub-       Total      Percentage
By administration       I      II         III          IV       standard     (km)        of total
National            31       3,002      3,428        1,409         663       8,533         29.8
(0)    (2,853)    (2,817)      (1,490)     (1,543)    (8,703)        (39.4)
Provincial           3       1,003      2,527        1,968       1,296      6,797          23.8
(0)      (379)    (1,274)      (1,952)     (2,062)    (5,667)        (25.7)
County               0          64      2,187        6,499       1,473      10,223         35.7
(0)       (13)       (55)      (1,094)     (4,861)    (6,023)        (27.3)
Township             0           0           1         48          803        852           3.0
(0)       n/a        n/a          n/a         n/a         n/a          n/a
Other                4          62        364        1,493         283      2,206           7.7
(0)       (52)      (239)       (819)        (580)    (1,690)         (7.6)
Total            38       4.132      8,554       12172        3.715     28.611         100Q.
(o!    (3 297)    (4-385)      (5.355)     (9.046)   (22.083)       (100-0)
Percentage of total    0.1      14.4       29.9        42.6         13.0      100.0
(0)       (14.9)     (19.9)       (24.2)      (41.0)    (100.0)
Note: Numbers in (x) show the data in 1983.
Source: Xinjiang Communications Department.
TABLE 2.3: XINJIANG: LENGTH OF HIGHWAY BY TRAFFIC MIX AND ADT,
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROADS ONLY La
(km)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Total observed     12,349  12,103  12,215  12,210  12,840  14,325  13,820  13,669  14,546  15,330
length
Mixed Traffic
ADT>10,000                  -       -            -       -       7        -      14      21       30
ADT 5,001-10,000     342      155     213      140     258     280     328      350     385     413
ADT 2,001-5,000     1,420   2,098   1,359   1,397   1,144   1,239   1,894   1,337   2,252   2,337
ADT 301-2,000       6,587   5,961   8,847   7,941   8,577   7,506   6,853   7,043   7,277   8,344
ADT <300             621   3,889   1,934   2,732   2,861   5,293   4,745   4,925   4,611    4,338
Motor Vehicle
Traffic Only
ADT >10,000             -       -       -        -       -       7       7       14      21       30
ADT 5,001-10,000      86       77     140     130       56     106      160     414     328     390
ADT 2,001-5,000      963   1,616      687     764      800     876   1,252   1,966   2,020   2,118
ADT 301-2,000       5,698   6,159   8,026   7,043   6,486   5,861   6,446   7,214   7,810   8,012
ADT <300            5,602   4,251   3,182   4,173   4,328   7,475   5,955   4,061   4,367   4,912
/a ADT = Average Daily Traffic (both directions), expressed in medium vehicles per day.
Source: Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau.



Table 2.4: XINJIANG: VEHICLE FLEET, 1985-94
Annual
growth (/)
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992       1993     1994      1985-94
Large trucks (>7 tons)         60,977    62,992   60,293   60,372   61,475   62,798   67,678      73,964    78,257    83,019       3.3
Medium & small trucks           3,312     6,468   10,325   14,844   17,776   19,536   22,293      26,945    33,629    37,554      33.2
Buses (>25 seats)               4,752     5,173    4,975    6,144    6,735    7,225    7,776       8,607     9,696    12,275      11.8
Small buses & passenger cars   11,727    15,168   18,218   19,897   22,294   25,280   30,434      36,093    51,280    63,939      21.0
TrucksforspecialuseLa             n/a       n/a    6,363    7,216    7,246    8,093    9,419       11,676    15,133    16,578     17.5
Other vehicies for special usc Lb  n/a      n/a    2,218    4,036    4,365    4,886    5,365       6,164     6,752     7,187      10.1
Specific vehicles (             7,467     6,332    1,763    1,831    2,149    2,279    2,469       2,734     3,167     3,086       9.3L
Subtotal         88235  2396133  104.155  114.340 122.040 130097  145 434    166.183   197M916   223.638   11
Wheel tractors                 83,578    12,910  107,658  115,974  116,277  133,588  177,967    192,270   249,616   193,778       10.9
Motorcycles                    23,967    30,077   32,933   43,146   55,456   63,587   73,849      87,347   107,600   120,406      35.9
Other vehicles Id               2,121     3,730    1,307    2,797    4,036    3,578    4,380        7,149    9,475    12,265      23.2                   LA
iotl                    197-901   142d130  246.053  276.257  297L908  330.850  401.630   452.949   504.601   550087
la Includes dump trucks, oil tankers, refrigerated trucks and cement tankers.
L Includes water bowsers, workshop cars, post delivery cars, veterinary cars, cars for epidemic prevention and truck cranes.
/c Includes fire trucks, ambulances, wreckers and sentry trucks.
Ld Includes electric cars and agricultural transport vehicles.
l: Annual growth rate during 1987-94.
Source: UKH Project Feasibility Study Report, First Highway Survey and Design Institute.



- 56 -
TABLE 2.5: XINJIANG: ROAD ACCIDENTS (1985-94)
Year   Number of accidents   Number of fatalities   Number of persons injured
1985          5,174                  942                  2,820
1986          5,799                 1,183                 2,868
1987          5,989                 1,130                 3,201
1988          7,050                 1,384                 3,536
1989          5,546                 1,233                 2,766
1990          5,160                 1,193                 2,602
1991          5,280                 1,292                 2,646
1992          4,077                 1,364                 2,268
1993          4,102                 1,568                 2,639
1994          4,490                 1,712                 2,884
Source: Xinjiang Communications Department.



Table 2.6: XINJIANG: HIGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
- Seventh Five-Year Plan                              Eighth Five-Yesr Pla                                           -  -Ninth Five-Year Pla
1986       1987     1988     1989      1990   Total          1991    1992     1993        1994        1995     Total         1996       1997       1998      1999       2000        Total
1. Mwannance fee                321.88     341.37   354.54   45066    560.86   2,029.3        5049  66090   743.00        860.25      963.48   3,878 1      1,0791      1.2086     1,353.6    1,516.1    1,6980     6,855.4
of which: Amount             28946      30846   32130   415.02    52246   1.8564           0985  620.00   72005        8,1437      91464   3,6789          951 1     1,0591    1,18541     1,337.1   1,40261    5,935.32
retaied by XCD for cor-
aticson and mainteiance
2  Tolls fom  high-grade          /-6n I-               I-       I-       I         I             I       I               I           /              /            I          /           /      6811      7516       143.27
Lighways
3  GraingfmmMOC                  3950       42.50    43.60    53W0      47.00    2264         5485    1109   117.10        15000       20500    63785           264        524        552        490        500       2,330
of which:llJDH                 /-         /-       / -           I      I         I                   /        /       70 00      100 00    170 00       64 00       64 00      62 00          /          /      190.00
UICH                   /           I        I        I      /          I             I       I        I           I           /         I           /      260.00     290.00     290.00     30000    1,14000
4. GrantsfromtheRegion           2200       23.00    20.00      8.00     9.60      82.6        850         I      2.5         2.5        300      16.50        300         3.00       300        300       300        1500
5. Odtera                         2.64        3.2     6.42      498      2.90      2014        1.73    500       35S        5000       12000   1S02S        13440       15053      16859      18882    2114F        853.82
6. Externalbotrwmg                   /          I        I         I      I          I            I       I         I           /      25131    25131        371.20     1,051.8      970.7      640.0     6300       3,6637
of whirch:TUDH                  /          I         I        I      I          I             I       /        I           /      251.31    251.31      37120        351.8      3307                      /     1,0537
UJKH                   /          I         I        I      I          I             I       I        I           I           /         I           /        700        640         640       630        2,610
7. ReliefWorkforcounty               /          I        I         I      I         I             I       I         I           1         43        43          43          43         43         43         43         215
aDd village mods
ToQal                     3t6.0.2    410.07   426   51744    620.36   2-3584            1.5L7   776.    S           1.062.8    1585.79      .007      1.8947    2.98093    3.090.8    2.949.03   3.160.64   14.076.19
nI. Ezditus
I. TransferstoEnergyand          15.00      1500    15.00    1500       1500       4500       1500    1500    1500          1500       1500      7500             /          /          I           I         I           /
Communication Fund
2  Tunafemn oB Bdaet             10.00      10.00    10.00    10.00      10.00     50.00      10.00   10.00    1000         10.00       10.00    50.00        1000        1000       1000       10.00      1000       5000
Adjutilmnt' Fund
3. PablicSeourity Bureautraffic   7.42       791      8.24     1064      13.40     4761       15.64   1590    1795          2088        1107     8144            12        135         15          17        20        775
reldation esp#                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vl
4  Maintesswnce nd contruction    27937    298.82   308.82   395.41    491 10   1,773.5       7951   63586    7127         89938      1,0471  4,23216        1,7237    2.78843     2,8797    2,72703   2,822.25   12,941 11
(a) Routine mamineance        49.00      5363    53.69    5452       6834      279.18      7006   3801    9400          10165         110   41412            115        125        125        135        150        650
(b) Periodiscmaintenance      16.00      26.10    21.37    39.54     54.06     157.07      58.26   62.99      89.9        98.6        6.5   316.29            17        185        185        185        185         757
(c) Reabilitatoneandnew      111.92     146.23   153.76   226.71    283.55    922.17       40.52  37251   40826         52667     1,10221  2,75017       1.3684      2.3127     2,5117       2,316   2,11473    10,623.63
coescesnt                                                                                                                                                      9
of whids :Q)TUDH                /           I        I        I      I          I             I       /    78.79      227.90      590.92    89761        680.6       660.5      6317           /    1           1,9728
(i)JUKH                                                     I I  I  I  I  I          I       /    1028        1773        7126      9927       30000      1,230.0    1,2600       1,270   1,21073    5,27073
(d) Subsidy of county         3460       35.41    3635    3762       3900      182.98      4195   4802    5050           7980          50    27027            57         70         77         88         97         389
and village rotb
(e) Emergency and             46 25      14.02    18.55     1109      19.74    109.65      38.43   59.53      14 5       24 00         13    149 46        20 00      21 00      24 00       20 00     25 00         110
nr dinaers
(f) Other                     21.60      23 43    2510    25 93      26.41     122.47      30 29   54 80    55 10       68.63          80    288.82        76.59      80.12         82       84.77        88      41148
5  Adminristrstionexpenes/       4820       50.01    52.20    54.29     56.46    261.16       58.72   61.07      703         749       9061      3556           66          83      9619         102     12417       47136
6  Othereexpe_o  L               2603       2833    3030    3210        3440      151 16      3670   3897        40.2       4262        5431     2128           40          43         47         50         55         235
7. Repayment of loans                                                                                                                                                                    I I  I    I  I  I  I  I  I  I  /  /  I  I    86.22  86 22
RPliefworkforcountyand                                I I  I   I       I         I             I       I         I          /          43        43          43          43         43         43         43         215
village roads
IQ                        l386 02    41007   42456   51744    62036   2358.5            1557   7768    B662         10628      158579      507       1.894.7    2.98093    3.090.89    2.949.03   3.16Q64   14.07619
L ",'meam nil.
& Otber revenues include funds resuling from construction of private roads (by XCD units) to major traffic generators
L  Administuation ex_pen    include expene for administration ad management of maintenance deparutmetts/units, comntucrion
of ancillary works, technology development, scientific reseach and training/education, investigations of trefic volumes and road
condition sveys, contsuction of brming for staff, cotnstuction and maintenance eqwupment, communications equipment, and collection nd mangement f road maintenace fee
g Other expenses include expene for social security. retired personnel, schools for employees' children, labor inurance, safety and public relations
Suc  Xinjiang Communications Departsnent, November 1995



Table 2.7: Xinjiang Trunk Highway Improvement Program in 9FYP (1996-2000)
Ninth Five-Year Plan (Y million)
Name of Project         Length  Original          Proposed standard   Planned                                                                     Remarks
standard                             schedule      1996      1997    998       1999  2000             Total
Turpan-Urumqi-           283.3  New             Class-I, 101 km      95-98         680.6     660.5    631.7                         1,972.8
Dahuangshan                     construction    Class-li vehicle only,
182bm
Urumqi-Kuitun           266.64  New             Expressway 218.6 km   97-2000       300      1,230    1,260   1,270  1,210.73      5,270.73
construction    Class-I, 30.6 km
Class-Il, vehicle only
17.4 km
Bachu-Babanshuimo          160  Class 1, 111    Class-Il             96-99            50        50      100      150                   350
Altay-Buljin               Ill  Substandard     Class-Il             96-97           100       100                                     200
Turpan-Shanshan             90  Class 11, III   Class-Il vehicle only   97-2000                          40       80        50          170
Wuchia-Yelkstan            150  Substandard     Class-IlIl           96-98         67.89      62.2    79.91                            210 Cross border
highway due to the
open door policy.
Altay-Hongshanzui          150  New             Class-IlIl           97-2000                    30       50       96        84         260 Cross border
construction                                                                                                highway due to the                    00
open door policy.
Yining-Dularta              80  Substandard     Class-IlL            98-2000                             30       30        50          110 Cross border
highway due to the
open door policy.
Balikun-Laohuangmiao       180  New             Class-Ill            98-2000                             50      140       130         320 Cross border
construction                                                                                                highway due to the
open door policy.
Zhaosu-Muzharte            110  New             Class-l1l            98-2000                             40       60        60          160 Cross border
construction                                                                                                highway due to the
open door policy.
Mulei-Wulasitai            140  New             Class-l1l            98-2000                             50       70        80         200 Cross border
construction                                                                                                highway due to the
open door policy.
Key sections of            250  Improvement                          96-2000          80        80       80      190       170         600
National Highway 314
Key sections of            300  Improvement                          96-2000          90       100       100     230       280         800
National Highway 217
& 218
TQlh               2253.22                                                   1.368.49    2.312.7  2.511.7   2.3J    2,114.73    10.623.63



- 59-
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(December 1995 prices: $1.00 = Y 8.2)
Y million                         S million               Foreign
Local    Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total     costs (%)
A. WORKS
(a) UKH
(i) Civil Works, inc. Link Roads La   1,383.1    1,383.0    2,766.1   168.7       168.6       337.3         50
(ii) Stabilization of abandoned mines   20.0       20.0       40.0      2.4        2.4          4.8         50
(iii) Buildings                         130.9       56.0      186.9    16.0         6.8         22.8        30
(iv) Supply and installation (E&M)       19.6       78.5       98.1      2.4        9.6         12.0        S0
(b) Highway maintenance                  331.3       246.0      577.3    40.4        30.0         70.4        43
(c) Highway Safety                        14.4        14.3       28.7      1.8        1.7          3.5        50
Subtotal                          1 89923     1.797.8    3.697.1   231L2      212A1        4            49
B. CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
(a) UKH and Linking Roads                 65.5        28.3       93.8      8.0        3.4         11.4
(b) Highway Maintenance (HMC)              2.8         0.6        3.4      0.3        0.1          0.4
Subtotal                   68                   23         222   8               3U1
C. EQUIPMENT Lb
(a) UKH
(i) Laboratories                         0.4        4.5         4.9     0.1        0.5          0.6
(ii) Operations and maintenance          6.7        46.5       53.2      0.8        5.7          6.5
Subtotal                              IA1                  1i   0          5     .1 9        1
(b) Maintenance of Highway Network         2.2        24.5       26.7      0.3        3.0          3.3
(c) Institutional strengthening            3.3         1.6        4.9      0.4        0.2          0.6
(d) Highway Safety                         2.0         0.4        2.4      0.3        0.0          0.3
Total                            14.6J        25        22A       12         2.4          l3         84
D. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
AND TRAINING
(a) Training and Study                      2.2        6.3        8.5      0.3        0.8          1.1
(b) Technical Asssistancc                   0.3        1.2        1.5      0.0        0.2          0.2
Subtotal                              2          21        101          0 3                            75
E. STUDIES
(a) Transport Linkages                     2.0        0.2        2.2      0.3         0.0          0.3
(b) Highway Safety                         0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0         0.0          0.0
Subtotal                              2.0       21         2.2      21 3        01
ITotal Base Cost               19867    1.911.      3,898.6   2421         2130        47            49
Physical contingencies L                  196.8     182.6      379.4    24.0         22.2         46.2
Price contingencies ad                   708.5      199.5      908.0    86.4         24.3        110.7
Base Cost with contineencies   2892202 2294.0    5-186.0   3512 29                       2.A
Land acquisition and resettlement        210.9        0.0      210.9    25.7          0.0         25.7
Total Proiect Cost             3-10292 2294.0    5-396 9   378.            279         658u          42
LI  Excludes taxes of Y 77.8 million ($9.5 million) as well as commitment fees and interest on the Bank loan during construction.
Taxes and duties would not be financed from the proceeds of the loan.
Lb  Excludes taxes (VAT) and duties of Y 56.9 million (S6.9 million).
&   Ten percent of items A and B.
a   Includes Y I million and S55,000 to be allocated for either further study in Training purposes after completion of High Grade
Highway Management Study in Henan in 1997-98.



- 60 -
TABLE 3.2: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
Disbursement profile
Bank fiscal year             Estimated disbursements        of transport projects
and semester          Semester    Cumulative       %          in China (%)
i997 a
June 30, 1997             30           30          10               6
i199
December31, 1997          22           52          17              11
June 30, 1998             20           72          24              16
i99
December31, 1998          40          112          37              26
June30, 1999              30          142          47              38
2000
December31, 1999          42          184          61             48
June 30, 2000             31          215          72             60
2Q01
December 31, 2000         45          260          87              69
June 30, 2001             23          283          94              78
2Q02
December 31, 2001         12          295          98              90
June 30, 2002              5          300         100             100
Notes: (1)   Project Completion Date: December 2001.
(2)    Loan Closing Date: December 2002.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 61 -
TABLE 4.1: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED TRAFFIC AND TRAFFIC GROWTH
IN THE UKH CORRIDOR
A. Actual and Projected Traffic Volume (measured in mte/day)
Year
Actual                                      Projected
Road Section      1987        1989       1991       1993        1995       2000       2010        2020
Urumqi Transit     2,898      4,277       7,563      9,033     11,360      11,248     24,144     41,401
Highway
Urumqi-Changji    5,346       7,239       9,503     10,830     13,963      19,875     40,988     69,466
Changji-Hutubi     5,728      8,599       9,012     10,031     11,735      18,219     35,379     61,086
Hutubi-Huke        5,455      4,756       5,337      6,771      7,500      12,489     27,424     51,236
Road Fork
Huke Road                     3,605      4,371       4,988      5,481      13,550     28,500     53,000
Fork-Manasi
Manasi-Shihezi                4,537      4,287       5,733      6,279      12,064     26,708     49,738
Shihezi-Shawan                3,747      4,014       5,919      6,669      9,244      20,010     38,542
Shawan-Anjihai                2,165       2,466      4,113      4,888       9,011     19,483     36,759
Anjihai-Kuitun                2,707       2,645      3,881      4,364      9,035      19.538     36,543
B. Actual and ProjectedTraffic Growth Rates
Annual Growth Rates                           Period of Growth
Road Section     1987-1995      1991-1995   1993-1995   1995-2000  2000-2010  2010-2020   1995-2020
Urumqi Transit          18.6%        7.0%        12.1%       -0.2%        7.9%         5.5%        5.3%
Highway
Urumqi-Changji          12.8%        6.6%        13.5%        7.3%        7.5%        5.4%         6.6%
Changji-Hutubi           9.4%        4.5%         8.2%        9.2%        6.9%         5.6%        6.8%
Hutubi-Huke Road         4.1%        5.8%        5.2%        17.9%        8.2%        6.4%         9.4%
Fork
Huke Road Fork-                      3.8%        4.8%        16.7%        7.7%        6.4%         8.9%
Manasi
Manasi-Shihezi                       6.6%        4.7%        18.0%        8.3%        6.4%         9.4%
Shihezi-Shawan                       8.8%        6.1%        13.6%        8.0%        6.8%         8.6%
Shawan-Anjihai                      12.1%        9.0%        16.6%        8.0%        6.6%         9.1%
Anjihai-Kuitun                       8.7%        6.0%        15.7%        8.0%        6.5%         8.9%



Table 4.2: PROPORTION OF PROJECTED TRAFFIC ON NEW AND EXISTING HIGHWAY
A. Vehicles per day (measured in mte)
2000                                2010                                   2020
Road Section          New      Exisitng    Total          New       Exisiting     Total       New        Exisiting    Total
Urumqi Transit Highway       8,823     2,425    11,248         16,036       8,108      24,144       19,865        15,112    34,977
Urumqi - Changji            18,242      1,633    19,875        33,528       7,460      40,988       41,474        19,303    60,777
Changji - Hutubi            15,402     2,817    18,219         31,158       6,908      38,066       39,096        19,024    58,120
Hutubi - Huke Road Fork     14,630     2,554    17,184         28,579       6,838      35,417       36,947        16,446    53,393
Huke Road Fork - Manasi      8,976     3,513    12,489         22,829       4,595      27,424       32,996        12,383    45,379
Manasi - Shihezi             8,919     3,145    12,064         22,543       4,165       26,708      32,433        11,498    43,931
Shihezi - Shawan             7,769      1,475    9,244         17,003       3,007      20,010       25,181        6,009     31,190
Shawan - Anjihai             7,573      1,438    9,011         16,338       3,095       19,433      24,171        5,845     30,016
Anjihai - Kuitun             7,489      1,546    9,035         16,213       3,325       19,538      23,433         5,845    29,278
B. Percentage of daily corridor traffic on each road
2000                                2010                                 2020
Road Section          New      Exisitng     Total          New      Exisiting      Total        New      Exisiting    Total
Urumqi Transit Highway       78%          22       100%            66%       34%          100%          57%         43%       100%
Urumqi - Changji             92%           8       100%            82%        18%         100%          68%         32%       100%
Changji - Hutubi             85%          15       100%            82%       18%          100%          67%         33%       100%
Hutubi - Huke Road Fork      85%          15       100%            81%        19%         100%          69%         31%       100%
Huke Road Fork - Manasi      72%          28       100%            83%        17%         100%          73%         27%       100%
Manasi - Shihezi             74%          26       100%            84%        16%         100%          74%         26%       100%
Shihezi - Shawan             84%          16       100%            85%        15%         100%          81%         19%       100%
Shawan - Anjihai             84%          16       100%            84%        16%         100%          81%         19%       100%
Anjihai - Kuitun             83%          17       100%            83%        17%         100%          80%         20%       100%



- 63 -
TABLE 4.3: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS FOR THE WHOLE ROUTE
A. EIRR
Benefit                                        Cost Variation
Variation                     -20%          -10%        0%      10%       20%
-20%                         20.5%         18.9%     17.6%     16.5%     15.5
-10%                         22.1%         20.5%     19.1%     18.0%     16.9
0%                          23.7%        22.0%      20.6%    19.3%     18.2
+10%                          25.2%        23.4%      21.9%    20.6%     19.5
+20%                          26.6%        24.7%      23.2%    21.8%     20.6
B. Probability
Cost Variation
Benefit                      -20%    -10%        0%    +10%    +20%         Total
Variation Probablility                                                     100%
-20%    20%             1.00%    2.00%    7.00%    6.00%    4.00%       20%
-10%    30%             1.50%    3.00%   10.50%    9.00%    6.00%       30%
0%     35%            1.75%    3.50%   12.25%   10.50%    7.00%       35%
+10%     10%            0.50%    1.00%    3.50%    3.00%    2.00%       10%
+20%      5%            0.25%    0.50%    1.75%    1.50%    1.00%        5%
Total       100%               5%      10%      35%      30%      20%      100%
C. Contribution of Probability Weighted EIRR% to Total EIRR% Value
Benefit                                   Cost variation
variation            -20%      -10%        0%       +10%       +20%         Total
-20%             0.2%       0.4%      1.2%       1.0%       0.6%        3.4%
-10%             0.3%       0.6%      2.0%       1.6%       1.0%        5.5%
0%             0.4%       0.8%      2.5%       2.0%       1.3%        7.0%
+10%              0.1%      0.2%      0.8%       0.6%       0.4%        2.1%
+20%              0.1%      0.1%      0.4%       0.3%       0.2%        1.1%
1.1%      2.1%      6.9%       5.6%       3.5%       19.3%



- 64 -
TABLE 4.4: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS
Basic results
Number                                           Road section                            EIRR%          NPV
I                       Urabo - Changfanggou                                              16.0         1.69
2                       Changfanggou - Xishan                                             22.1          9.80
3                       Xishan - West Station                                             21.8         14.59
4                       West Station - Bagang                                             20.9          6.22
5                       Bagang - Changji                                                  22.3        25.74
6                       Changji - Hutubi                                                  20.7        45.11
7                       Hutubi - Wugongtai                                                20.6        24.41
8                       Wugongtai - Manasi                                                22.7         59.58
9                       Manasi - Shihezi                                                  20.2         12.66
10                      Shihezi - Wulawusu                                                20.6        31.37
11                      Wulawusu -Shawan                                                  19.2        15.34
12                      Shawan - Anjihai                                                  18.9        25.95
13                      Anjihai - Kuitun                                                  19.1        38.39
Whole route
Includes Sections A,B,and C                                      20.5        331.60
Comparison of altematives
a) Class 11
A                       Xiaodiwopu - West Station                                         28.7         1.11
B                       Xiaodiwopu - Shangshahe                                           27.3        24.74
C                       West Station - Shangshahe                                         27.6        26.02
b) Staged construction
A                       Xiaodiwopu - West Station                                         27.6         1.22
B                       Xiaodiwopu - Shangshahe                                           24.0        24.33
C                       West Station - Shangshahe                                         24.2        25.55
c) Class I
A                       Xiaodiwopu - West Station                                         21.5        22.34
B                       Xiaodiwopu - Shangshahe                                           21.6        23.47
C                       West Station - Shangshahe                                         20.5        24.50
Link roads
a                       Xishan Link Road                                                  34.3         6.41
b                       Changii Link Road                                                 25.5         1.52
c                       Manasi Link Road                                                  12.1         0.20
d                       Shihezi Link Road                                                 33.7         2.81
Changji altematives
Xiaodiwopu - Changji                                             13.4          4.59
Changji - Yushugou                                                17.7        13.94
Yushugou - Wugontai                                              21.6         31.24
Sensitivity tests
Without tolls                                                    23.0        350.40
Excluding time saving benefits                                   18.5        298.50



- 65 -
TABLE 4.5: SENSITIVITY OF EVALUATION RESULTS TO VARIATIONS IN TOLL LEVEL
Toll Charge                       FIRR                        EIRR
(US cents/veh-km)                     %                            O
5                             -0.1                        21.5
10                              4.8                        20.5
16                              7.8                        20.0
2 1                             9.9                         19.3
321                            13.0                         18.2
42                             14.8                         16.8
62                             11.5                          9.2
83                             12.5                          7.7
166                             11.8                         3.3



Chart 1: XINJIANG COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (XCD)
Prefectural                                    XnigCmuicainDprmn                             Xinjiang High-Grade Highway|
_Goverrnments &                                           Comncain Deprten                          Constructio n Authority l
_Municipalities                                                    __    I
---- Headquarters Divisions---                                                           Execution
oPreectural             Administrative Office           Highway                    Xinjiang Roads &           Supervision
- Communication                  I    -  ~~~Administration             Bridge Company                Ofc
Division         q   Policy& Regulation              Bureau *                I Bg
Financial               Transportation              Xinjiang Goods &
Mwaicipal     ~            Financial            _  Administration              Materials Company _
Communication            Science & Technology             Bureau                     L                        Xinjiang High-
Division  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~    ~     _________jLabor Service                                Grade Highway
Labor&  Salary                                             Company               Administration
(Project Execution
Personnel & Security |           Xinjiang Highway             Xinjiang                 Office) *
Planning, Survey        Communication
Organization Membership              Design Institute           Hospital
Propaganda                    Xinjiang Traffic       Translation Service
_[77       ~ Auditing                  Science Institute           Office
Supervision                      Xinjiang          [Quota Management
R   Communication            Center *
q   Retired Carders  {        |   School *
Educ                                                 Engineering Quality
Xinjiang            Control Center *
Toll Collection                 Communication;
Technical Workers      Telecommunications
School *             & Information
Center o
*Units to receive organizational strengthening and training under the project.



Chart 2: HIGH-GRADE HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
P~,jc. Eiaj           HGHI Coiutruion| 
P hject Execution   .............    uat                                                                                     C 
| Chief                                                            l                                                                |...      .     .........     .|HIghdf  u   | Hi5hway  | TrannepcSure,h     Ez mginesi|
ChiEfCmedin                            uaion   ...........................        Hity                                                                              F P=&Adminiton  Adminimijce  PIStey,    _  Quxity
Office                                                                          Admi_I A  tion                                                        Bur|au          Diign Intiute         Control
Engintwing |   l   l                        l                                             l                                   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tmfric  Engiean
_  TedmlobSy    2    Fin nciel                                                                                                       l                                   Science    _ _      Qe
_          l                 ~~~~~~~~Compuahent ive                                         .        _     ,SieiI  iueM                                                                   n
[Equip.ent & |C                              |   nning &                                                                                                                                  Manatemig n
-|         |    -al    Statica                                                                                                                                                               ni  
[   I      _            | |  ~~~~~Tethooy |   L   Ca _e|                                     li                                                                   do       |       naatn 
*Enventlz||n Zr|llAnul 
AdminarauirinvI
OP I
|1 Financid   |fic
||En_nein   |            -. |     | |   Xdtn 
Tay |i   -LnL   _L!Lj
1 - m . -
_L!E



Chart 3: XINJIANG HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION BUREAU (XHAB)
|Xinjiang HighwayAcdministrationil
Road Construc-   Bitumen Stor-    Highway       Class I Highway Man-       Prefecture,      Highway Manage-
Transport      tion Machinery    age General      General    agement Divisions, Man-      County, City      ment Department
Company (1)        Factory (I)      Station (2)    Division (14)  agement Departmnent (I)   and Town Highway    (other unit)
Bitumen Stor-
Maintenance    Ve e    age Brunch          Highway      Engineering   Emergency              Maintenance        Maintenance
Workshop (1)  Team(2)    Station (5)    Division (77)   Tearn (25)    Squad (1)                Team (67)            Team
00
Maintenance
Gang (550)
Note: Numbers in brackets represent existing number of subunits.



- 69 -                     ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1.   In order to help address Xinjiang's highway maintenance problems, XCD carried
out a highway network maintenance study financed under XHPI. The study proposed a
four-year Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (periodic maintenance) based on an
annual budget ceiling of about Y 185 million, which would provide the basis for selection
of actual road lengths to be included in the highway maintenance program under the
proposed XHP2. The highway maintenance and rehabilitation program would be aimed
at stabilizing the conditions of the existing network at a maintainable level by
reconstruction of seriously deteriorated highway sections and by overlay rehabilitation of
most needed sections.
2.    Implementation. The highway maintenance and rehabilitation program would be
executed from 1977 onwards to 2000 with about the same level of expenditures each year
(Table 1). It was agreed that XHAB would carry out detailed engineering investigation
and design of all highway sections to be included in the four-year program. The format
of the engineering design will follow the national standard used by XHAB for highway
rehabilitation, and will among others include plan and profile drawings, pavement design
and details of drainage structures. The roads to be included in the first year program
(1997), are shown in Table 2, identifying each contract, the name and sections of road to
be improved, the type of improvement intervention, the estimated costs and Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for each road.
3.    Selection of Road Sections. The selection of roads was based on the analysis and
the recommendations made in the Xinjiang Highway Maintenance Study (XHMS). The
study was carried out by XHAB, assisted by experts from the Finnish National Road
Administration (FinnRA), between November 1994 and December 1995. The Final
Report of the study was completed on January 10, 1996. The study analyses were based
on the use of the latest versions of the HDM-III software and the China Pavement
Management System (CPMS). Road conditions and other basic data needed to run the
models were collected by XHAB, and included:
(a)   Paved Roads (9,721 kin)
* distress data by a visual survey for each kilometer;
* deflection data by Benkelman Beam measurement, for every 100 m;
and
* roughness survey by Bump Integrators, calibrated to obtain the real IRI
values.



-70 -                      ANNEX 1
(b)   Gravel Roads (4,935 km)
* road width and shoulder width;
* gravel thickness and age; and
 material properties for surface, base and subgrade.
In addition, data were collected for traffic volumes, vehicle weights, vehicle operating
costs as well as geometric and enviromnental data.
4.    For the HDM-III analysis, the road network was divided into representative
sections in the database, based on pavement type, traffic volume, roughness and
deflection for paved roads, and road classification, gravel thickness and type of terrains
for gravel roads. The whole network included 24 homogenous segments with asphalt
concrete, 32 with surface treatment and 16 gravel. Four different maintenance strategies
were considered for paved roads in addition to normal routine maintenance: (i) resealing
(10 or 25 mm), (ii) overlay (25,40 or 60 mm), (iii) strengthening with 25 mm surface
treatment and 200 mm base course, and (iv) strengthening with 20, 40, or 60 mm asphalt
concrete and 200 mm gravel base course. For gravel roads, the maintenance and
rehabilitation options included grading, spot regravelling, regravelling and upgrading to
surface treatment.
5.    The basic screening of various maintenance and rehabilitation options was done
using the HDM-III model. The optimization of maintenance interventions took into
account the cost of routine maintenance, overlay cost, strengthening cost and the resulting
vehicle operating costs to select investments with the highest discounted benefits.
Several runs were made with the HDM-III model to prepare the four-year (1997-2000)
maintenance and rehabilitation program with a budget limitation of Y 185 million per
year. The objectives of the selection process were three-fold:
(a)   to select one or two feasible maintenance actions for each section of the
road network;
(b)   for each section to schedule one or two of the most feasible maintenance
actions into the four-year period (1997-2000); and
(c)   to optimize the net benefits of the investments by selecting an optimal set
of maintenance actions for the four-year period (1997-2000).
Two categories of roads, totaling about 2,500 km, were excluded from the HDM-111
analysis:
(d)   roads in excellent condition, which obviously do not need any
maintenance intervention during the four-year (1997-2000) period, i.e.,
where normal routine maintenance activities would be sufficient.



- 71-                     ANNEX 1
(e)   roads in poor condition, but having such low traffic volumes that any
investment in the four-year (1997-2000) period would be obviously
uneconomical.
6.    The final output of XHMS was a proposed four-year maintenance program at a
total cost of Y 742 million. The program was presented in a matrix format, showing road
lengths and maintenance interventions for each homogenous road segment, all with an
EIRR higher than 32 percent. In general, the high roughness on existing paved roads, did
not allow a choice of resealings or thin overlays. An asphalt concrete overlay was
selected for the better road sections with less deflection and roughness. The poorest
sections with very high deflections and roughness were selected for strengthening. The
analysis of gravel roads revealed that it was not feasible at this stage to upgrade any
section to paved standard (surface treatment), even though some had relatively high
traffic figures. The main reason was that upgrading costs would be high due to the
remote location of these sections, and to avoid damage from frequent flooding and
landslides.
7.    Project component includes financing of a four-year (1997-2000) Highway
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (MRP) that covers 2,450 km, or about 78
percent of the total cost of the whole four-year program referred to in paragraph 6 above.
The individual road sections shown in Table 2 were selected from the proposed four-year
program in matrix format in XHMS. In the selection of sections, engineering and
practical aspects of implementation, such as packaging of contracts, location and need for
a uniform standard of sections were taken into account. Also, the administrative aspect
was considered in relation to contract packaging, as the design and supervision
organization would reflect the geographical division between the relevant highway
county bureaus. Consequently, the first year maintenance and rehabilitation program
would include 12 contracts to be procured under NCB. The overall EIRR of the first year
program was estimated to about 92 percent.
8.    Monitoring and Key Indicators of Success:  Recorded average surface
roughness (IRI) of the paved highway network is an indication of the serviceability of the
region's highway network. The four-year Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program is
envisaged to result in improved serviceability. The road surface roughness on the paved
road network is estimated to improve from a present average IRI of 6.7 mm/m to about
5.6 mm/m after the four-year program. The proportional reduction in the total transport
cost would be greater, as the improved road lengths would carry more than average
traffic. The Bank and XCD would, during each year's supervision mission, review the
maintenance activities undertaken during the previous year, and compare the results with
those agreed in the previous year, and agree on the periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation program for the following year. The average road surface roughness on the
paved road network would be surveyed once a year and would serve as an indicator of
achievement of the objective of improved serviceability.



- 72 -                    ANNEX I
Table 1: COST SUMMARY OF HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Road Lengths       Total            Total
Components                     (km)          Y million        $ million
Year 1 (1997)
(i) Overlay                   318.0           51.4             6.3
(ii) Strengthening            244.0           87.4            10.6
Subtotal                                      18               16.9
Year 2 (1998)
(i) Overlay                   401.8           64.3             7.8
(ii) Strengthening            243.6           83.8            10.2
Subtotal                                      14.1             1
Year 3 (1999)
(i) Overlay                   253.5           40.6             5.0
(ii) Strengthening            296.4          101.8            12.4
Subtotal                                     1A2A             17.4
Year 4 (2000)
(i) Overlay                   520.4           83.3            10.2
(ii) Strengthening            172.9           59.7             7.3
Subtotal                                    14               11-5-
lotal                   2,450.6          577              70.4



-73 -                             ANNEX I
Table 2: FOUR-YEAR MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM
CONTRACT PACKAGES FOR THE FIRST YEAR (1997)
Contract    Road                     Start        End                    Cost        EIRR
No.       Code      Strategy        km          km        Length    Y million        %
1997/1     S102          1            0.0        20.0      20.0        2.80          169.8
S102         3           20.0        33.0       13.0        4.25           95.0
S106         1            0.0          7.6       7.6        1.22          138.9
1997/2     G216          1          673.0       701.0      28.0        3.92          116.7
S104         3            0.0         11.7      11.7        4.92           27.0
1997/3     S232          3            0.0         7.0        7.0       2.78          192.2
G312          1        4,433.0     4,461.0      28.0        4.47          280.8
1997/4     G217          3          370.0       376.0        6.0        2.94         138.6
G217          1         376.0        379.1       3.1        1.12           66.6
G217         3          379.0        391.25     12.3        5.15          127.5
1997/5     S227          1           49.0        87.0       38.0        6.84          60.3
S227         3           87.0        104.0      17.0        7.15           88.7
S227         1          104.0        118.0      14.0        2.52           67.6
1997/6     S227          1          132.0       164.0      32.0         5.76          68.7
S227         1          197.0       223.0       26.0        4.68           75.6
S227         1          223.0       249.0       26.0        4.68           70.2
1997/7     G314          1          126.0       152.3      26.3        3.69          134.8
1997/8     S227          3           24.0        36.5       12.5       5.25           77.3
S227         3           36.5        49.0       12.5        5.25           77.3
1997/9     G218          1          611.0       620.0        9.0        1.26          24.4
6218         3          620.0        634.0      14.0        4.58           94.3
G218          1         634.0        637.0       3.0        0.42           14.2
1997/10    G314          1          274.0       331.0       57.0        7.98           90.5
G314         3          331.0        350.0      19.0        6.21           98.1
1997/11     G314         3          350.0       369.0       19.0        6.21           91.1
G314         3          369.0        379.0      10.0        3.27           98.8
G314         3          379.0       404.0       25.0        8.18           29.8
1997/12    G314          3          476.0       498.0       22.0        7.19          407.4
G314         3          498.0        520.0      22.0        7.19          169.0
G314         3          520.0        541.0      21.0        6.86           90.4
Total               Strategy 1                              318       51.4
1997                Strategy 3                             244        87.4
Contracts               Total                                 562      138.8            92.0
Note: Strategy 1 = 40 mm asphalt concrete overlay
Strategy 3 = 60 mm asphalt concrete overlay + 200 mm base course



- 74 -                    ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND
TRAINING
This Annex on Institutional Strengthening and Training includes the following
elements:
* Appendix 1 includes brief descriptions of the organizations to be strengthened under
this project. These include training and research organizations already covered in the
previous project, as well as organizations to be strengthened for the first time under
the present project;
* Appendix 2 details the subjects included in the Training Program, by organization
and by source of training (i.e. training in China, study and awareness tours and longer
term training abroad); and
- Appendix 3 presents the total cost of the Institutional Strengthening and Training
component, by organizations to be strengthened and major element (i.e. Training,
Equipment and Technical Assistance).



- 75 -                     ANNEX2
Appendix 1
APPENDIX 1 TO ANNEX 2: ORGANIZATIONS TO BE
STRENGTHENED
Xinjiang Communications Department (XCD)
1.    The Xinjiang  Communications Department (XCD) is the governmental
department in charge of highway and waterway transport within XAR. It is a policy-
making agency, supervising the overall transport system, setting strategic operational and
development objectives, regulating the transport system and setting sector management
policies, with planning and implementation oversight responsibilities. XCD oversees the
operations of the Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau (XHAB), the Transport
Administration Bureau (TAB), and the High-Grade Highway Administration
Bureau (XHGHAB). The High-Grade Highway Construction Authority (XHGHCA)
oversees the construction and supervision of the works on high-grade highway
developments in XAR.
Project Execution Office (PEO)
2.    The Project Execution Office (PEO) operates under the supervision of XHGHCA
and XCD. It was established in April 1992 to supervise the construction of high-grade
highways with external funding. The PEO will become part of XHGHAB, responsible
for management of high-grade highways in the Region. It has an establishment of 40
organized in 5 offices. By 1998, it will have a headquarters staff of 125 and a total
establishment of 1,400.
Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau (XHGHAB)
3.    XHGHAB  was founded in February 1994, by approval of the People's
Government of XAR. The authorized establishment of XHGHAB is 130. Most of the
staff are recent University and academy graduates, and some of the
technical/management staff have been transferred from subordinating units within XCD
and other relevant departments. They are responsible for the construction, operations and
management of high-grade highways in Xinjiang.
Highway Engineering Quality Control Center (XHEQCC)
4.    XHEQCC was founded in 1994 by approval of XAR. XHEQCC carries out
mandatory supervision and management control of the quality of highway projects, in
accordance with technical specifications, regulations and quality inspection criteria issued
by the MOC. Any highway project, with respect to design, construction and supervision,
can be supervised by XHEQCC.



-76 -                      ANNEX2
Appendix 1
Highway Engineering Quota Management Center (HEQMC)
5.    The HEQMC is part of XCD. Its main functions are to establish highway
engineering quota standards, carry out management of highway engineering quota
standards to pursue a quota-wage system, and train and certify professional staff in charge
of quota standards and budget.
Telecommunications Information Center (TIC)
6.    The TIC of XCD was founded in 1993 by approval of XAR. It is within the
jurisdiction of XCD, as well as a Class II long distance telecommunication station of
MOC. The authorized establishment of the TIC is 35; at the present time only 9 staff are
available. The TIC is responsible for radio communication system within the jurisdiction
of XCD, telecommunications and information network among highway management
agencies in Xinjiang and all over China, and planning, construction and management of
Class III, Class IV telecommunication stations within the jurisdiction of XCD.
Xinjiang Communications Technical Workers School (XCTWS)
7.    The role of XCTWS, a vocational school, is to train qualified technical workers
for XCD institutions. Founded in 1953, the school started as a training center for vehicle
operators and drivers. In 1984, its scope was broadened to repair and maintenance of
highway construction and maintenance equipment. In 1990, the program was expanded
to include technical training for highway construction and maintenance.
Xinjiang Communications School (XCS)
8.    XCS was established in 1982. The school is the sole polytechnic institution
addressing technician-level needs in the transportation sector. Its basic role is to train
technical and management personnel in the fields of highway, automobile, planning and
statistics, financial affairs and accounting for XCD and its subdivisions. The school also
prepares for preuniversity entry at Xian Highway Institute. Up to 1991, students were
admitted on the basis of selection criteria; since that date the school recruits at the level of
counties, and as a result there is a higher proportion of attendees from the 17 poorer
counties in the Xinjiang Region. The school currently benefits from support under
XHP1.
Shihezi Training Center of Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau (STC)
9.    The STC is subordinated to XHAB. Its main function is to carry out training of
cadres from units under the jurisdiction of XCD. The Television Technical School of
XCD and Working Station of XHAB are located in this Center. Presently, it consists of a
teaching building (24 standard classrooms) and a comprehensive office building which is
about to be completed. The Center has 16 years of training experience, various teaching
materials, audiovisual apparatus and good teaching conditions.  The Center lacks
qualified teachers, training instruments and technical equipment for training purposes.



- 77 -                    ANNEX2
Appendix 1
Xinjiang Highway Planning, Survey and Design Institute (XHPSDI)
10.   XHPSD was founded in April 1961. It is the only comprehensive highway
survey and design unit in XAR. With a staff of 402 (including 150 specialized technical
cadres, 24 senior engineers, and 56 middle-level technical cadres), XHPSDI has
completed more than 300 designs in Xinjiang, including most of the large national
highway projects, large bridges and airport runways. Under XHPI, XHPSDI sought,
through training and specialized equipment, to upgrade the competence of its professional
staff in the planning and design of highways, bridges and traffic engineering.
Xinjiang Traffic Science Research Institute (XTSRI)
11.   XTSRI is the sole research and development organization in Xijiang for highway
traffic analysis. It has a total staff of 1 10, including 15 senior, 32 junior and 41 assistant
engineers. The Institute operates with funding from the Xinjiang Region's Science and
Technology Committee, from XCD, and from contract work for the MOC, and Regional
Science and Technology Committee. Additional funding is derived from motor vehicle
testing, survey and design of new roads and bridges, test of new materials and paving
technology. It was called upon to undertake a study of intercity and rural passenger
transport, which forms a part of the proposed project.



APPENDIX 2 TO ANNEX 2: TRAINING PROGRAM La
Training In China       Study & Awareness Tours        Training Abroad                Total
Subject Of Training       Agency      N       P/M      Yuan        N       P/M      US $     N      P/M        USS       YUAN          USS      USS %
('000)                     ('000)                      ('000)                   ('000)            Total
Organizational Strengthening:
Highway Engineering             XHGHAB                                     6         4       36        4       48       120       1,280        156      100.0
XCS                                        I         1        6                                     49          6
Highway Maintenance             XHGHAB                                                                 2       24        60        492          60      100.0
Traffic Engineering             XHGHAB                                     6         4       36        2       24        60         788         96      100.0
Financial control               XHGHAB                                                                 2       24        60         492         60      100.0
Engineering Geology             XHGHAB                                                                 I       12        30         246        30       100.0
00
Highway Operations Mngmt        XHGHAB                                     9         6       54        4       48       120       1,427        174      100.0
Economic Management             XHGHAB                                                                 3       36        90         738        90       100.0
Training Organization Mngmt     XHGHAB                                     6         4       36                           0         296         36      100.0
XCS                                        I         1        6                          0          49          6       100.0
XCTWS                                      I        1         6                          0          49          6       100.0
STC                                        I         1        6                          0          49          6       100.0
Subtotal                               Q          Q                         2;1      186      18       216      540        5.52        126       n0
Staff Training:
Highway Engineering             XHGHAB    30            15       32                           0                           0         32          4         0.0
Highway&Bridge Engineerg        HEQCC                                      I         1        6                           0         49          6       100.0
HEQMC         3          3       11        2        1        12                          0         110         13        89.7
Highway Engineering Testing     XHGHAB    40            40        86                          0                           0          86        10         0.0
HEQCC         2          2        4                           0                          0      .    4          1         0.0                               i
LiL Details of contents of Training in China, Study Tours, and Training Abroad are included in the IST Report which is part of the Project File.



Training Program (Cont'd)
Training In China       Study & Awareness Tours        Training Abroad                Total
Subject Of Training        Agency      N      P/M      Yuan        N       P/M      US S     N       P/M       USS        YUAN          USS      USS %
('000)                     ('000)                      ('000)                   ('000)            Total
Highway Maintenance Mngmt       XHGHAB   300           450       966                           0                          0         966        118         0.0
H'way Engineering Machienery    XHGHAB   150            150      322                                                                322         39         0.0
XCTWS         1          5        10                          0                           0          10          1        0.0
Computer Application            XHGHAB    60            60       129                           0                          0         129         16         0.0
XCS           3          7        15                          0                           0          15          2        0.0
STC           3          7        15                          0                                      15          2        0.0
Engish Language                 XHGHAB    60           120       258                           0                          0         258         31         0.0
HighwayOperationsManapment   XHGHAB    20               20        76                          0                           0          76          9         0.0
Higlway Maintenance             XCS            2         4        11                           0                          0          11          1         0.0
STC           2          4       11                           0                           0          11          1        0.0
Hway Enginering Supervision     XHGHAB   100            100      100                           0                          0         100         12         0.0
HEQCC         6          6        16                          0        1        1         9          92         11       82.7
XCS           2          2        4                                                                   4          1        0.0
Environmental Protection        XHGHAB    28            28        73                           0                          0          73          9         0.0
Highway Construction &          XCTWS         2          4        11                           0                          0          11          1         0.0
Maintenance Skills
Satellite and Microwave         XTC           4         24        50                           0                          0          50          6         0.0
Communications Skills
Wire Communication              XTC          20          10       21                           0                          0          21          3         0.0
Organization and Administration    XTC                                     3         2        18                          0         148          18      100.0
of Highway Telecommunication
Tota                         u        1Qk 06   292                  25       m2       19         217      549        8.54     104          X                       ;



APPENDIX 3 TO ANNEX 2: TOTAL COST OF COMPONENT
Trainimg          Eauioment           TA. and Other         Total        Percent
Yuan       USS       Yuan       USS       Yuan      USS       Yuan      USS    Foreign
('000)               ('000)              (C000)              ('000)      Currency
Sector Orpaantio.s
High Grade Highway Administration            2,040.7     702.5    3,057.3      200.0      0.0      0.0    12,498.5  1,524.2    59.2
XinjiangConumunications School                  29.7      12.0       56.0               100.0    50.0        694.1     14.6    73.2
Xinjiani Communications Tech. Wrlk. Sch.        21.3       6.0       60.0               100.0    50.0        640.5      78.1    71.7
Shihiezi Trrining Centre                        25.5       6.0      114.0               100.0    50.0        698.7     85.2    65.7
Highway Engineering Quality Control Center      20.1      15.3                                               145.6      17.8    86.2
Highway Engincering Quoa MgmLCentr              11.3      12.0                                                110.0     13.4    89.8
Tekconununications Information Centre           71.5      18.1                                               219.6     26.8    67.4
Toal                                    2.22Q.0    Io        1217.3       2000     Q        1500      15,007.7  1,830.2    61.3
Organizational Strengthening                             726.6    3,287.3      200.0                       10,885.6  1,327.5    69.8
Staff Training                               2,220.0      45.4                                              2,592.3    316.1    14.4
Technical Asistance                                                                     300.0    150.0      1,530.0    186.6    80.4
Iol                                     2.22Q       77       3.287.3      20       30       150.0    15Q07.   1832         i



-81-                      ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAM
1.    The accident situation in Xinjiang (as in other provinces in China) is serious. A
total of 4,490 accidents was reported in 1994, which is not high, but this may reflect a
low degree of reporting of accidents, especially in rural areas. However, the number
killed (1,712) and injured (2,884) is high, and the rate of 76 killed per 10,000 motor
vehicles is high and is about 25 times higher than that for Western European and North
American countries. Also, the severity rate (37 percent), defined as the number killed
divided by the total number killed and injured is also high.
2.    Due to this situation, the Bank is financing the road safety improvement program
under XHP 1. Hence, a variety of programs and activities related to highway safety have
been taking place. However, these programs and activities have been undertaken
independently and without proper coordination between XCD and the Public Security
Bureau (Traffic Police).  The most serious deficiency is the lack of a long-term
comprehensive planning in the field of highway safety. A major objective of the
proposed highway safety component under XHP2 would therefore, be strengthening of
the capacity for policy-making and planning among the relevant agencies. In this regard,
the development of regular highway safety planning and coordination, which would be a
prerequisite for the efficient comprehensive highway safety program, should be started
first. The pilot work on black spots improvement, which was proposed under XHPI
should be continued. This kind of work has proven that it would be one of the most
efficient activities in relation to highway safety. Also, the intensive training or accident
statistics would greatly contribute to the development of capacity of analyzing the
relationship between accidents and accident contributing factors.
Present Situation
3.   It was observed that the existing accident data collection system is adequate for
the time being, even though there is room for improvement, especially the development
of software for further analyses. The present system was improved a few years ago and is
used in all provinces in China, and hence it is not subject to local modifications.
Highway Safety Policy and Planning
4.    A Leading Group for Highway Safety Planning. It was agreed to establish a
Leading Group for highway safety coordination, policy-making and planning. The
Leading Group will be chaired by a Vice Governor or by another representative from the
Government Office, and it will have two high-rank representatives from each of XCD and
PSB. The main functions of the Leading Group will be to monitor the accident situation
and to propose strategies and policies as well as comprehensive highway safety plans to
XAR. Such plans should include all aspects of highway safety work, also those parts that



- 82 -                     ANNEX3
are outside the responsibility of XCD and PSB. The analyses of the situation should be
done on a yearly basis. Short-term action plans should also be developed on a yearly
basis and objectives and longer-term plans should equally be revised at regular intervals.
The Leading Group will be a permanent group, and its activities will go on after the
termination of the project. The Leading Group will act as a Board for the Highway
Safety Secretariat (see below). The Leading Group shall be established by the end of
1996. The first tentative policy and action plan shall be presented by the end of 1997.
5.    A Highway Safety Secretariat. It was agreed to establish a Highway Safety
Secretariat (HSS) in order to prepare the work for the Leading Group. It is suggested that
the HSS be staffed by two specially qualified persons from each of XCD and PSB.
6.    The main tasks of HSS will be to carry out analyses of the traffic accident
situation, and on the basis of such analyses it will prepare highway safety objectives,
strategies and short- and long-term highway safety plans. These objectives, strategies and
plans will be presented to the Leading Group for discussion. When adopted by the
Leading Group, they will be presented to XAR for approval. HSS will monitor the
highway safety work and situation and suggest new actions to be taken and studies to be
undertaken. HSS will also act as a resource group for the authorities. In carrying out
their duties, HSS should have the possibility to be professional assistance from the staff
in XCD and PSB when needed. In addition, HSS will act as a coordinating group for the
Highway Safety component of XHP2 during the project period.
7.    HSS shall be established by March 1997. Shortly after its creation, the four
members of HSS will be offered a four-week study tour abroad. The tour will include
meetings with key personnel from institutions in a highly motorized country. They
would meet people from Central Government and Roads Department, as well as the
services that carry out practical highway safety work. Traffic police should be visited as
well as research institutions and private organizations working with highway safety
matters.  It will focus on the elaboration of highway safety objectives and the
development of highway safety policies and plans, and also on the necessity to undertake
regular highway safety development work and research. The first regional policy on
highway safety will be developed during 1997, and the first tentative highway safety plan
will be presented to the Leading Group by the end of 1997.
Safety Audit Procedures
8.    Safety audit procedures would be developed by HSS during the project period.
The development work in Xinjiang could be inspired by the safety audit work to be
carried out under the Bank-financed projects in Zhejiang, Shaanxi and Henan.
Subsequent to the establishment of such audit procedures, these would be applied to all
major roads projects in the region.



- 83 -                     ANNEX3
Black Spot Work
9.    The black spot improvement work was initiated under XHPI. The bulk of the
improvement work would, however, be covered under XHP2. The black spot work
would follow the following process: (a) identification of black spots; (b) analyses of
accident files and accident sites; (c) planning of improvements; (d) implementation; and
(e) monitoring.
10.   It was recommended that XIC would carry out the pilot black spot work as an
experiment with control site, so that it is possible to demonstrate the efficiency of the
black spot work. This could be done as follows:
(a)   XIC or TP identifies some 20 black spots.
(b)   From 20 black spots identified, 10 would be selected at random to
constitute the experiment sites, and the remaining 10 as the control sites.
(c)   Ten black spots identified as the experiment sites would be analyzed and
improved, whereas no measures would be taken at the control sites.
(d)   The effect of the black spot work would be measured through before and
after studies on accidents and road user behavior at both the experiment
sites and the control sites.
Once the pilot black spot work was completed, the regular black spot work would be
transferred to XCD to be continued on a regular basis.
Traffic Signs and Markings
11.   Due to the poor maintenance of road signs and markings in the past, the situation
is far below the acceptable standard. Recently, the responsibility for road signs and
markings was transferred from PSB to XCD. About Y 8.7 million would be allocated to
the road signs and markings component. Taking an average cost of approximately
Y 150,000 for resigning and remarking per 1 kilometer of Class II road, about 60 km of
Class II roads would be included in the proposed program.
First Aid Training
12.   The first people who arrive at the scene of an accident will be other drivers and/or
the police. The problem is, however, that none of these people have any training in first
aid techniques, and in many cases that may lead to more harm than help. It was agreed
that the first aid training be introduced into the curriculum for driver training for all
categories of drivers. It was further agreed to introduce first aid training into the
curriculum for the basic training of traffic police, as well as into the curriculum for the
courses to be organized by the new Traffic Police Training Center.



-84 -                     ANNEX3
Training in Child Psychology
13.   The police are responsible for training of children at school. In Urumqi, 12 police
officers are involved in this activity, and in the whole region, about 100 officers. None of
these have, however, taken any training related to the training of children. It was agreed
that a one-week course/seminar would be offered to two groups of police officers who are
involved in this activity (one Chinese-speaking and one Uygur-speaking). The seminar
would cover child psychology and the child's capability to learn about, and to cope with
traffic at different ages. A three-week consultancy will be required, including preparation
and seminar.
Other Training Components
14.   A certain amount of training would be offered to various types of personnel from
XCD and PSB. The proposed training components are detailed in the project file.
Equipment
15.   For the implementation of the highway safety component, as well as for the safe
management of the highway, certain equipment would be procured.
Evaluation of the Highway Safety Component
16.   The objective of the highway safety component is to initiate activities that would
lead to improved highway safety in a longer perspective. It was agreed that by the end of
the project, a Chinese consultant would carry out an evaluation of the highway safety
component. His services would require 1.5 person-months. During this period, the
consultant would review the highway safety component of XHP2 as well as the road
safety component of XHPl and prepare a written report on his findings for HSS.
Costs
17.   The cost estimates for each category are as follows:
(a)   Black Spot Work. Costs for black spot improvements as well as for the
monitoring and evaluation of black spot work: Y 20 million;
(b)   Traffic Signs and Markings. Costs of resigning and remarking of about
60 km of Class II highway: Y 8.7 million;
(c)   Consultancy for Child Psychology. Costs for one local expert including
travel costs: Y 12,000;
(d)   Training. The estimated cost of this component for 104 person/months:
Y 1.4 million;



- 85 -                    ANNEX3
(e)   Equipment.  The estimated total cost for 8 items of equipment:
Y 2.4 million;
(f)   Evaluation of the Highway Safety Component. Costs for one local
expert including travel costs: Y 31,000; and
(g)   Total cost of the Highway Safety Component. The estimated total cost
of the highway safety component would be: Y 32.6 million or $4.0
million.
The detailed breakdown of each cost item is included in the project file.
Implementation Schedule
18.   The proposed highway safety component would be implemented over the four-
year period starting 1997.



- 86-                     ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR STRATEGIC STUDY OF REGIONAL TRANSPORT
WITHIN XINJIANG PROVINCE AND BETWEEN XINJIANG
AND NEIGHBORING PROVINCES AND COUNTRIES
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Xinjiang borders eight other countries, Mongolia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgystan,
Tajikstan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India and is the gateway of China in the west to
central Asia and eastern Europe. The total length of the foreign border is 5,391 km. It
also borders some other Chinese provinces or regions, Tibet, Qinghai and Gansu
2.    Since the founding of this autonomous region, especially since the reform and
open, transportation has seen a rapid development, forming an initial and integrated
transport system incorporating rail, air, pipeline in Xinjiang. By the end of 1994, there
were 28,600 km of road, 1,800 km of railway, 12 airports and 223,600 motor vehicles, in
which 137,200 are for freight and 86,400 for passenger and others.
3.    The vast distance between Xinjiang and the main consuming market in other
provinces of China features transport of Xinjiang while creating the most unfavorable
condition for the transport of Xinjiang.  The rail distance between Urunqi to
Lianyungang, the nearest port to Xinjiang is more than 3,760 km and to the nearest
provincial capital, Lanzhou in Gansu, is 1,900 km. The average trip length of goods
transported to and from Urumqi were 2,350 km and 3,300 km respectively. These
distances increase to 4,000 km to 5,000 km when the additional trip length within
Xinjiang is added to the distances from Urumqi. The vast transport distance greatly
increases the transport cost and hinders the development of regional economy and
exploitation of the rich reserves. Therefore, more transport links between Xinjiang and
the rest of China should be provided to increase transport capacity, reduce transport cost
and heighten transport efficiency. Moreover, efforts should be made in technical
promotion, rational modal split and optimization of transport structure and management.
4.    Xinjiang and its neighboring countries have many cultural elements in common
while their economies show considerable complimentarity. With China's priority of
economy development given to the west regions, passenger and freight transport between
Xinjiang and its neighboring countries will see a dramatic growth. At present, apart from
Beijing railroad, there are 13 direct road connections between Xinjiang and its
neighboring countries with total input and export of 4.3 million tons and 1I.1 million
passengers in 1994.



- 87-                      ANNEX4
5.    Recently, the central government listed the narrowing of the gap between the East
and Central-western regions of the country as a major priority in its Ninth Five-Year Plan
(1996-2000) and a long-term  goal for the year 2010.  Priority will be given to
improvement of transport infrastructure which is considered as a fundamental way to
achieve the goal. Therefore, to carry out , e study in question is very essential and in
good time which is of far-reaching influence not only to the regional economy but also to
the national economy in the next century.
B. STUDY OBJECTIVES AND PROCEDURES
6.    The objectives of the study are: to provide scientific basis for the governments
at all levels of Xinjiang in working out the medium- and long-term transport planning and
formulating transport policies and regulations. The study is to be conducted regarding
the following:
(a)   to review the present transport infrastructure and services within Xinjiang
and between Xinjiang and the rest of China and adjoining countries, to
sum up achievements and experience gained in the recent years;
(b)   to analyze the regional social economic development and predict future
transport demand; and
(c)   to recommend construction options which can satisfy the social economic
development and users' needs, to justify some comparable alternatives of
transport corridors, to recommend priorities for investment and for
transport policy and regulations favorable to transport development.
7.    In consideration of coordination of the regional medium- and long-term planning
with that of the nation and the need of having a lead study for transport facilities, this
study is projected for 15 years (1996-2010), taking the Ninth Five-Year Plan period
(1996-2000) as a key period. For some key transport projects, it can be extended to the
year 2020 when necessary.
C. SCOPE OF WORK
8.    Part I: To identify existing transport infrastructure and services which serve both
passenger and freight transport within Xinjiang and between Xinjiang and its neighboring
countries and provinces which include the following:
(a)   identification of all existing transport infrastructure (rail, road, air and
pipeline), terminal and storage facilities (including physical characteristics
and condition, inventory, capacity and location);
(b)   fleet for each mode (including inventory by type, utilization, physical
condition, maintenance, and replacement cost);



- 88-                        ANNEX 4
(c)   identification   of  ownership  of  transport  vehicles  (including
enterprise/institution, state transport enterprises, private and individual
owned vehicles) and share of total traffic;
(d)   identification of transport manufactures and maintenance industries;
(e)   review of institutional regulation system;
(f)   identification of transport prices and transport cost by mode and by type of
vehicle; and
(g)   review of transport investments made for each by year and the way of
raising funds for investment.
9.    Part II: To review and analyze the present of socioeconomic conditions and its
future development and predict future transport demand.
(a)    quantification of various reserves and identification of distribution;
(b)   collection of socioeconomic data by year (including population, GNP,
industrial structure, output value, output and distribution of main
products);
(c)    collection of data of social economic development for the next 15 years
(including population, industrial structure, output value, output and
distribution of the main products);
(d)   collection of historical data of passenger/freight transport by year and the
projections for the next 15 years;
(e)    collection of historical data by year of O-D volume for some main
commodities projections for the next 15 years;
(f)    collection of historical data by year of transport volume between Xinjiang
and its neighboring provinces and countries (by import and export) and
projections for the next 15 years; and
(g)   data collection on the existing and its neighboring provinces and countries.
10.   Part III: To make recommendations for the policies and development of this
sector.
(a)    proposals for the policies and basic thinking under which the transport
infrastructure and service are planned and provided;
(b)    assessment of adequacy of proposed transport infrastructure to satisfy the
projected demand (for 2000, 2005 and 2010) and construction priorities;



- 89-                      ANNEX 4
(c)   analysis and justification of proposed key transport projects;
(d)   proposals for increasing transport efficiency and lowering transport cost;
(e)   analyses of proposed investments in transport projects and investment
priority. Financial evaluation for source and uses of funds to finance
transport infrastructure investment;
(f)   proposals for improvement of transport institutional regulatory system;
and
(g)   a review of the conditions necessary for the greater use of containers for
the transport of products between Xinjiang and the rest of the China and
neighboring countries.
D. STUDY METHODOLOGY AND PROCEDURES
11.   The above three parts of the work should be considered as a whole. The first two
parts will be undertaken step-by-step or concurrently, while the third, which depends on
the results of the first two, will be completed some time later.
12.   Efforts should be made to get support and assistance from SPC, MOR, and MOC,
and maximum use should be made of the existing data sources and infornation available
from all regional and national agencies who have made a great deal of work in this sector.
During the study, all new information cropped up should be considered so as to make the
study deep and expansive. All the recommendations of the study should be practical fully
considering advice of the regional government, being based on facts and experiencing
scientific justification.
13.   This study will put stress on the transport planning within Xinjiang. Assessments
of future demands for transport infrastructure should be based on minimizing the costs of
transport and providing the most efficient service to users. While working out the plan
efforts should also be made for focusing on integrated development, entire distribution
and measures so as to avoid possible limitations from a sectorial planning. The study
team should make the best use of time so as to keep working schedule and ensure study
quality.
14.   It is intended to introduce TGIS to make the qualitative analysis having scientific
basis and provide ocular study results. Data analysis and presentation of quantitative
relations will be done by means of GIS, cartogram and data bank two-dimensional
tabulations. The general function will be designed when the above-mentioned scope of
work is approved.
15.   To ensure a promising result of the study, it is intended to invite experienced
exports from the region as the senior advisors to the study.



- 90-                       ANNEX 4
16.   The study report should be provided to the team of advisors (who have intimate
knowledge of the transportation in China and international transport development) and to
the World Bank for comment. At the conclusion of the study a seminar will be arranged
with participation from relevant central and provincial government agencies to discuss
and assess its recommendations.
E. ORGANIZATION OF STUDY
17.   The Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau (XHGHAB) will take
the leadership of the study, while the SPC's Comprehensive Transport Research Institute,
in cooperation with the Planning Division of XCD and the Regional Institution of
Economics will carry out this study.
18.   Organization Chart:
Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau
Senior Advisor      Team Leader      Team of International
Advisors
Study Team
Economists     Rail & Pipeline Expertsi  Road Experts      Air Experts
F. WORKING SCHEDULE
19.   This study will take one year from commencement to delivery of the final report,
deadline set for delivery of reports are as follows:
(a)   report of Part I will be delivered  8 months after the official
commencement;
(b)   that of Part II will be delivered  10 months after the official
commencement; and
(c)   the final report will be delivered 12 months of the official commencement.



-91-                      ANNEX4
G. BUDGETS
20.   The estimated total cost for this study is Y 2.5 million with the following
breakdown:
(a)   Staff costs
(one international advisor and local experts):  Y 1.82 million;
(b)   Travel Costs:                               Y 0.28 million;
(c)   Subsistence allowance:                      Y 0.19 million;
(d)   Other costs (office, interpreter, printing):  Y 0.10 million;
(e)   Contingency                                 Y 0.1 1 million
TOTAL                                      Y 2.50 million



-92-                       ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ACTION
PLAN SUMMARY
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of Urumqi-Kuitun Highway (UKH) and
its linking roads were carried out by the Research Academy of Environmental Science.
An EIA report, an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and an Environmental Assessment
(EA) Summary were submitted to the Bank in April 1995 and reviewed by the Bank
during the identification mission in April 1995. Based on the comments by the Bank, the
revised EIA report, EAP and EA Summary were submitted to the Bank in June 1995 and
commented by the Bank in July 1995. Further revised EIA-related documents were
submitted to the Bank in September 1995 for final review.
2.    The process of environmental review involved inputs from various units in the
region, including environmental protection bureaus, research institutions and universities.
The affected groups and NGOs along the highways, and the people subject to
resettlement and land acquisition in particular, have been intensively consulted.
3.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of
development projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the
EIA, as well as the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. Major laws and
regulations applied to the EIA for the Second Xinjiang Highway Project are presented
below. The major environmental standards applied in the EIA are detailed in the project
file.
(a)   Environmental Protection Law of Peoples' Republic of China (PRC);
(b)   Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(c)   Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
(d)   Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e)   Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC;
(f)    Land Management Law of PRC;
(g)   Grassland Law of PRC;
(h)   Forest Law of PRC;



- 93 -                     ANNEX5
(i)    Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Project, Number 003 (86), issued by the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA); and
(j)    Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Transport
Construction Projects, Number 17 (90), issued by Ministry of
Communications (MOC).
4.    The scope of and the criteria for the EIA are presented below.
(a)   The investigations for eco-environmental setting including wildlife,
cultural relics and air pollution sources cover 1,000 m from both sides of
the proposed roads.  Scope of the predictions for noise, atmospheric
environmental impacts and cultural relics covers areas within 200 m from
both sides of the roads.
(b)   The following standards are applied as the criteria for the EIA:
(i)    Air pollution: Class 2 air quality standards (GB 3095-82);
(ii)    Noise: Class 4 standards (70 dB(A) in daytime and 55 dB(A) at
night: GB 3096-93) in general and Class 2 noise standards [60
dB(A) in daytime and 50 dB(A) at night] for areas with schools
and hospitals.
(c)   Considering the project features and construction cycle, the prediction was
made for the years of 2000, 2010 and 2020.
B. BRIEF PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5.    The scope of the Second Xinjiang Highway Project is discussed in para. 3.7.
C. BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION
6.    Geology and Topography. The proposed alignment of UKH is located in the
north slope of Tianshan Mountains and on the southern fringe of Junggur Basin. Its
terrain is high in south and low in north. There is Gurbabtunggut desert to the north of
UKH. There are two major land forms along the highway-the low mountains and hilly
areas (Urabo-Diwopu) and flooding and alluvial plain in Junggar Basin (Diwopu-Kuitun).
The area that UKH traverses is in Tianshan Mountains seismic belt of Xinjiang Middle
Part Seismic Region. According to the Earthquake Intensity Map of Xinjiang in 1986
and the Earthquake Intensity Division Map of China in 1990, the basic seismic intensity
is 7 degrees in Urabo-Diwopu Section, 6 degrees in Diwopu-Jingou River, and 7 from
Jingou River to the western border of Shawan County. From the western border of
Shawan County to Kuitun, 8 degrees to the south of UKH and 7 degrees to the north.



- 94 -                    ANNEX5
7.    Climate and Hydrology. The project area belongs to the continental arid climate
zone, with hot summers, long and cold winters, large temperature range in the year. The
mean annual temperatures is approximately 7C. Extremely maximum temperature is
approximately 40C, and extremely minimum is approximately -40C. The mean annual
precipitation  is 160-200 mm, and maximum  daily precipitation  is 20-27 mm.
Precipitation in April through July is more than 50 percent of annual precipitation. The
prevailing wind direction is southwest and the maximum wind velocity is over 20 m/s.
The rivers traversed by UKH are 11, which belong to continental rivers. These are
seasonal rivers whose sources are glacier, melted snow and precipitation in mountain
areas. About 65 to 72 percent of annual runoff volume flows between June and August.
8.    Socioeconomic Situation. The project area is located on the economic belt of the
northern slope of Tianshan Mountains whose hub is Urumqi City. Its area includes
125,800 km  or 7.6 percent of whole Xinjiang. The total population was about 3.9
million in 1995 and population density is 31 persons/km2. The total industrial production
of the area was approximately Y 18 billion in 1993, which was 58 percent of whole
Xinjiang.
9.    Agriculture. The project area has been an important base of grain, cotton, sugar
and vegetable oil products in Xinjiang. Arable land was 5.8 million mu (390,000 ha) in
1993, about 50 percent for grain crops (mainly wheat) and 30 percent for cash crops
(mainly cotton, corn and bean). Irrigation area is about 466,000 ha, for which irrigation
channels have been well developed along UKH. Animal husbandry has also been well
developed. Natural grazing land is mainly located between the Anjihai and Kuitun
Section. Main domestic animals are sheep, goats and pigs.
10.   Ecological Setting. Main zonal vegetation is xeric shrubs and hemi-shrubs,
which constitutes drought desert pasture. Quality of pasture is medium and partly low,
and the yield is generally low. There is no natural forests along UKH. Two artificial
forests have been developed in the project area: Manasi Tree Farm (6,000 ha) and
Ganhezi Tree Farm, which are located to the north of UKH. A few trees such as Ulmus
alevis and Fraxinus sodgiana are scattered along the proposed alignment of UKH.
11.   The project belongs to Wusu and Qitai Desert Unit, which is the reclamation area
of the northern foot of Tianshan Mountains. Insecta and arthropoda are dominant in the
area. The common animal species are Bufo species of Amphibian, Eremia velox and
phrynocephalus species of Reptilia, which are widely distributed in desert belt of the
northern Xinjiang. There are no precious or endangered species along the proposed
alignment of UKH.
12.   Air Quality. Baseline air quality monitoring was carried out at nine sites in
March and July/August 1993. The air quality standards on NO, and TSP exceeded at
only one site, Xishan, which is in the boundary of the city limit. At all other sites, the
monitoring levels were well below the standards and considered fairly good.



- 95 -                    ANNEX5
13.   Noise. Baseline noise monitoring was carried out at 19 noise sensitive sites in
July 1993. The monitoring results suggest that at all sites the noise level (Leq) in both
daytime and at night is below the noise standards, which are adopted as assessment
criteria, and at most sites the noise level is fairly low, less than 50 dB(A) in daytime and
40 dB(A) at night. The major noise source is traffic.
D. POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND THEIR MITIGATION MEASURES
14.   Major potential impacts and their mitigation measures regarding UKH and its
linking roads are summarized below and incorporated in the Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) of UKH and its linking roads. The EAP stipulates how the environmental impacts
identified in the EIA will be dealt with in the design, construction and operation phases,
and what institutional arrangements have been made for the implementation of the EAP
during the three distinct phases. The key elements of the EAP are summarized as
Appendix I of this Annex.
Design Phase
15.   Alternative Alignments. Two alternatives were considered in each of Urumqi
Transit Section, Xishan-Wugontai Section and Shihezi Section. For Urumqi Transit
Section, a new transit road starting from Urabo, and upgrading of the existing road were
considered. Consequently, the new road was selected because of less disturbance of city
traffic and has less resettlement and environmental pollution in the city. For Xishan-
Wugontai Section, northern and southern alternatives were considered and the southern
route was adopted because of less resettlement, less environmentally sensitive areas and
better geological conditions. For Shihezi Section, southern and northern routes were
considered and the southern route was selected because of much less farmland
occupation, less resettlement, less dust and noise impacts in Shihezi City, and better
geological conditions.
16.   Social Disruption. In order to minimize problems of community separation and
isolation due to the project construction, 32 grade separations and 166 underpasses would
be provided.
17.   Soil Erosion. Soil erosion will mainly take place in low mountains and hilly
areas. High embankment slopes will be stabilized with turf. Planting of trees and grass
in the median divider and along the roadside was included in the design where
appropriate. Temporary and permanent drainage systems were designed to minimize soil
erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes.
18.   Transmigration of Livestock. Based on field surveys, the Anjihai-Kuitun
Section (54 km) was identified to be a main area where transmigration of livestock
frequently happens in spring and autumn. For this section, 3 medium bridges, 14 small
bridges and 32 underpasses with sufficient height and width for livestock were designed
to avoid impacts on their transmigration. In addition, some culverts will also be used for
transmigration of livestock.



- 96 -                      ANNEX5
19.   Noise. Most of the villages within 200 m from the roadsides are small and
sparsely populated. Altogether 19 environmentally sensitive sites were identified for
special attention. According to the traffic noise prediction during the operation phase
(2000, 2010 and 2020), the noise level at 12 sites will significantly exceed the assessment
criteria. To avoid such noise problems, the following measures have been identified and
integrated into the designs, considering predicted noise levels and local situations.
(a)   By 2000, resettlement of residences to avoid significant noise problems
(Changfeng Sidui, Yuanhucum Shang);
(b)   By 2010, approximately 5,860 m of heightened fences besides residences
and schools (5 sites), and resettlement at one site; and
(c)   By 2020, 300 m of noise barrier (142 Brickyard), additional 765 m of
heightened fences besides residences and schools (3 sites), and
resettlement at 2 sites.
(d)   The construction of new residential buildings will be prohibited within
200 m from the roadsides. The residences within 200 m from the roadside
will be gradually relocated.
20.   Air Pollution. NOX, CO and hydrocarbons (HC) concentrations in 2000, 2010
and 2020 were predicted along the proposed alignment and environmentally sensitive
sites. While CO and HC concentrations will be below the standards in all predicted
years, NO. concentrations besides the road will exceed the standards. Daily average NO.
concentrations will exceed the standard at one section in 2000, 10 sections in 2010 and 14
sections in 2020. The probability to exceed the standard is, however, only 9 percent
throughout a year. Maximum NOx concentrations will exceed the standard in 5 sections
in 2000, 14 sections in 2010, and 17 sections in 2020. However, NOX concentrations will
exceed the standards at no environmentally sensitive sites in 2000 and 2010, and at only 2
sites (Sanpin Liudui and Yuanhucun) in 2020. To avoid air pollution problems, the
following measures will be taken:
(a)   Tree planting will be undertaken, to mitigate air pollution particularly dust
and NOx.
(b)   Vehicle emission inspection will be strengthened.  XCD  will also
undertake random vehicle emission inspection at three toll stations
(Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun) not to allow the vehicles exceeding the
emission standards traveling on the Expressway.
(c)   Air quality monitoring will be carried out during the operation phase to
detect any significant air pollution problems and to take necessary
measures.



- 97 -                     ANNEX5
(d)   Besides the above effort by XCD and other relevant authorities in
Xinjiang, it is expected that the vehicle emission standards will be
strengthened and more stringent emission standards will be applied to new
vehicles in the future, which is not taken into account in the EIA.
21.   Water Pollution. Impacts on surface water are mainly anticipated in Toutonghe-
Shihezi Section and Shihezi-Anjihai Section.  Adequate permanent and temporary
drainage systems were incorporated in the designs to minimize surface water pollution
and disturbance to irrigation channels and existing drainage systems.  Wastewater
treatment facilities were included in the design of service areas in order to prevent direct
discharge of waste water to public water bodies.
22.   Cultural Relics. An archaeological field survey was carried out in March/April
1995 by Xinjiang Cultural Relics and Archeological Institute. The survey revealed that
most remains are located more than 1,000 m away from the proposed alignment of UKH.
Only an unclassified archaeological site at Cangfanggou in Dawan Xiang (K7 + 750:
between Urabo and Xishan Sections) may be affected by construction activities.
Excavation of the site, therefore, was conducted and it was found that no cultural remains
exist underground within the working area of construction activities.
23.   Flooding. All bridges, culverts and roadside drainage systems were adequately
designed to meet requirements for safe discharge of floods (300-year design floods for
super-large bridges and 1 00-year floods design for other bridges and culverts).
24.   Landscape. Afforestation will be undertaken to improve landscape at median
dividers, slopes and ditches as well as beyond the right-of-way. Also landscaping and
other aesthetic effects were considered during the design of bridges, service areas and
interchanges.
Construction Phase
25.   Fugitive Dust and Other Air Pollution. Quarries, material borrow sites, waste
disposal sites and transportation routes to construction sites were identified as the major
areas that create dust and other air pollution. Road surfaces, excavation areas and
construction sites will be sprayed with water and kept moist particularly near towns and
other sensitive locations. Access roads will be upgraded, widened and paved where
necessary, and sprayed regularly to minimize fugitive dust. Stockpiles and storage areas
will be either covered or sprayed. Construction materials will be covered during hauling
to prevent undue dust or debris on roads. Asphalt and lime stone mixing equipment will
be equipped with dust collectors and will be located at least 500 m from residential areas
on the leeside of the wind directions.
26.   Noise. Construction machinery and trucks will be equipped with proper noise
control devices and will be properly operated and maintained. Construction activities
will be suspended between 11:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. within 200 m from residential areas.
Transportation of construction materials will be undertaken with careful consideration to



- 98 -                       ANNEX5
minimizing noise impacts on residents along the roadside.  Traffic management,
including dissemination of traffic rules and setting up of speed limits will be
strengthened.
27.   Protection of Land Resources. Forests will not be used for material borrow
sites. Arable land will be avoided as material borrow sites where possible. If excavation
has to be done in arable land, top soil layer will be saved and returned after construction
works is completed to minimize impacts on ecosystems and agriculture. Education of
construction workers will be strengthened to protect natural resources, wild plants and
animals.
28.   Soil Erosion and Water Pollution.  Trees and grass will be planted on side
slopes, and along the roadside, where appropriate.  Appropriate measures, either
rehabilitation or reconstruction, will be taken if the existing irrigation or drainage systems
are damaged. All necessary measures will be taken to prevent earth and stones from
silting up rivers, water channels or existing irrigation and drainage systems. Temporary
channel or conduit will be constructed for irrigation and drainage, during the construction
of permanent drainage systems. All reasonable measures will be taken to prevent direct
discharge of polluted water from construction activities into rivers and irrigation
channels.
29.   Construction Camps. Septic tanks will be installed at construction camp sites to
prevent direct discharge of sanitary sewage to public water bodies. Sludge in sewer
treatment pits will be disposed of regularly. Garbage will be collected in garbage cans at
fixed locations and disposed of regularly. Drinking water at construction sites will meet
China's national drinking water standards.
30.   Cultural Relics. Construction works will be stopped immediately if any cultural
relics are discovered as a result of road construction or excavation activities. The local
cultural relics authorities will be informed and a field survey of the site will be
undertaken. Excavation will not be resumed until authorized institutions identify the
importance and necessary preservation measures.
31.   Traffic Management. Adequate traffic control measures, including installation
of traffic signals, will be implemented particularly in interchange sections and main
control points to prevent or minimize traffic jams during the construction period. A
construction material transportation plan will be developed to avoid hauling activities
during peak hours especially on existing roads.
32.   Construction Safety. In order to guarantee construction safety, efficient lighting
equipment and safety signs will be installed on temporary roads during the construction,
and adequate traffic regulations will be adopted and implemented for temporary roads.
During construction, the contractors will adopt effective safety and warning measures to
avoid accidents, stipulate blasting time, signals and guarding line, and carefully check
before blasting. Management and use of blasting materials will strictly follow safety
requirements of the Public Safety Department.



- 99 -                     ANNEX5
Operation Phase
33.   Noise and Air Pollution. Unnecessary use of horns will be strictly restricted at
night. Noise barriers or other appropriate noise protection measures will be taken at
locations where noise exceeds standards significantly, based on the monitoring results.
34.   Vehicle Management.  Better vehicle maintenance and management will be
enhanced to keep vehicles in good conditions. Vehicle noise and emission inspection
will be strengthened and vehicles which do not meet noise and exhaust emission
standards will not be allowed to use UKH and other roads in the region. Random vehicle
emission inspections will be undertaken at the Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun toll stations.
Public awareness campaigns and education will be undertaken to farniliarize people with
air and noise pollution regulations. In order to avoid future noise and air pollution
problems, development of residential areas and construction of sensitive buildings such
as schools and hospitals will be prohibited within 200 m from the roadside.
35.   Risk of Hazardous Material Spill. Any vehicle transporting hazardous materials
will inform the Public Security Bureau (PSB) prior to the transportation. PSB stipulates
time and route of driving vehicles and parking places. The vehicle needs to have
dangerous signs and the driver needs to be well experienced. Both of them will be
inspected. Passengers cannot ride the vehicle transporting hazardous materials. Signs
will be set up at environmentally sensitive sites to alert the drivers for traffic safety.
Traffic peak hours will be avoided for transportation of hazardous materials.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
36.   During the construction and operation of UKH  and its linking roads,
environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the
environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an early stage, and adjust
environmental protection measures as appropriate.  The Xinjiang Environmental
Monitoring Center will mainly carry out necessary environmental monitoring during the
construction and operation phases. However, noise and dust will be monitored by the
environmental supervisors at each of the construction contract sections. An annual
monitoring report would be furnished to the Bank during the construction phase and for
each of the first three years following completion of construction.
37.   The major items to be monitored during the construction phase will include air
quality, noise, lead in soil, crops and herbage and transmigration of livestock. In addition
to the above items, vehicle exhaust will be inspected during the operation phase. Water
quality will not be monitored because the rivers in the project area are seasonal, and the
construction activities besides the rivers will be carried out in dry seasons, and therefore
will not have impacts on river water quality. The detailed monitoring plan is presented
below.
38.   Air Quality.  Items to be monitored will include dust (by environmental
supervisors) and total suspended particulates (TSP) during the construction phase and



-100 -                     ANNEX5
nitrogen oxides (NOJ), CO, TSP and hydrocarbons (HC) during the operation phase.
During the construction phase, TSP will be monitored four times a year for five
consecutive days each time and fugitive dust every 10 days. Monitoring sites will be
construction sites, quarries and material borrow sites, and major roads used for hauling
construction materials. During the operation phase, NO,, CO, TSP and HC will be
monitored three times a year, each time for three consecutive days and four times a day at
five monitoring sites along UKH (Urumqi, Wugongtai, Shihezi, Shawan and Kuitun).
39.   Noise. During the construction phase, noise monitoring will be carried out by
environmental supervisors in each contract section in daytime and at night on a weekly
basis at construction sites, quarries, material borrow sites and major construction
materials hauling roads. Ad hoc monitoring will also be undertaken. During the
operation phase, noise monitoring will be carried out four times a year, in daytime and at
night at five sites along UKH. Ad hoc monitoring will also be undertaken.
40.   Lead in Soil, Crops and Herbage. Sampling and analysis will be conducted at
sites 0 m, 50 m, 100 m and 200 m away from the roadsides in Urumqi, Shihezi and
Kuitun once in two years during the construction and operation phases.  Baseline
monitoring will also be carried out before construction works start.
41.   Transmigration of Livestock. The environmental expert being familiar with
animal husbandry will make observation twice a year to check whether transmigration of
livestock is affected by the project in the Anjihai-Kuitun Section.
42.   Vehicle Exhaust and Noise Inspection. Vehicle exhaust gasses (CO and HC in
gasoline-powered vehicles, and smoke density in diesel-powered vehicles) will be
randomly inspected at Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun toll stations during the operation
phase.
F. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
43.   The following institutional arrangements for environmental protection will be
undertaken for UKH:
(a)   One Deputy Chief Supervision Engineer in the Chief Supervision
Engineer Representative Office, who will be responsible for
environmental issues related to XHP2.
(b)   Under the Chief Supervision Engineer Representative Office in the
Headquarters, an Environmental Supervision Unit (ESU), comprising one
senior environmental officer and one environmental expert, will be
responsible for environmental supervision of the project.
(c)   At each of the three senior resident supervision offices, one well trained
environmental staff will be assigned to supervise the implementation of



-101-                      ANNEX5
environmental protection measures addressed in the EAP and guide
environmental supervisors at contract sections.
(d)   At each contract section, one environmental supervisor will be assigned to
carry out the environmental supervision of the construction activities to
ensure that all environmental protection measures stated in the contract
documents will be carried out.
(e)   XCD will entrust to the Xinjiang Environmental Monitoring Center the
necessary environmental monitoring of the project both during construction
and operation periods.
(f)   For the operation period, an Environmental Unit with two to three staff
will be set up in XHGHAB. One to two environmental staff will be
assigned for each of the Northern Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun Offices.
44.   The following environmental training will be undertaken to provide adequate
training for environmental staff at the Headquarters, senior resident supervisors offices
and at contract sections:
(a)   One environmental expert at ESU and seven environrnental staff at senior
resident supervision offices will take environmental training for about a
month in China;
(b)   Environmental supervisors at contract sections will take environmental
training for about a month in Urumqi on environmental protection
measures during the construction phase, and noise and dust monitoring
methodologies.
45.   The following environmental equipment will be procured under XHP2.
Equpme                                  Number
Sound level detector                       3
Tail gas inspection equipment              1
Computer                                   1
Monitoring vehicle                         I



-102 -                                   ANNEXS
Appendix 1
APPENDIX 1 TO ANNEX 5: KEY ELEMENTS OF THE EAP
FOR THE URUMQI-KUITUN HIGHWAY (UKH)
Environmental Issues       Action Taken/To Be Taken                                                Responsibility
A. Design Phase
1. Route Selection         The alignment was selected from a few alternatives In serveral sections,  XCD/FHSDI
with due consideration to minimize land acquisition, impacts of air
pollution and noise on residential areas, and to avoid unfavorable
geological conditions and archaeological sites.
2. Social Disruption       32 grade grade separations and 166 underpasses were designed to meet    XCD/FHSDI
the requirements for crossing of local people, animals and vehicles. In
particular, 3 medium and 14 small bridges, 32 passageways were
designed in Anjihai-Kuitun Section (54 km) for transmigration of
livestock.
3. Soil Erosion            Planting of trees and grass on median divider, sideslopes, and along the  XCD/FHSDI
roadside, was included in the design where appropriate.
Temporary and permanent drainage systems were designed to minimize      XCD/FHSDI
soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes, including impacts on
irrigation channels.
4. Water Pollution         Waste water treatment facilities were designed for service areas.       XCDIFHSDI
5. Noise                   Adequate measures such as resettlement, noise barriers, fences were
identified and integrated in the design and bid documents.
6. Flooding                Bridges and culverts were adequately sized to meet requirements for     XCD/FHSDI
safe discharge of design flood (300 years for super-large bridges, 100
years for other bridges and culverts).
7. Cultural Relics         Cultural relics survey including field excavation was carried out and no  XCD/FHSDI
important cultural relics were found in the working area of the project.
8. Afforestatlon           Afrorestation plan was developed to reduce sir pollution problems and   XCD/FHSDI
enhance better landscape.
3. Construction Phase
1. Protection of Land      Forests will not be used for material borrow sites. Reforestation will be  Contractors
Resources              undertaken upon completion of construction activities.
Arable land will be avoided as material borrow sites wherever possible.
If excavation has to be done in arable land, top soil layer will be saved
and returned after construction work is completed, so as to minimize
impacts on ecosystem and agriculture.
Education of construction workers will be strengthened to protect
natural resources, wild plants and animals. Poaching will be strictly
prohibited.
2. Soil Erosion/Water      Trees and grasses will be planted on side slope, and along the roadside,  Contractors
Pollution              where appropriate. Appropriate measures, either rehabilitation or
reconstruction, will be taken, if the existing irrigation or drainage systems
are damaged.
All necessary measures will be taken to prevent earth & stones from
silting up rivers, water channels, or existing irrigation and drainage
systems.
Temporary channel or conduit will be constructed for irrigation and
drainage, during the construction of permanent drainage systems.
All reasonable messurers will be taken to prevent direct discharge of
polluted water from construction activities into rivers and irrigation
chsnnels.



-103-                                     ANNEX5
Appendix 1
Environmental Issues       Action Taken/To Be Taken                                                 Responsibility
3. Construction Camps      Septic tanks will be installed at the construction camp sites. Sludge in  Contractors
sewage treatment pits will be disposed of regularly. Drinking water will
meet the Chinese national drinking water standards.
Garbage will be collected In garbage cans at fixed locations and disposed
of regularly.
4. Dust/Air Pollution      All reasonable steps, includeuding watering, will be taken to minimize    Contractors
dust pollution during construction, particularly in places near towns.
Stockpiles and storage areas will be located far away from residential
areas on the lee side of the wind direction. Stockpiles and storage areas
will be covered or watered to prevent dust pollution. Trucks to transport
construction materials will be covered to minimize spills.
Asphalt and lime stone mixing sites will be located at least 500 m from
residential areas on the lee side of the wind direction. Asphalt plants will
be equipped with adequate dust collectors.
5. Transportation          Hauling route of construction materials will be selected in a careful     Contractors
Management              manner to minimize interference with existing communications facilities,
and dust and noise. Construction materials hauling plans will be
developed to avoid hauling activities during the peak traffic hours.
Adequate actions to direct traMic will be taken in consultation with
relevant authorities, to prevent or minimize traffic jams during the
construction period.
In the sections where existing roads are occupied, temporary roads will be
constructed before existing roads are occupied for construction of new
highway.
6. Noise                   Reasonable schedule of construction activities will be developed to avoid  Contractors
noisy construction activities during the night time (23:00 - 9:00),
particularly in such sites within 200 m from residential areas.
Maintenance of machines and trucks will be improved to minimize noise.
7. Cultural Relics         Excavation will be stopped immediately if any cultural relics are found,  Contractors
and the local cultural authority will be informed of such discovery.
Excavation will not be resumed until identification of cultural relics by the
authorized institution is completed and necessary preservation measures
identified.
8. Construction Safety     In order to guarantee safety, efcient lighting equipment and safety signs  Contractors
will be installed on temporary roads during the construction, and
adequate traffic regulations will be adopted and implemented for
temporary roads. Effective safety and warning measures will be taken to
avoid accidents. Blasting time, signals and guarding lines will be
adequately set and careful check will be carried out before blasting.
Management and use of blasting materials will strictly follow safety
requirements.
C. Operation Phase
1. Noise and Air           Unnecessary use of horns will be strictly restricted at night             XHGHAB
Pollution
Noise barriers or other appropriate noise protection measures will be     XHGHAB
taken at locations where noise exceeds standard, based on the results of
monitoring.
2. Vehicle Management    Better vehicle maintenance/management will be enhanced to keep vehicles      XHGHAB
in good conditions. Vehicle noise and emissions inspection will be
strengthened. If a vehicle does not comply with the noise and/or emissions
standards, the vehicle will not pass inspection on roads till the problem is
rectified. Periodical and random exhaust gas emissions inspection will be
undertaken at Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun toll stations.
Public awareness and education will be promoted to familiarize people  XEPB/XHGHAB
with the problems of air pollution and noise from vehicles and with
related regulations.
3. Hazardous Materials    Anybody transporting hazardous materials will inform the Public           PSB/XHGHAB
Spills                  Security Bureau (PSB) prior to the transportation. PSB stipulates time,
route and parking places of driving vehicles. Both vehicles and drivers
will be inspected by PSD. Vehicles will have danger signs. Signs will be
set up at environmentally sensitive sites to alert drivers for traffic safety.
Traffic peak hours will be avoided for transportation of hazardous
materials. Contingency plans will be established to deal with accidents.



-104 -                                   ANNEXS
Appendix 1
Environmental Issues       Action Taken/To Be Taken                                               Responsibility
4. Others                  Construction of permanent buildings including schools and hospitals will  XHGHAB
not be allowed within 200 m from the roadside.
D. Environmental
Monitoring
1. Air Quality             (1)  Construction period:
(a) Monitoring item: TSP and dust
(b) Monitoring frequency: TSP: 4 times a year, consecutive 5 days,
4 times a day
Dust: every 10 days
(c) Monitoring points: construction sites, quarries, material
borrow sites, major hauling roads and asphalt mixing sites
(2) Operation period:
(a) Monitoring items: NOx, CO, HC and TSP
(b) Monitoring frequency: 3 times a year, 3 consecutive days, 4
times a day
(c)  Monitoring points: Urumqi, Wugongtai, Shihezi, Shawan,
Kuitun
(3)  Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Atmosphere Monitoring Standard Methods issued by
National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA)
2. Noise                   (1)  Monitoring frequency:
(a) Construction period: once a week, 2 times a day. Ad hoc
monitoring will be undertaken as appropriate.
(b) Operation period: 4 times a year, 3 consecutive days, once each
in daytime and at night. Ad hoc monitoring will be undertaken.
(2) Monitoring points:
(a) Construction period: same as air quality monitoring
(b) Operation period: same as air quality monitoring
(3) Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Noise Standard Method issued by NEPA
D. Environmental
Monitoring
3. Lead in Soil, Crops     (1)  Monitoring frequency: once before construction activities start, and
and Herbage                 once in two years during construction and operation phases.
(2) Monitoring points: Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun
(3) Monitoring technical criteria:
Present Noise Standard Method issued by NEPA
4. Transmigration of       (I)  Monitoring frequency: twice a year (spring and autumn)
Livestock              (2)  Monitoring points: Anjihai-Kuitun Section
(3) Monitoring methods: Observation by environmental experts with
knowledge on animal husbandry
5. Vehicle Exhaust and     (I)  Inspection items: CO and HC (gasoline-powered vehicles), smoke
Noise Inspection            density (diesel-powered vehicles)
(2) Inspection frequency: random check during the operation phase
(3) Inspection site: Urumqi, Shihezi and Kuitun toll stations



-105 -                     ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
1.    This Annex describes the land acquisition and resettlement impacts associated
with the Second Xinjiang Highways Project (XHP2) and the measures taken by XCD to
address these impacts, as described in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the
project.
Project Components
2.    XHP2 includes the following civil works components:
(a)   The 267 km Urumqi-Kuitun Highway (UKH)
(b)   Interchanges along the UKH
(c)   The four linking roads interconnecting UKH with cities/towns along the
existing highway.
3.    The construction of the UKH, interchanges and linking roads will require land
acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation of affected persons. In order to mitigate
the adverse impacts due to land acquisition and resettlement, XCD had prepared a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The RAP describes the following aspects of land
acquisition and resettlement planning and implementation:
(a)   the scope and extent of project impacts;
(b)   the legal framework and resettlement policies to compensate and resettle/
rehabilitate the affected persons;
(c)   the institutional arrangements for preparation, implementation and
monitoring of the RAP;
(d)   costs and budget for RAP implementation;
(e)   Implementation steps and schedule;
(f)   Participation of affected persons in the resettlement program;
(g)   Mechanisms for redress of grievances;
(h)   Monitoring of RAP implementation.



-106-                      ANNEX6
Project Impacts
4.    The land acquisition and resettlement impacts of the project were surveyed by the
First Highway Survey and Design Institute (FHSDI), with the involvement of local
governments and the affected people along the proposed route. About 17,088 mu
(1,139.26 ha) of land will need to be acquired permanently. About 6,998 mu (466.54 ha)
will be leased temporarily during the construction period for encampment, approach
roads and quarries. Permanent land acquisition will affect 3,706 persons. To minimize
the land acquisition resettlement impacts of land-leasing, it will be restricted to
wastelands to the extent possible. About 265 families (1,106 persons) will be affected
due to house relocation. Nine enterprises employing 243 workers will also be relocated.
5.   In order to establish a baseline of the socioeconomic conditions of the affected
persons, a detailed socioeconomic survey was carried out by the Xinjiang Academy of
Social Sciences (XASS), and was completed by August 31, 1996.
Legal Framework and Resettlement Policies
6.    The following laws, regulations and guidelines form the basis for preparation of
the RAP.
(a)   Land Management Law of China;
(b)   Guidelines for enforcement of The Land Management Law of China in the
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region;
(c)   Regulations for Compensation and Resettlement for State Construction
Land Acquisition in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and the
attached tables (specifying the compensation rates);
(d)   Rules to enforce "the Management Regulation of House Removal in
Cities";
(e)   Preferential policy of Land Acquisition and Resettlement of Urumqi-
Kuitun Highway Construction.
Implementation of the resettlement program will be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the RAP.
7.    The main objective of the resettlement program is to ensure that all affected
persons are able to improve or at least restore their existing standards of living. This
object will be attained by following established principles of resettlement in China and
delivering specific entitlements of the persons affected by land acquisition's resettlement.
The resettlement principles aim to avoid or minimize resettlement; restore or improve the
standards of living of the adversely affected people; consult affected localities during
project design, compensate villages for the land acquired from them and to compensate



-107 -                       ANNEX6
project design, compensate villages for the land acquired from them and to compensate
individuals for houses, standing crops, or other individually held assets; provide land to
affected persons through land redistribution; and to entrust the implementation of
resettlement programs to the local governments. These principles substantially meet the
Bank's requirements on resettlement.  Based on national laws and regulations on
resettlement, Xinjiang Autonomous Region will issue land acquisition, compensation and
resettlement guidelines for XHP2.
Compensation and Resettlement Policies
8.    The various types of impacts and the compensation or resettlement strategies and
policies for each category of impact are given below:
(a)   Farmland Acquisition. Persons affected by land acquisition will be
provided with alternative agricultural land by bringing additional land
under cultivation or by redistributing the total land available in the
villages/production teams. The minimum per capita landholding which
must be maintained in all the villages is 1.5 mu (1,000 m).  If the
landholding in any production team or village falls below this level, the
affected persons are entitled to be provided jobs in enterprises. However,
in this project, there is no case where the per capita landholding falls
below this minimum level and therefore, all affected persons will be
rehabilitated through provision of altemative land. Affected farmland will
be compensated at six times the average annual productivity of the land.
Standing crops will be compensated at their market value.
(b)   Temporary land leasing. Efforts will be made to lease only wasteland so
that there are no adverse land acquisition impacts.   Land leased
temporarily will be compensated at its actual productive value for the
duration of the lease. Compensation will include: (i) crop compensation;
(ii) land compensation; (iii) cost of restoration of the land to its original
condition after project completion. No buildings will need to be relocated
due to temporary leasing.
(c)    Affected houses. Compensation for affected houses and buildings, owned
by enterprises or individuals, will be paid at replacement rates, as
described in the RAP. No deduction will be made for depreciation or the
cost of salvageable materials while calculating the total compensation
payable.
(d)   Affected enterprises. The affected enterprises will be relocated close to
their existing locations on land provided by the villages. Affected assets
will be compensated at replacement rates. Workers will be employed in
the same reconstructed enterprises and will be paid a work stoppage
allowance equivalent to their wages for the duration of work stoppage.
The affected enterprises will be provided a production stoppage allowance,



-108-                      ANNEX6
for the duration of work stoppage based on the average net profit in the
previous six months.
(e)   Infrastructure and other assets. Compensation for infrastructure and
other affected assets will be paid at replacement cost to the affected
individuals, collectives or governments, depending on the ownership of
these assets.
(f)    Moving and Transition allowance. Each affected household will be paid
a moving allowance and a transition allowance for a period of four
months.
(g)   Payment of Compensation. Compensation for standing crops, houses
and other private structures will be paid directly to the affected persons.
All allowances will also be paid to the affected persons. Compensation for
affected land, public infrastructure, and the resettlement subsidy will be
paid to the county government.
Institutional Responsibility
9.   In the PEO, a Resettlement and Monitoring Office (RMO) has been formed to
carry out the coordination of the planning, implementation and monitoring of land
acquisition and resettlement activities under the project. The actual implementation will
be carried out by the local county and township governments in accordance with the
agreements signed with XCD (PEO), based on the provisions of the RAP. A Lead Group
on resettlement has already been formed for XHP1 (TUDH) and the same group will be
responsible for overseeing the implementation of the RAP for XHP2 (UKH).
10.   The FHSDI is responsible for conducting further detailed surveys based on
detailed engineering designs. Monitoring and Evaluation of RAP implementation will be
carried out by XASS who will also be responsible for conducting baseline and follow up
socioeconomic surveys of the affected people.
11.   Resettlement staff from RMO, the local communications bureau and the other
bureaus in the local government will be given training on resettlement implementation
and monitoring as a part of the project.
Implementation Schedule
12.   The RAP will be implemented from April 1996 to February 1997, in accordance
with the detailed implementation schedule incorporated into the RAP. The resettlement
implementation schedule and the project construction schedule will be linked in order to
ensure that the implementation of land acquisition and resettlement activities is
completed at least one month before the start of project construction. The RAP
implementation schedule is detailed in the project file.



-109 -                      ANNEX6
Costs and Budgets
13.   The cost of land acquisition and resettlement is included as a part of the overall
project budget. The annual requirement of funds for RAP implementation will be
included in the annual investment plans. An item-wise cost table of all land acquisition
and resettlement activities is shown in the project file as well. The cost estimates include
a contingency allowance at 6 percent of the total LAR budget has been provided for.
Similarly, a 5 percent allowance is made for inflation during project implementation.
Compensation amounts payable to the affected persons will be adjusted every year by the
annual inflation factor. However, since compensation payment is expected to take place
within one year, inflation is not expected to be significant. An amount of 4 percent of the
total budget will be paid to the land management bureaus at various levels as
management fee for implementing the RAP.
Redress of Grievances
14.   In case any affected person is dissatisfied with any aspect of the resettlement
program, their grievance can be lodged with the local land management bureau at the
township or the county level. In case the issue is not resolved satisfactorily within three
weeks, a formal application can be made to the Lead Group on resettlement. The issue
will be resolved by the Lead Group within four weeks. If the affected person is not
satisfied with the decision of the Lead Group, he or she can lodge a written appeal to the
county level peoples court. If the decision of the county level court does not satisfy the
affected person, a second appeal can be lodged in the court of the city/prefecture. The
decision of this court will be final and binding.
Information Dissemination, Participation and Consultations
15.   The affected persons will be informed through various media about the project
and the expected land acquisition and resettlement program. The LAR institutions will
also disseminate information through meetings, and notices about the proposed
compensation rates and compensation strategies. The affected people will participate in
(a) efforts to minimize land acquisition and resettlement through choice of appropriate
alignment alternatives; (b) survey of affected persons; (c) selection of new residential
sites; (d) construction of new houses; and (e) monitoring and evaluation of resettlement
activities.
16.   In order to facilitate complete understanding of the resettlement program and of
their entitlements, a Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB) will be distributed to
affected people and their representatives within two months of completion of project
negotiations. The RIB will contain: (a) a brief description of the project and its land
acquisition and resettlement impacts; (b) brief review of the land acquisition and
resettlement program; (c) detailed entitlement policies for the various categories of
affected people; (d) institutions responsible for delivery of entitlements; (e) grievance
redresses mechanism; and (f) arrangements for monitoring and evaluation of the
resettlement program.



-110-                      ANNEX6
Monitoring and Evaluation
17.   The implementation of the RAPs will be carried out both internally (by RMO and
the local communications bureau) and externally (by XASS, specially engaged by XCD
for this purpose).
(a)   Internal Monitoring. Internal monitoring will be monitored by the staff
from RMO and those from the local (city/county, and township)
communications bureaus. Detailed formats for internal monitoring have
been prepared and attached as annexes to the RAP. Internal monitoring
will ensure that: (i) compensation is paid as per the established standards
in the RAP; (ii) land redistribution is carried out in a timely manner and to
the full satisfaction of the affected people; (iii) employees of affected
enterprises are reabsorbed in the same enterprises after relocation;
(iv) adequate compensation has been paid to the persons without residence
registration certificates or those who have built their houses illegally; and
(v) the information dissemination and grievance redress process is
implemented efficiently. Data regarding affected households will be
collected and stored for subsequent comparisons. The internal monitoring
reports will be prepared every three months and summary of internal
reporting will be submitted to the Bank every six months. Internal
monitoring will concentrate on the physical progress of RAP
implementation.
(b)   External Monitoring. External monitoring will be carried out by XASS
and reports will be submitted every six months, until one year after the
completion of RAP implementation. External monitoring will verify the
results of internal monitoring and focus on qualitative issues in RAP
implementation. XASS will select random, representative samples of
affected persons from all categories (at least 25 percent), hold discussions
in the affected areas or resettlement sites, collect secondary information
from project agencies and the internal monitoring agencies as inputs for
preparation of their reports. External monitoring should identify problems
in the implementation process and make recommendations to address
these problems. The first report of the external monitoring agency should
be received by the Bank by December 31, 1996. External monitoring will
continue until one year after completion of RAP implementation. The
need to carry out further monitoring, if necessary, will be reviewed at that
stage. A follow-up socioeconomic survey will be carried out by XASS to
determine the impact of the project on the standards of living of the
affected people. This survey will be carried out one year after the
completion of the project.



-111-                                     ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
This Annex presents the implementation schedule for the various components of
the project. Table I summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the projects as a
whole. Table 2 shows the detailed implementation schedule for the 14 civil works
contract sections of UKH to be constructed by ICB; stabilization of abandoned mines;
administration and maintenance buildings, and service areas and electrical and
mechanical works for UKH. Table 3 depicts the detailed implementation schedule for the
supervision of construction of UKH. Table 4 shows the first year (1997) implementation
schedule for the Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (MRP). These
schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction activities as well as for
preconstruction activities such as preparation of bid documents, prequalification process,
bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and signing of contracts.
TABLE 1: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
I. Urumqi-Kuitun Highway (UKH)
(a) Civil works-lCB contrcts               *  i
(b) Stabilization of abandoned mines
(c) E&M supply & installation-lCB contract  _  _
(d) Service & admin. facilities (Buildings)
(e) Highway maintenance                                        -
(e Highway safety                                                        -
Sunervision of Construction
I UKH & Linking Roads                                           _
Procumment of Equinmet
I UKH
(a) Lab. apparatus
(b) Operation & maintenance
2 Highway Maintenance
(a) Maintenance
3. Institutional Strengthening
Institutonal Strengthenina & Trainin,
I Institutional Strengthening
2. Supervision Training
audv
I. Strategic Study of Regional Transport
2. Highway Safety
Lgend:
gn_    Prequalificationlreparation of Bidding DocumentslTOR.
Bidding Proceas/Competition Among Consultants
Conatruction/Supervision/Delivery/Execution of Studies
TrainingtTechnical Asistance.



-112 -                        ANNEX7
Table 2: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR CONSTRUCTION OF UKH
I. Civil Works
A. 14 Civil Works Contract Sections (ICB)
Prequalification document available for sale on        Dec. 25, 1995
Last date to submit PQ documents                       Mar. 5, 1996
Review bidding documents by consultants and Bank       Mar. 15, 1996
Complete PQ evaluation report                          Jun. 10, 1996
Bank review and no objection to PQ evaluation report   Aug. 10, 1996
Sell bidding documents to prequalified contractors     Aug. 10, 1996
Last date to receive bidding documents                 Nov. 10, 1996
Complete bid evaluation report and government review   Dec. 10, 1996
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection     Jan. 10, 1997
Negotiate and sign contracts                           Feb. 10, 1997
Start construction on                                  Apr. 10, 1997
Complete construction by                               Aug. 30, 2000
B. Stabilization of Abandoned Mines (NCB)
Complete bid document                                  Dec. 15, 1995
Bank review bid document and no objection              Jan. 20, 1996
Invite bids                                            Feb. 10, 1996
Receive bids                                           Mar.25, 1996
Complete bids evaluation                               Apr. 15, 1996
Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection     May 15, 1996
Negotiate and sign contract                            May 20, 1996
Start construction on                                  May 25, 1996
Complete construction by                               Nov. 30, 1996
C. Administration and Maintenance Buildings Service
Areas and Parking Areas, and Toll Plazas (NCB)
Complete bid documents                                 Oct. 1, 1997
Bank review bid documents and no objection             Dec. 1, 1997
Invite bids                                            Dec. 10, 1997
Receive bids                                           Feb. 10, 1998
Complete bids evaluation                               Mar. 20, 1998
Bank review bids evaluation report and no objection    Apr. 20, 1998
Negotiate and sign contracts                           Apr. 30, 1998
Start construction on                                  May. 20, 1998
Complete construction by                               Aug. 30, 1999
II. Electrical and Mechanical Works (ICB)
Complete bid documents and review by MOC                  Jul. 30, 1997
Review bid documents by Bank and no objection             Aug.30, 1997
Invite bids                                               Sep. 30, 1997
Last date to receive bid (stage 1)                        Jan. 1, 1998
Evaluate bid documents                                    Apr. 1, 1998
Contractor prepare financial bids (stage 2)               Apr. 10, 1998
Last date to submit financial bids                        May 10, 1998
Prepare bid evaluation report and MOC review              Jun. 10, 1998
Review bid evaluation report by Bank and no objection     Jul. 10, 1998
Negotiate and sign contract                               Jul. 20, 1998
Start construction on                                     Aug. 1, 1998
Complete construction by                                  Jul. 30, 2000



-113 -                        ANNEX7
Table 3: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION OF UKH
(1) Review and no objection of Bank to terms of reference, letter
of invitation and short list of consultants             Jan. 15, 1996
(2) Issue invitations to consultants                        May 15, 1996
(3) Last date to receive proposals                          Jul. 15, 1996
(4) Complete proposal evaluation report and MOC review      Aug. 15, 1996
(5) Bank review proposal evaluation report and no objection  Sep. 15, 1996
(6) Negotiations with consultant and sign contract          Oct. 15, 1996
(7) Prepare training material by consultant                 Oct. 15-Dec. 30, 1996
(8) Train local staff                                       Feb. 15-Apr. 15, 1997
(9) Supervision works                                       Mar. 1, 1997-Sep. 1, 2000
Table 4: IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR FIRST YEAR (1997) OF
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM (MRP)
(1) Start design                                            May 3, 1996
(2) Complete bid documents                                  Jul. 31, 1996
(3) Review by XCD/XHAB/PEO                                  Aug. 31, 1996
(4) Bank review bid documents and no objection              Nov. 30, 1996
(5) Invite bids                                             Dec. 5, 1996
(6) Receive bids                                            Jan. 20, 1997
(7) Complete bid evaluation                                 Feb. 20, 1997
(8) Bank review bid evaluation report and no objection      Mar. 20, 1997
(9) Negotiate and sign contracts                            Apr. 15, 1997
(10) First Year (1997) start construction                   May. 1, 1997
(11) First Year (1997) complete construction                Oct. 31, 1997



-114-                            ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
Timing   Main Activities                                     Skill Requirements     Staff-
weeks
04/97     Eroject Launch
Review of all key procedures for interactions between  Highway Engineering  6
the Bank and project executing agencies, including  Highway Safety
procurement, disbursement, and project reporting  Highway Economics
requirements. Overall project implementation   Institutional Strengthening/
schedule will be reviewed, including early stage  Training
activities for environmental protection and    Procurement
resettlement.                                  Disbursement
Environment/Resettlement
Special emphasis on:
-Resettlement and environmental measures and
monitoring.
-Contractors and Supervision consultants for UKH.
-Highway Maintenance first-year package.
-Highway Safety first-year package.
-Training proposals for 1998
-Study of regional transport.
-Procurement.
10/97     General Supervision
(i) review progress for each project component,  Highway Engineering        2
identify pending issues, and agree on follow-up  Procurement
actions;
(ii) reach agreement on resettlement monitoring
arrangements; and
(iii) review proposals for second-year package for
maintenance of highway network.
Special emphasis on:
-Procurement of laboratory, research, environmental,
and highway maintenance-related equipment.
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network.
-Construction of stabilization of abandoned mines.



-115 -                           ANNEX8
Timing   Main Activities                                     Skill Requirements     Staff-
weeks
04/98     Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with  Highway Engineering          4
particular emphasis on:                        Highway Safety
(i) contractor's performance;                  Highway Economics
Procurement
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;             Environment/Resettlement
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures
and environmental monitoring;
(iv) monitoring of resettlement;
(v) review proposal for equipment procurement for
the operation and maintenance of the highway
network; and
(vi) review activities on design/bid documents for
E&M supply and installation contract for UKH.
Special emphasis on:
-Highway Safety Program-black spots.
-Procurement of equipment for institutional
strengthening.
10/98     General S
(i) review overall progress for each component,  Highway Engineering        2
identify pending issues, and agree on follow-up  Procurement
actions; and
(ii) review proposal for procurement of equipment
for operation and maintenance of Expressway.
Special emphasis on:
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network.
-Environmental protection measures.
-Highway Maintenance third-year package.
04/99     Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with  Highway Engineering/         4
particular emphasis on:                          Maintenance
(i) contractor's performance;                  Highway Economics
Procurement
(ii) effectiveness of supervision              Training
Environment/Resettlement
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv) staff training programs.
Special emphasis on:
-Expressway construction, quality and supervision.
-Electrical and Mechanical Works: procurement.
-Monitoring of maintenance of highway network.



-116-                            ANNEX8
Timing   Main Activities                                     Skill Requirements     Staff-
weeks
10/99     General Supervision
Review overall progress for each component and  Highway Engineering         2
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow-up
actions.
Special emphasis on:
-Review of project resettlement actions and final
monitoring report.
04/2000   Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with  Highway Engineering          3
particular emphasis on:                        Transport Economics
(i) contractor's performance;                  Highway Safety
Environment/Resettlement
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv) staff training program.
Special emphasis on:
-Progress on E&M contracts.
-Toll arrangements for UKH.
10/2000   General Supervision
Reviewing overall progress for each component and    Highway Engineering    2
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow-up
actions. Preliminary arrangements for preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report will be
discussed.
04/2001   Implementation Completion Report Mission
A consolidated review of project implementation.  Highway Engineering/      4
Maintenance
Transport Economics
Environment
Resettlement
Implementation Review
Preparation of Project Implementation Completion
Report.
Total                                                                   2X



-117-                      ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
A. PROJECT MONITORING
1.    The effectiveness of project implementation in terms of alleviating infrastructure
bottlenecks of Xinjiang at which the project is targeted, will be measured by reference to
a number of monitoring indicators. The specific project objectives and the associated
monitoring indicators are listed in Table 1. Each indicator requires a baseline level
against which the effectiveness of the project in achieving the design objectives can be
measured. XCD obtained the necessary baseline data (as of July 1996) and developed the
necessary methodologies for monitoring. The parameters, baseline and targeted values
shown in the table were set out during the appraisal and were finalized during
negotiations.
2.    The achievement of project output will be monitored by monitoring indicators.
The current monitorable targets are set as shown in Table 2.
B. MONITORING INDICATORS FOR ENVIRONMENT
Construction Period
3.    Environmental Supervision: One of the environmental supervisors in each
contract section will be assigned or nominated to carry out the supervision of the
environmental protection measures addressed in the Environmental Action Plans (EAP)
and integrated in the bid documents. The results will be included in the engineering
supervision reports and reported periodically to the environmental protection staff at the
district level. The results of environmental supervision will be annually reported to the
Bank in the annual report. The monitoring items will include:
(a)   brief description on environmuental protection measures supervised/
inspected during the reporting period; and
(b)   brief description of problems regarding environmental protection measures
and their reasons and possible solutions.
4.    Environmental Monitoring:   Environmental monitoring items, methods,
frequencies, monitoring sites have been clearly decided in the EAP (see Annex 4).
Environmental monitoring will be carried out by the Xinjiang Environmental Monitoring
Center except noise and dust, which will be conducted by environmental supervisors at
respective contract sections. The results will be reported to the environmental protection
staff at the district level. The results of environmental monitoring will also be annually
reported to the Bank in the annual report.



-118 -                          ANNEX9
Table 1: DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
2002
Benchmark
Project       Monitoring                             1999      (Ist year of   2005
Objectives     Indicators         1996 Baseline     Benchmark   operation)   Benchmark
Development  Reduced traffic    Traffic volume
of road       congestion on     Section A-B = 17,800    20,300      4,500       4,600
infrastructure  roads parallel to    Section B-C = 14,000  15,400   4,300       4,400
the proposed road   Section C-D = 6,100  6,800        1,200       1,300
Section D-E = 5,900     7,000       1,100       1,200
Increased average  Travel speed (km/hr)
travel speed on  Section A-B = 50          45           60          55
roads parallel to    Section B-C = 40      35           50          45
the proposed road   Section C-D = 35       30           45          40
Section D-E = 40         35           50           45
Improve      Improved road              IRI              IRI         IRI          IRI
maintenance   surface roughness         6.4              6.1         5.6          5.3
of highway    on the paved road
network       network
Increase in % of   Condition of national
segments of      and provincial road is:
national and
provincial roads      Good: 21%           22%          24%          15%
in fair and good      Fair:  67%          68%         69%          80%
condition             Bad:   12%          10%          7%           5%
Increase      Reduced number   Number of accidents    Number of   Number of   Number of
highway       of traffic       with fatalities per   accidents    accidents    accidents
safety        accidents        number of vehicles:    with        with        with
involving        25/10,000 vehicles    fatalities per  fatalities per  fatalities per
fatalities:                            number of   number of   number of
vehicles:    vehicles:    vehicles:
24/10,000    21/10,000    19/10,000
vehicles    vehicles     vehicles
Note: A-B: Urumqi-Changji; B-C: Changji-Hutubi; C-D: Hutubi-Shihezi; D-E: Shihezi-Kuitun.



-119-                              ANNEX9
Table 2: IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS FOR KEY PROJECT COMPONENTS
Key Monitoring                                                                        2003
Indicators             1997      1998      1999      2000      2001       2002      ICR Year
% of civil works        15         45        80       100       --         --           100
completed on UKH
% of roads under        25         50        75       100       --         --           100
maintenance and
rehabilitation
program
Number of man-         400        800     1,300       --        --         --          1,300
months of completed
training
Highway safety:          --         3         8        10       --         --             10
Improved black spots
Km of highway with       --        20        40        60       --         --            60
signing and markings
completed
Note: UKH = Urumqi-Kuitun Highway



-120 -                      ANNEX9
5.    Environmental monitoring items during the construction period would
include air quality (TSP and dust), noise, lead in soil, crops and herbage and
transmigration of livestock.
Operation Period
6.    Environmental Monitoring:   Environmental monitoring items, methods,
frequencies, monitoring sites have been clearly decided in the EAP (see Annex 4).
Environmental monitoring will be carried out by the same agency as the one during the
construction phase. Based on the monitoring results, environmental protection measures
(to be carried out during the operation period) will be adjusted as appropriate.
7.    Environmental monitoring items during the operation period would include
the same items which would be monitored during the construction phase and the vehicle
exhaust gas.
C. MONITORING OF LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
8.    The monitoring and evaluation of the Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) agreed
between the Bank and XCD will be carried out both intemally and extemally (Anne.x5).
Internal monitoring will be carried out by the RMO and the local communications bureaus.
An internal monitoring report will be submitted to the Bank every six months, with the first
one due on September 30, 1996 and the last one on the completion of the land acquisition
and resettlement activities. XASS will conduct the extemal monitoring of resettlement and
will submit a monitoring report every six months, with the first one to be submitted by July
1, 1996 and the last one at the completion of the project (December 31, 2000).
9.    The main indicators of land acquisition and resettlement monitoring have been
identified and are included in the RAPs. They are:
(a)   Timely payment of compensation to affected entities of various categories
according to the levels described in the RAP;
(b)   Progress of construction of new houses and quality of construction, also
distance from old houses;
(c)   Progress in land redistribution;
(d)   The type of productive use to which compensation amounts have been put
by the local (township and village) govemments;
(e)   Restoration of production/ business activities of affected enterprises.
Payment of all types of compensation (in accordance with RAP) to affected
enterprises and workers;



-121-                                                      ANNEX9
(f)          Propose linkage of resettlement activities with the project implementation
schedule (resettlement to be completed at least one month before start of
construction);
(g)    Restoration of civic infrastructure at the new sites;
(h)    Levels of satisfaction of the affected persons; and
(i)          Income levels and standards of living after resettlement.
D. MONITORING PLAN FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Component                     Implementation Indicators                                   Impact Indicator|  Remarks &
Elements                      Process                       Completion                    Shorl-term                     Lung-term                      Comments
Strenattened Institutional    INDICATOR                     INDICATOR Completion          INDICATOR                       INDICATOR Improvement    Baseline Performtance in
Cagasil                       Number of Staff               of training planned under     Staff trained are sharing new   of performance in specific    sector functions are
Development program          Staff development program     knowledge and                   functions and activities      specilied in Training
Intensive institutional       candidates selected and       SOURCE                        execising new skills           targeted by stuff              Needs Profiles which are
strengthening programs at     sent for training               * Mid-term Training         SOURCE                          development program           kept on file in Project
SOURCE                       Report                        * Reports of workshops held     SOURCE                        Execution Office  Sample
Intenaive mstitutional          * Annual Training Plan        * Project Implementation    by relurning trainees           Implementation Completion    of these Training Needs
strengthening programs at        * TORs for Study Abroad    Completion Report                  Supervision intcrviews     Review                        Profiles ace provided as part
the Support nd Research          * TORs for Investigation                                 and their reports on trainees     * Assesment of              of Annual Training Plan
units                         Study Tours                   INDICATOR Equipment           performarnce                    institutional performance in    submission
procured in operation                                        Activities identified at start
Intensive mntitutional        INDICATOR Equipment           SOURCE                        INDICATOR Equipment used    of project as requiring           Additional baseline dta  re
strengthening programs at     procured within time and        I Equipment Sttu            successfully for purposes       Training and other            included in
the Schools and Training      budget allowed                repors                        intended                        institutional strengthening   TORs for Study Abroad
mstitutions                   SOURCE                                                      SOURCE                          measures                      and TORs for
* Annual                                                   * Reported use of                                            I-tesiagationsStsdy
Procurement Plan                                           equipment                                                     Abroad.
Both of these are incladed
as part of Annuda
submission of a 2-kgr
rolling Training Plan
Traiuing                      INDICATOR                     INDICATOR Training            INDICATOR Trainees              INDICATOR Critical            Performance on untical
Trining in Xinjiang           b of Trainees selected and    programs completed in         assigned to jobs where new      Function and activiLies (for  functions and activites
sent for timely training in  timely manner (as per         skills are effectively utilized  which training was           assessed through Interviews
Training in Other Chins       China and abroad              periodic Plins provided by                                   identified as key factor)      with Supervisors of Units
XCD)                                                         demonstrate improved          which requested tmining -
SOURCE                                                     SOURCE                          performance                   e g type of analyses
Short-Term Training Abroad        Annual Training Report    SOURCE                              Repors from inierviris    SOURCE                        underaken  successful
Annual Training Plan         Mid-term Report           of former trainees             Assessment of institutional    completion of certain tasks.,
Investigation Study Tour                                         Implementation             *   Reports from former       performance (as above)        operation of cenrtn kind of
Complesion Repon             trainees supervisors                                          equipment. etc (information
included as part of Training
Needs Proniles
Interviews are conducted as
pan of assessment of
institutional performance
for Function (activities)
identified at start of project
as requiring Trauning and
other institutional
strengthening measures
New rIssdJtutinaj             INDICATOR                     INDICATOR Systems is          INDICATOR Co!lected Data        INDICATOR
Fmetionn                     Training of stff Equipment    place and operating           used a part of Project
procured                      properly                     execution, to guide             I -Data collection and
Highway Maintenance           SOURCE                                                      implementation                  reporting continued after
* Training Report                                                                        project completion
Semiannual              SOURCE                        SOURCE
Highway Safety                implementation reports          n Data specified in         Periodic Summaries provided    2- Data used as part of
covering (construction,       monitoring plans are         to XCD and PEO Directors        continuing system of
supervision, maintenance)    collected and periodic                                        monitoring, supervision of
Environmental Monitoring                                    reports for each component                                    new investments in XCD
nd Supervision                INDICATOR                     produced.
Proposed data-collection
systems designed  nd data        0 Project
Resettlement Monitoring and    collected                    Implementation Repon
Supervision                   SOURCE
Annual Monitoring
Summaries



-122 -                      ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE
Economic Studies
1.    Engineering Feasibility Study Report: Urumqi-Kuitun Highway Project, MOC's
No. I Highway Survey and Design Institute (FHSDI), and Highway Planning and
Design Institute (HPDI), August 1995 (5 volumes).
2.    Replies to "Comments on Engineering Feasibility Study Report for UKH":
FHSDI and HPDI, April 1995.
Engineering
3.    Review of Engineering Design (Phase I Final Report) - Xinjiang II Highway
Project, Italconsult, July 1995.
4.    Review of Engineering Design (Phase 11 Final Report) - Xinjiang II Highway
Project, Italconsult, April 1996.
Environment and Resettlement
5.    Environmental Impact Assessment for Urumqi-Kuitun Highway Project, Research
Academy of Environmental Science, November 1995.
6.    Environmental Action Plan  for UKH  Project, Xinjiang  Communications
Department (XCD), November 1995.
7.    EA Summary of the UKH Project, XCD, November 1995.
8.    Report on the Emergency Archaeological Excavation along the route of UKH,
Xinjiang Institute of Archaeology, April 1995.
9.    Resettlement Action Plan for Urumqi-Kuitun Highway, Project Execution Office-
Resettlement and Monitoring Office, June 1996.
Highway Maintenance and Regional Transport Studies
10.   Proposal for "A Strategic Study of Regional Transport between Xinjiang and
Neighboring Provinces and Countries."
11.   Report on Highway Network Maintenance Study in Xinjiang Region, XHAB,
MOC's Highway Research Institute and FINNRA, January 1996.



-123 -                      ANNEX 10
Highway Safety
12.   Report from preappraisal mission for the Highway Safety Component of the
Xinjiang II Highway Project, Richard Muskaug, Institute of Transport Economics,
Oslo, Norway, November 1995.
13.   Report on the Highway Safety Component (for the Preappraisal of Xinjiang II
Highway Project), PEO, August 1995.
Equipment
14.   Equipment List for UKH, Project Execution Office, Urumqi, July 1995.
Institutional Strengthening/Training
15.  Institutional Strengthening and Staff Training Report:  Xinjiang II Highway
Project, October 1995.






IBRD 27621
KAZAKSTAN
UZBEKISTAN                        ._,               *MONGOLIA/
.KYRGYZ                -|                     u 
REPUBLIC            .                              o      _
^ ~ tS' \ ~ \ /--}te.>nne Ses of JAPAN
,TAJIKISTAN                                                                %                     -                                                                      , DM   E
_~~~ _G _> | \ >X_> -<__ t V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  Fb KOREA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                     Eas China\ ri
o s Si 4 / v oz / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAC!; 
NEPAL'--               7                                                                                             F'CA                                                          C^
CHINA                                                                                      _-                          _ o
SECOND XINJIANG ,/,  ^q~;s
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                            >(_                                 ~           '\Ss 
National Trunk Highway System  (NTHS)                              0        _      S> //!                                               tf                        ot
MAWJOR H IGHWAYS.\\                                                                                           1/c]rn6                                                 Sea
Corpl.t.d                                        Major Porhts                                                  rql             nDtS
'   Urd., Conftuction /8th F,v YearPion(I 991-1995)   SE   Pro-e Cop,tol.                                     /s               ..o         HONG KONG, UK.
---   9t^SIveYecrPlan(l9962000>   s    Nctionclccpitcl   g                   ~~VIETNAM             o                                           PHILIPPINES
~ Planned Beyond 2000                                Pro-ice Bmundories     7ca^,
NTHS P-intyCo-ndon;                             JnrWrnol oniB-nd-r..              -  LAO PEOPLES ' .;erbg S1
NTHS L.ngter, Co,ridon,TALN                                                          DEM. REP                         /!                                         
THAILA       USSIA
07/2/1996 8n w                     E  [1T|R! |F;






IBRO 27622
68'                         72'                            76'                         80                          8,        \.    RUSSIAN  FED,..                                                    26'
CHINA
SECOND XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                              Nb,h
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
PROPOSED PROJECT UUKH)                                                                                                                                        MONGOLIA
-  - -  -    ONGOING PROJECT TUDH)                                                                                 I - Jmy
NATIONAL ROADS                                                                !              -obomor                          F
PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                            /        OEru,ro
RAILROADS                                         KAZAKSTAN                j Yu-                                                                                                          'A
-A4'                                          AIRPORTS                                                                    !Kor,mo-
()      PROVINCE CAPITAL
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                             3    -
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                       |>
INTERNATIONAL. BOUNDARIES                                      1cl -
-                                  ut-                              Shobh
0   50  100  150 200  250  3To0Duk
L      I           I               K~~IYRGYZ                                     _
KILOMETERS                          REPUBLIC
40 , ' Wushr  \ s                                              Y0                                 -                                    roLonzhou
TAJIKISTAN                            >-    Scohu   /
72'
\  j   @   <\\   90rk.t  _96
7*                 *       Sho7he                                                                                  / r,hn\
Th. boondone ..... colons.h..g
d'o,o-tio., -od on fy
otht Info,mohon shown                              fT
on this oop do not onply,                     ,
Onth. port of The Worl       _ . .
Bo Gh*legal statup  odJJonf - j             - 
terntory or ony endorsre.rr  . t~C
-ro C.ttoc of -uh    c_"\ r^      
boundone.                ro,.S-                              76'                                 B0                                 84                                   88
_'\A I                                                                I                                                                       I






IBRD 27,~2
0         10         20         30
KOCMETDRS                                                                                                        Ura6        r
CHINA
SECOND XINJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
URUMQI - KUfTUN HIGHWAY (UKH)
PROPOSED HIGHWAY (UKH)                               EXISTING IUKHI ROAD
------- UNKING ROADS                                         MAJOR ROADS
-       TUDH PROJECT                                         RURAL ROADS                                                                                         r             .
---- CONNECTION BEING LIPROVED                              RAILROADS
TOLL STATIONS                                                                                                                                            - ,  J       '
0    INTERCHANGES                                                                                                                                              :      
JLY~



I






IMAGING
Report No:      15389 CHA
Type: SAR



