Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4099 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Xinjiang Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
XINJIANG-UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated January 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4099 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and XINJIANG-UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION (XAR).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to three
hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that XAR agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
WHEREAS XAR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) XAR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and XAR shall otherwise agree, XAR shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) XAR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, XAR shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and XAR, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
XAR on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) XAR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
XAR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by XAR of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) XAR shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of XAR responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
XAR shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Page  3
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of XAR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify XAR thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) or
 
For XAR:
The People's Government
Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region
No. 2 Zhongshan Road
Urumqi, Xinjiang 830001
People's Republic of China
Telex:
FAOXJCN 79146
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of XAR may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or Vice-Governor of XAR or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice-Governor shall designate in writing, and XAR shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Page  4
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
XINJIANG-UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.09 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
 
Page  5
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph 4 below, works estimated to cost 
less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$128,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Force Account
 
Works under Part D of the Project which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 
of the Guidelines, and costing $900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract:
(a)
for works estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more; and
 
(b)
for goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more,
 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (i) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms, (iii) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Part A of the Project:  Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
 
1.
XAR shall:
 
(a)
carry out the EAP and the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the EAP and the RAP to the Bank for its 
prior approval;
(c)
during the construction phase of the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway and for each 
of the first three (3) years following completion of construction, prepare, under 
terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank an annual environmental monitoring report; and
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) by March 31 and September 30 of each year starting September 30, 1996, 
an internal monitoring report
prepared by the appropriate agencies of XAR; and (ii) by June 30 and December 31 of 
each year starting December 31, 1996, an external monitoring report prepared by an 
independent agency acceptable to the Bank, regarding the implementation and impact of 
the resettlement activities during the previous six months.
B.
Part B of the Project:  Highway Maintenance
 
1.
XAR shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by March 30 of each 
year from 1997 until 2003, in a format acceptable to the Bank, an annual highway 
maintenance report in respect of the
entire regional highway network which shall:
(a)
indicate the length and condition of each class of road; 
 
(b)
establish targets for the following year, including an estimate of the 
required physical works and costs thereof; and
(c)
measure the results and actual expenditures of the past year against the 
targets and the budgeted funds therefor.
2.
XAR shall:
Page  7
(a)
by January 31 of each year commencing in 1997, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank for its concurrence the MRP yearly program for such year on the basis of 
technical and economic criteria acceptable to the Bank, such yearly program to include 
inter alia an estimate of the costs therefor and the expected IRI on the road segments 
covered by such program; and
(b)
thereafter, implement such program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
 
3.
XAR shall, by January 31 of each year from 1997 until 2000, furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comments, an annual report on highway maintenance and 
rehabilitation under the MRP which shall:
(a)
indicate the highway maintenance and rehabilitation activities undertaken 
during the previous year; and
(b)
indicate the actual IRI for the previous year, the expected IRI during 
the current year, and the costs associated with achieving such IRI, on the paved 
highways included in the MRP.
C.
Part C of the Project:  Institutional Strengthening and Training
 
1.
XAR shall (a) carry out the training under Part C of the Project in accordance 
with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to that end, by October 31 of 
each year commencing in 1997, furnish to the Bank for its approval a rolling two-year 
training implementation schedule.
2.
XAR shall, by April 30, 2000, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, 
an analysis and recommendations of the structure of toll-rates on the Urumqi-Kuitun 
Highway taking into consideration the results of studies on toll-rate structures 
conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the experience with 
toll-rates in other parts of China.
D.
Part D of the Project:  Highway Safety Program
 
1.
XAR shall establish, not later than December 31, 1996, and thereafter maintain: 
(a) a Leading Group, which shall include representatives from XCD and the regional 
agency responsible for traffic safety, for traffic safety coordination and 
policy-making, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (b) a 
Highway Safety Secretariat, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Bank, to serve as secretariat for said Leading Group and to develop safety audit 
procedures.
2.
XAR shall, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank:
 
(a)
by October 31, 2000, complete a black spot identification and improvement 
program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
by October 31, 2000, complete a program to improve road signs and 
markings in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
by December 31, 2001, have an expert acceptable to the Bank prepare an 
evaluation of its highway safety program according to indicators acceptable to the 
Bank.
E.
Part E of the Project:  Promotion of Regional Transport
 
XAR shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1996 establish a review panel with membership acceptable 
to the Bank to guide the regional transport study under Part E of the Project and 
provide comments on the results and
recommendations of said study;
(b)
by September 30, 1998 complete said study in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish said study together with the comments of 
said review panel to the Bank for review; and
Page  8
(c)
take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study, 
taking into consideration the comments thereon of said review panel and the Bank.
F.
Reporting and Monitoring
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions:
1.
XAR shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish 
to the Bank:
(a)
a monthly report of the progress of works on the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway; 
and
(b)
a quarterly report of the progress of implementation of all components of 
the Project.
2.
XAR shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997 until completion of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual report of the progress of 
implementation of all components of the
Project as measured against the projected indicators set forth in Table 2 of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement except as the Bank and XAR shall otherwise agree.
3.
XAR shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997 until 2005, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank an annual report on the attainment of the development objectives 
of the Project as measured against the projected indicators set forth in Table 1 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement except as the Bank and XAR shall otherwise agree.
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators
(SEE ORIGINAL FOR TALBES 1 AND 2, THE FORMAT WILL FIT THE DOCUMENT)
