Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5148-MOZ
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 16.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR AN
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 18, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE PEOPLE'S REPIBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            .    Metical (plursl Meticais)
US$1                                     X    715 Meticais (Appraisal)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)                                    3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m. sq)                   .    10.76 Square Feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOF:                      Ministry of Finance
BOM:                      Bank of Mozambique
DDR:                      German Democratic Republic
ERPt                      Economic Rehabilitation Program
NATCAP:                   National Technical Cooperation Assessment
and Programs
SOEs                      State-Owned Enterprise
UNDP:                     United Nations Development Program
USAID:                    United States Agency for International
Development
CTPU:                     Central Technical Project Unit
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Mozambique: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The People's Republic of Mozambique
Amountt              SDR 16.5 million (US$21.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard with 40 years maturity
Onlending Term:     Not Applicable
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign         Total
(USS million)
Government                2.0             0.0            2.0
IDA                       0.0           21.0            21.0
Total                     2.0           21.0            23.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   None
k!!2s IBRD 20704
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR AN ECONOMIC AND FTNANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the People's Republic of Mozambique for SDR 16.5 million (US$21.0
million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The propnsed credit would
be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, and would help
finance a project of institutional support for key economic decision-making
agencies involved in the implementation of the Government's Economic
Rehabilitation Program (ERP), which is concurrently being supported by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Association.
2.       Background.  Achieving independence in 1975, Mozambique has
experienced a dramatic decline in its economy over the past decade,
particularly in the past five years, with GDP falling by about 8 percent
per year between 1981 and 1986. However, in 1987 and 1988 GDP has grown at
an average of four percent per annum. Agricultural production is only
about 50 percent of Lts 1981 level while industry is operating at 20-40
percent of capacity and exports have fallen to about 28 percent of their
1981 level. This decline is the result of a combination of factors,
including in particular: the exodus of Portuguese settlers following
independence and the wide-spread security problems now confronting the
country, especially in the rural areas. These latter factors have
exacerbated the weaknesses of the country's overall institutional bases
Mozambique has a level of human resource development, in terms of literacy,
basic education, and qualified manpower that is low even compared to the
rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. According to a recent National Technical
Cooperation Assessment and Programs (NATCAP) survey, conducted and financed
by the UNDP, less than three percent of total staff in core economic
agencies had university training while 50 percent of total staff had less
than nine years of basic education.
3.       The Government recognizes that renewed growth will depend on its
efforts to change economic policies, re-establish domestic stability, and
increase the flow of external assistance to finance the adjustment process
as well as tackle the fundamental development issues facing the country.
On the policy front, the process of reform has been initiated with the
launching of the ERP which is being supported by IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility Credits and IDA Rehabilitation Credits. These measures, designed
to stabilize the fiscal and external situation, establish a realistic
foreign exchange value, reduce administrative controls over foreign
exchange and trade management, are all important steps to eliminate
economic distortions and structural imbalances. However, many of these
measures have been hampered by the lack of technical support for policy
analysis and execution in the form of data gathering, projections,
mcnitoring and evaluation of policy impact. Moreover, institutions that
are vital to the successful implementation of the ERP require significant
strengthening. Ensuring that the basic systems of government function more
efficiently is a requirement for adjustment and future growth.



-2-
4.       Overcoming the institutional weaknesses that confront Mozambique
is a long-term objective that requires deliberate and concerted efforts on
a wide number of fronts by Government and the donor community. Given the
paucity of qualified manpower and the lack of resources, there are daunting
needs in virtually all aspects of economic and financial management as
reflected in the conclusions of studies conducted by several donors. The
Dutch, Swedish and Swiss Governments, through their respective technical
cooperation programs, have undertaken diagnostic studies of Mozambique's
national economic management institutions and by and large have confirmed
IDA's evaluation of the country's needs in this area. Furthermore, the
NATCAP studies also highlighted the severe shortage of skilled government
staff in the economic and financial policy making area; needs which were
confirmed during IDA's appraisal missions. The selective and focused
approach adopted by this project complements the efforts being undertaken
by donors, such as Brazil, Switzerland, Sweden and the IMF.
5.       Proiect Obiectives.  In light of the needs discussed above, this
first effort to provide institutional support by IDA sets modest goals,
limiting this initiative to those activities that are vital to two priority
institutions: the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bank of Mozambique
(BOH). Project objectives are to provide support to these two priority
institutions to: (i) carry out technical analyses in the areas of economic
policy formulation, capital budgeting (to include selection, analysis,
programming and monitoring of projects), and banking operations; (ii)
define specific needs and prepare programs of institutional support as the
basis for immediate action as well as subsequent follow-up; (iii) increase
the stock of qualified professionals needed in two essential areas
(accounting and economic analysis); and (iv) increase the productivity and
effectiveness of the two priority institutions, by furnishing them with the
basic systems and equipment needed for their day-to-day operations,
particularly in financial systems and production of basic economic
information.
6.       Proiect Description.  The project will consist of two main
components. The first component is for MOF to provide assistance to: (i)
the Economic Analysis and Price Department in the National Treasury
Directorate to improve the collection and analysis of economic information
for economic policy formulation; (ii) the National Budget Directorate to
improve capital budgeting, and (iii) the carrying out of an accounting
training program. The second component is for BOH to provide assistance
to: (i) strengthe.. the Economic Research Department to improve data
collection, economic analysis and policy formulation including the
establishment of a Documentation Center; (ii) improve banking operations by
computerizing banking systems and introducing modern equipment; and (iii)
strengthen the legal advisory services provided within BOM, especially
regarding external financing and negotiations with creditors. Financing
would be provided for advisors, consultants, training, as well as computer
and other equipment.
7.       The proposed project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997
and is estimated to cost US$23.0 million equivalent, including a foreign
exchange component of US$21.0 million. An advance from the Project
Preparation Facility of US$1,267,000 has financed preparation and start-up
activities and will be refinanced under the proposed credit. The break-



-3-
down of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A and details of
procurement and disbursements are given in Schedule B. A timetable of key
processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Mozambique aze
given in Schedules C and D, respectively. More detailed information on the
project is provided in Annex 1.
8.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  This project is an essential part
of IDA's strategy to help Mozambique continue to carry out the ERP as well
as lay the basis for improving economic management. Immediate assistance
to improve the flow of economic information as well as in financial
analysis and policy formulation is critical for the successful
implementation of the ERP, which IDA is also supporting. In the longer
run, i; is important that the organizational units responsible for these
functions be strengthened to enable the Government to manage the economy
more effectively and conduct a meaningful policy dialogue on economic
issues.
9.       Main agreements reached.
(a)   During negotiations, the Borrower agreed:
'i)     that the project will be implemented in accordance with
the timetable contained in Annex 1, Schedule 1
'Implementation Plan);
(ii)    that annual project implementation reviews would be
carried out not later than November 30 of each year; and
(iii)   that a management structure to carry out the execution of
the project would be effected.
(b)   As conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i)     that the management committee for BOM component has been
duly established; and
(ii)    that the Project Coordination Assistant has been selected
and contracted.
(c)   As conditions of disbursements:
(i)     Credit funds to finance the accounting training program
for the public sector and staff of publi, enterprises
will be conditioned on the Association approving a
proposal for the training program, including a detailed
budget and implementation plan. The Borrower should also
define the eligibility conditions to enroll in the
accounting training program as well as arrangements for
course facilities and educational accreditation; and
(ii)    Credit funds to finance training and acquisition of
equipment for the Central Technical Project Unit (CTPU)
will be conditioned on the establishment and operation of
CTPU on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.



-4-
10.      Justification.  At present, two key agencies of the Government,
MOF and BOH require substantial support to monitor and implement more
effectively the ERP. In the long run, these institutions need to improve
their capacity to shape policies in a changing economic environment. The
proposed project, in addressing these problems, is expected to provide the
support needed for implementation of the ERP. More generally, the project
will improve the basic operating systems and initiate a process of
institutional improvement in areas that constitute critical underpinnings
to the economy, particularly in the financial sector and key policy
functions of Government.
11.      Risks.  The major risk affecting the proposed project is the
existing weak institutional base which hampers the implementation of
development projects more widely in Mozambique: decision-makers are
overworked; there is no middle management level to which to delegate;
inadequate inter-agency coordination; and limited experience in working
with international agencies. These factors combine to make project
implementation difficult. Phased implementation schedules; well-defined
tasks; substantial support by IDA during the course of implementation and
carefully selected residential advisors supported by short-term consultants
are vital to minimize this risk and constitute measures incorporated into
the project.
12.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of IDA and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credir.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
September    1989



Schedule A
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
-------------_------------------------_---------------
Estimated Costs
Local          Foreign          Total
---------------USS million-------------
A. Assistance to Ministry of Finance
1. Economic Analysis and Policy Formulation            0.8             1.24            1.30
2. Budgeting                                            O.96            1.19            1.26
8. Accounting In SOEs and Other Agencies                O.10            1.9O            1.16
0.22            3.48            3.70
S. Assistance to Bank of Mozambique
1. Econ. Analysis and Policy Formul./Doc. Center        0.37            1.76            2.12
2. Banking Operations                                   0.76           11.42           12.18
S. Legal Advisory Services                              9.30            0.43            @.73
1.43           13.66           16.03
C. Project Organization rnd Managment                     .003            0.71            0.74
Base Costs                                1.68            17.79           19.47
Physical Contingencies                                    O.O7            0.70            0.77
Price Contingencies                                       0.24            2.63             2.77
Total Project Costs                             1.9            21.02           23.01
Financing Plan
--------------                               Local           Foreign          Total
------------US  million--------- -
Government                                  2.0            -                2.0
IDA                                                     21.0            21.0
Total                                    2.0             21.0            23.0



-6-
Schedule S
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMIBJUE            Pe   o  2
-----------------------------------
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
-_---------,-----_-_--------.--------_---___-__.--_---
----------------------__--------------------------__-.--_.-.--_----_---_---_-__----_-------
Procurment Mothods
Project Element              ---______________________________-_
ICa     LCB    Other          NA          Total Cost
----------------------USB million…-----------------…-…--
Long-term Consultants                                   8.86                          3.36
(3.22)                        (8.22)
Short-term Consultants                                  7.89                          7.89
(7.69)                        (7.59)
Training                                                8.11                          3.11
(2.82)                        (2.82)
Equipment, Vehicles, Computers,       4.78              1.50 a/  0969                 6.87
Software, and Suppieos             (4.78)            (1.56)     (6.39)             (6.58)
Civil Works                                   0.064                                  0.964
(9.657)                                (0.067)
Operating Costs                                                    1.78 b/            1.78
(0.76)            (9.76)
Total                       4.76    9.084    1.658       2.82              23.02
(4.78)  (9.0657)  (15.13)    (1.06)            (21.02)
o/ Purchases of oquipment/vehicles costing less than 616,090 would be through Inter-
national or locol shopping procedures, with at least thrwe quotations.
b/ Operating costs finanead by credit proceeds include maintenance of equipment, vehicles
and buildinge used in the execution of the project.
Note: 1. Contingencies and expenditures financed by the PPF are ineludod In the amounts
shoun.  Figures in peroetheses indicate the amount of IDA contribution.
2. Spar. parts, proprietory supplies, books and periodicals shall be procured
by direct contracting In a manner aecceptable to IDA.



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Dioburoements
Amo',nt of             % of Expenditures
Credit Allocated             to be Financed
Category                                                 --------                    --------
........                                                    (in Million)
use      SOR
Civil Works               Pafrt U(1) ()                            0.64     o.6a        166% foroign expenditures
Equipment, Vehicles,
Computers, Softears, and                                                                1661 foreign *xpenditures
Supplies
a) MOF                                                    6.26     0.20
b) 6ON                                                    4.86     8.80
Consultants' Serwico  Including eudite                                                 1661 foreign expenditures
*) MO                                                     1.41     1.10
b) DOM                                                    6.08     6.40
Training                                                                                1661 foreign expenditures
a) MOF          Paot A(1);A(2);C(2)(a);C(3)(s)            6.19     0.15
Part A(S)                                0.80      0.65
b) BOW                                                    1.48     1.12
Operating Cost$                                                                         1661 total expenditures
a) MOP                                                    6.08     e.6a
b) BOI                                                    6.68     0.41
Goods and Service
a) MOf          Part. A.2(d), (e); (f)                    0.14     0.11         ';foreign expenditures
PPF                                                                1.27      1.66      Amount Duo
Unallocated                                                        a .9      2.60
21.6     16.6
Estimated IDA Dlobureomnt
IDA Fiscal Year
S0       91       02        9a       U4       96         96       97
(US1 millon)
Annual                         3.4     569        4.2      2.6      2.1       1.8       09.       0.1
Cuemulative                    8.4      9.2      18.4     16.2     18.8      20.1      26.9     21.0



8                    Schedule C
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                   Three years
Prepared by:                             Government with Bank assistance
First Bank Missions                      March 1986
Appraisal Mission Departure:             July 1986
Post-Appraisal Mission Departure:        June 1988/May 1989
Negotiations:                            August 1989
Planned Date of Effectiveness:           February 1990



-9-
Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SrATiJS OF 6ANO GPOUP OPEPATIONS !N NOZAMBIQUE
SPQ 5 - SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(LOA DATA AS OF 813;!90 - MIS DATA AS OF 091141891
. ..... ........  .. ..................................... ....... ............ ....
4mount in USI billion
iless incellationti
^^.an or    C:sca1                                                                                                  Un,7ts-  £!^sina
Coedit No.    tear   PBorower                               Purooue                          PBnk           IDA      buried   tate
.......... ------........ --------                          ...... .                         ----..         ---      ------  ....... . -  .     .
Credits
n Creddtsts! closed
CI61Q0-OlM  !985       MD!AMBIQUE                           QEHABILITATION PRO.P                          45."O          .8e  o; A  BPe
C190,sQ-HOl   987    MOZAMBIQUE                             ENEP6t TA & REHAB.                            2 0.0        17.i4  12313!92
CA'330-MOZ   1986      NOZANPIQUE                           OE0AP.I!                                      19.0          b. 90  12131'099P.
C1e410-MOZ  iJB    MO'7AMB!QUE                              REHA3.11                                      70.00         6.13  12/31189iR
C190?0-NOZ  !088    ftiANP!PRE                              EDUC.  1                                      15.90        13.b3  12!31'95
C19490-MOZ  1989    T4AMPIQUE                               UPBAN REHAB                                   60.00        47.59  12/31I95
C19890i-NO0   !99°    4NO4P!JDUE                            HEALTH 3 NUTRITION                            27.00        26.29  12'31'94
C20210-"OZ  1989    MO!AMEIQUE                             REHAE.III                                     90.00        85.39  04130/91
C2031A-4O!  1989       WAO'AMIOUE                           HSEHOLD EBY CPEDIT                            22.00        21.41  12131/96
TOTAL number Credits a    Q                                                                                369.50       225.35
YijTAL f#*                                                                             369.10
of whc!  'eciId
TOTAL te!i b  b  a    ' IDA                                                            368.50
Asount sold
oi mhTch reoa:d
TOTAL  ,no isbured                                                                                  -5  5
40ot 1et effec ive
* Not Yet smoned
%t ic+l Acoreved, Peoi,tefts. ;^  `--PtAlno balance 'eoresent toth ar~.+e aW`                 inctc Ve L^an! asd Credit!.
*   indicites formal!v revise*a Cloa8i^0   ate.
The 4et Aooroved ind 9ank Peeovyents ;re k:StCrIC?! */a!ue. 31! ethers ire  3arket ealue.
The Stioino. E"ective. a'd  Csino jates are based uoon the Loan Decirteent c'fica! dats ird ire not akeo
f,ie Tsk Peudoet #ile.



- 10 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
Date: 15-Sep-89
HOZAN6IQUI
Statement of I1C Investments
as of July 31, 1989
Invest                                       Type of
W.r           FT               Obligor      hsinase          Loan   Equity    Total
------------- -USSN--------------------------------------------  sillion--......
864-hOZ     1987                 LONACO Food & Food Proc       2.5               2.5
978-HOZ     1988            Iai hi Oil Chem A Petroches                 7.8      7.8
Total Gross Comitunts                        2.5      7.8      10.3
Less: Cancellations, teruinations,
exchange adjustments, repaymnat,
write-offs, and sales                 0.3      2.3      2.6
Total coEitnents held by IlC                 2.2      5.5       7.7
Total Undisbursed                                     5.3       5.3
Total Disbursed                              2.2      0.2       2.4



- 1 1 -                ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 14
IHE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Background
1.        Ministry of Finance (MOF).  In addition to its normal budget,
expenditure control, and economic policy functions, MOF has been given
primary responsibility for the monitoring and implementation of the
Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) and the associated agreements with
the IMF and IDA. To carry out this task effectively, the Ministry needs to
have the capacity to: (i) collect economic and financial data; (ii)
undertake macroeconomic analysis; (iii) formulate macroeconomic policy
alternatives; and (iv) effectively manage (raise, allocate, disburse,
monitor, audit) the Government's domestic and external financial resources,
including those used by the state-owned enterprises (SOEs).
2.        In response to its growing responsibilities, MOF was recently
reorganized and now consists of three national directorates: (i) Treasury;
(ii) Budget; and (iii) Tax and Audit. Together with the Minister and Vice-
Minister, the three National Directors constitute the senior management
team of the Ministry. The proposed project would provide direct support to
the first two of the directorates identified above and training support to
the audit function of the third, thus focussing primarily on the
expenditure rather than the revenue side of the Government's budget.
3.        The National Treasury Directorate is responsible for economic
analysis and policy formulation, international cooperation, and management
of the internal and external debt. To carry out these functions, it has
incorporated the former departments of Economic Analysis and Prices and of
International Cooperation. However, to be effective, it needs to expand
and redefine the functions of these departments. Hitherto, the Economic
Analysis and Prices Department has limited its activities primarily to
acting as a secretariat for the National Wage and Price Commission. In the
case of the International Cooperation Department, activities have been
limited essentially to recording and monitoring foreign aid inflows and
payments of interest and amortization on the external government debt. To
properly monitor and implement the ERP and, in particular, to adapt it to
changing circumstances will require capacity to undertake economic analysis
and policy development as well as to record, monitor and manage the inflow
of external resources in support of that program. The available staff
resources are inadequate to handle these responsibilities. Although
recruitment of new staff would help in the longer term, such new staff will
need both formal and on-the-job training.



- 12 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 14
4.        The National Budget Directorate's function is the formulation
and implementation of the expenditure side of the budget (revenues are the
responsibility of the National Tax and Audit Directorate). The Directorate
has two departments: (i) the Budget Department which prepares the budget;
and (ii) the Budget Execution Department which operates the accounting
systems for the state budget, pensions and government salaries. Both
departments are understaffed. The Budget Department has only three
officers to prepare both the recurrent and investment budgets. The Budget
Execution Department has a somewhat larger staff, i.e., six officers with
secondary education and some 24 accounting clerks. With the assistance of
the Swedish Technical Cooperation Program, Government has prepared a
proposal for a comprehensive reform of the public budgeting system, which
will require significant institutional changes. The proposal includes the
creation of a "Central Technical Project Unit" which will be responsible
for the formulation and application of procedures for project preparation,
evaluation, and monitoring.
5.        The audit function of the National Tax and Audit Directorate is
particularly weak. Many SOEs, which in Mozambique are a major drain on
government resources, have not had accounts prepared or audited for several
years. Therefore, current efforts to improve their performance and
effectiveness are severely hampered by lack of financial informition. This
state of affairs is due, in large part, to the severe shortage of
accounting staff at all levels and in all organizations.
6.        Bank of Mozambique (BOM).  BOM is Mozambique's central bank and
as such issues notes and coins, acts as banker for the Government, manages
the country's foreign exchange reserves and is responsible for
international financial relations. In addition, it formulates and
implements the Government's monetary and credit policies. As is expected,
it works closely with the National Planning Commission and MOF in its
economic policy functions. The adoption of the ERP has greatly increased
the need to improve and strengthen the capacity of BOM to collect and
analyze economic and financial information, undertake economic and
financial analysis and formulate economic, monetary and financial policy.
7.        In addition to central banking functions, BOM is also the
country's largest commercial bank, accountirng for about 80 percent of
credits extended by the banking system. In this regard, it also exercises
a monopoly on external banking transactions. Of the other two commercial
banks, the Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento specializes in savings and
financing of agriculture while the Banco Standard Totta de Mocambigue,
which is owned by private overseas investors, finances primarily commercial
activities in the major urban centers.
8.        The day-to-day management of BOH is the responsibility of the
Governor assisted by a board of :.anagers. Currently, there are eight
managers, each of whom supervises the operations of one of BOM's
departments. The manager of the Maputo branch office also normally
participates in the meetings of the board of managers. In addition, there
is a consultative council which meets twice annually. It consists of the



- 13 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 14
managers, department heads, branch managers, and representatives of the
party cells and mass democratic organizations.
9.        BOH has branch offices in all ten provincial capitals and has,
in addition, 34 other offices throughout the country. However, central
banking functions are handled by headquarters and the bulk of commercial
banking activities by the Maputo branch; some 56 percent of the banking
staff is located in Maputo while 46 percent is divided among the remaining
branches and other offices.
10.       In carrying out its functions, BOM faces the same difficulties
as some other organizations in Mozambique notably: (i) a poorly trained and
inexperienced staff; (ii) broken down and obsolete equipment; and (iii)
lack of supplies and materials. Some of these deficiencies are partially
offset by the enthusiasm and hard work of the staff but basic problems need
to be solved. Of the 2,026 people involved in banking activities, as of
1988, only 26 had post-secondary education and only 123 at least 11 years
of elementary and secondary school. Further, most of the staff with these
qualifications are carrying out both managerial and technical functions.
The results are over-work and lack of time to deal with policy questions.
The situation has been further aggravated by the loss of trained staff:
between 1984 and 1988, a sufficient number of banking staff are reported to
have left BOM, some in managerial positions.
11.       Other aspects of BOM's operations suffer from lack of modern
equipment. It is, for example, reported that of 309 accounting machines
only 85 were in good condition, and 45 salvageable. Similarly, there is a
lack of transport with some branch offices without any usable vehicle. The
situation with respect to automated data processing equipment is equally
dismal because of age, lack of spare parts and general obsolescence.
Although there are micro-computers available to BOM, there is a need for
more integration and an overall plan for their use. Systematic
computerization of the accounting system will enhance the capacity of BOM
to exercise greater control over credit and monetary policy, and to help in
the separation of the commercial and central banking function of the
institution in accounting terms. A new chart of accounts was developed
with the assistance of the IMF and is designed to be applied using
automatic data processing. That system is designed to provide BOX
management with timely and detailed information, as well as to separate
more clearly its central banking and commercial accounts.
12.       Communications between headquarters and the branches also need
to be improved so that consolidated accounts and management isnformation can
be provided in a timely fashion. Because of lengthy delays, information
becomes obsolete before it can be effectively used. Finally, BOM's
Library/Documentation Center used to function relatively well but has
deteriorated due to lack of funds. There is now no central point for the
purchase, cataloguing and circulation of relevant books, documents and
periodicals.
13.       Linked to these issues is the need for improved legal advisory
services, especially on international financial issues, including external



- 14 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 14
financing and debt rescheduling. The small in-house staff of lawyers (some
of whom had not completed their formal law training when the law school
closed for several years) are not prepared to deal with the sophisticated
demands for legal services requested from them for BOM's routine operations
(title searches, letters of credit, foreclosure, etc.). Moreover, as
external debt issues and negotiation of international financial agreements
gain greater prominence, there is a need for them to develop their
understanding of complex legal aspects in the drafting and negotiation of
international agreements. Questions of a regional nature also demand a
high level of legal expertise that BOM does not possess.
Current Assistance
14.       Hinistry of Finance.  The Government nas requested external
assistance to help the Ministry carry out its functions. The UNDP has
executed a Preparatory Assistance Project (PAP) designed to provide
immediate assistance in the form of high level advisors, consultants and
equipment and a longer-term project has been prepared. Under the PAP, the
UNDP is financing one long-term (12 months) advisor to the Economic
Analysis and Price Department, and one Fiscal Economist to the National
Budget Directorate, as well as short-term consultants in a variety of
macro-economic policy areas.
15.       The Dutch and Swedish Governments also have been requested to
provide assistance to help integrate external financing into the state
budget and to improve the process of budget preparation and control. The
Swedish Government is providing two expatriates to the National Budget
Directorate to help improve the budgeting system, including accounting.
The purpose of this assistance is to support a major overhaul of budgetary
practices throughout government. Continued assistance by the Swedish
Technical Cooperation to implemer,t the budget systems reform is envisaged
which also includes support in the form of equipment (micro-computers) and
supplies, and funds for training.
16.       In preparation of the proposed project, under an advance from
its Project Preparation Facility (PPF), IDA has financed the services of
one senior advisor to MOF, for a period of 24 months, extendable. The
advisor, who has been in Maputo since mid-1987, is assisting the Research
Department to improve its current activities, including maintaining the
flow of financial and economic information, economic and financial
analysis, the preparation of economic policy recommendations, and
preparation of a long-term action plan. Implementation of that action plan
would be financed, in part, under the proposed project. He is also
providing advice on pressing financial and economic policy matters that
might arise during his stay in Mozambique and has produced a draft program
of assistance to MOF, as required in preparation for the proposed credit.
17.       Finally, to address the problems caused by inadequate financial
information due to substantially delayed maintenance of accounts and
performance of audits, the PPF has financed the Government's employment of
a consulting firm to carry out a broad review of the accounting profession
in Hozambique and to evaluate an outstanding proposal to undertake a major



- 15 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 14
effort to train a large number of accountants in SOEs and ministries over
the next five years.
18.       Bank of Mozambique.  BOM is currently receiving assistance from
the IMF and the Government of Brazil. The IMF assistance consists of three
long-term experts, one in monetary, credit and foreign exchange policy,
another in accounting, and a third in organizational planning and
development. The Government of Brazil is assisting in some specific
computer applications to bank operations. The Government of Switzerland is
preparing to provide assistance in operational training witb a view to
developing internal training capabilities. Under the advance from the PPF,
IDA has made provisions for the services of two experts for 12 months each
in the fields of economic analysis and policy formulation, and debt
management. Difficulties in recruiting such experts have not allowed full
utilization of such assistance.
General Approach and Obiectives
19.       The design of the proposed project has taken into account the
deficiencies of past technical assistance efforts in Sub-Saharan Africa and
the difficult circumstances in Mozambique. It is based on a recognition
that the process through which technical assistance is provided is as
important as the technical skills that the advisors bring with them. It
also recognizes that the appropriateness of a particular advisory service
depends on the specific objectives to which it is directed. It makes a
clear distinction among the different types of technical assistance to be
provided and carefully targets assistance to well-defined tasks. The
beneficiary institutions also have a key role in the formulation of action
plans and annual work programs in order to ensure that technical assistance
(TA) is focused on agreed activities and that complementary actions are
identified and carried out.
20.       Under the proposed project, the objectives of the technical
assistance effort are three-fold: (i) to meet short-term performance
requirements in the key economic and financial management functions of MOF
and BOM; (ii) to begin to restore those two institutions' technical
capacity over the medium-term; and (iii) to establish a sustainable
capacity within those institutions to plan and manage change under the
project. Although those objectives are all complementary, each requires a
different approach to the provision of consulting, training, and directly
applied skills. Thus, advisors under the project are expected to focus on:
(i) diagnosing the needs for institutional strengthening in their
respective units; and (ii) helping design an overall plan to achieve that
improvement with clearly identified short-term as well as long-term
activities and making recommendations on inter-agency coordination to carry
out such activities. They would then be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the short-term measures and devising ways to start the
long-term process. The advisors' job would further entail providing
general advice to the concerned management, identifying candidates for
specialized training and the need for specialized short-term assistance,
and more generally monitoring progress.



- 16 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 14
21.       In terms of training, ad hoc university training or fellowships
will be used to train a few individuals through formal education in
specific areas to improve the institutions' capacity in technical matters.
However, this formal training is not sufficient to significantly improve
the organization's ability to manage its operations. Group training, using
job-specific cases, and relying on fewer and shorter absences from the
office environment, would also be provided to satisfy less technical
demands for training as well as to focus on management issues. Specialized
assistance could be brought in to help the units define their training
needs and to prepare training programs for each unit that would
subsequently be implemented under the proposed project.
Ministry of Finance Component
22.       Economic Analysis and PolicX Formulation (US$1.4 million) 1/.
The Economic Analysis and Price Department will be assigned primary
responsibility for implementing this sub-component. Assistance financed
under the project would address the objectives identified above as follows:
(a)     Immediate and Short-Tem Performance Requirements.  The services
of the Senior Economic Advisor financed under the PPF advance
would be continued for the duration of the project. He would:
(1) assist in the updating of a three year action-plan of
economic and financial analysis and policy work linked to the
ERP; (ii) prepare annual work programs for implementation of the
action-plan; (iii) continue to provide economic advice to the
Minister and the National Director of the Treasury; and (iv)
help manage the economic research function in the Ministry; and
(b)     Restore Technical Capacity.  Within the framework of the action
plan, the proposed project would also provide: (i) short-term
consultancy services (12 person months) for special studies on
specific economic and financial policy issues; (e.g.
reorganization of local capital markets and the establishment of
an appropriate interest rate structure); (ii) planning
assistance to the Statistics Department (7 person months); (iii)
wwk s~--tsfl5tq5sEK  'tb per~o" raeS4-1-S  .e   t Cist in the
reorganization of the Departments of the Nati-nal Treasury
Directorate; (iv) equipment, including micro-computers;
(v) training of appropriate staff of the Ministzy in operations
and maintenance of equipment; and (vi) two master level training
fellowships in economics.
23.       Budgeting (USS1.4 million).  The National Budget Directorate
will be assigned primary responsibility for implementing this sub-
component. Specific activities are as follows:
1/ Figures in parentheses include contingencies.



- 17 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 14
(a)  Immediate and Short-Term Performance Requirements.  Two long-
term advisor (72 person months) would be financed to assist the
National Director and his senior staff to establish and operate
the Central Technical Project Unit (CTPU) dedicated to the
selection, development, and evaluation of investment projects.
CTPU would have responsibility for physical and financial
monitoring of projects and investment programming and would be
fully operational when its staff is assigned and its functions
formally established. Funds would also be made available to
hire short-term consultants (23 person months) to carry-out
specialized studies or ad hoc assignments related to the
functions of CTPU; and
(b) Restore Technical and Administrative Capacity to the Ministry.
Staff of the Directorate would be trained through ad hoc courses
at Eduardo Mondlane University in the public finance area or
through two post-graduate level fellowships abroad. Some
equipment, including micro-computers, would be made available,
as would training of appropriate staff in operations and
maintenance.
24.       Accounting Training in State-Owned Enterprises and Other
Priority Public Sector Agencies (US$1.3 million). Responsibility for
implementing this element of the project will be assigned to the Tax and
Audit Directorate and would entail an intensive program in accountancy
training especially for public sector and SOE financial staff. It is
anticipated that approximately 500 lower, mid-level, and higher level
public sector and SOE employees will be trained under the auspices of this
program. Fields of study would be mainly in the areas of statistics,
business administration, financial analysis, general and financial
accounting, cost accounting, financial planning, and corporate
performance/planning. Instruction would be provided by a firm of
consultants, which would phase in Mozambican instructors, from the
university and other local training institutions, during the project
implementation period. Support for the training of trainers and local
curriculum development would be incorporated as part of the program. The
project would finance the preparation of the courses, their delivery over a
five-year period, the training of trainers, and the equipment and material
needed for the training sessions.
Bank of Mozambique Component
25.       Economic Analysis and Policy Formulation and Documentation
(US$2.4 million). The Economic Research Department would be assigned
responsibility for this sub-component. Activities directed toward meeting
project objectives are as follows:
(a) Immediate and Short-Term Performance Requirements. The services
of the Economic Advisor for the duration of the project. The
advisor would: (i) assist in economic analysis and policy
formulation; (ii) review the statistics and research needs of
BOM; (iii) prepare a three year action-plan including the



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 14
organizational strengthening of the Department and work programs
to carry it out; and (iv) advise the Directur of the Department
and other Senior officials on research or policy matters that
might arise. The work of the advisor would be supplemented by
short-term consultants (15 person months) who would be hired to
undertake specific studies in the areas of monetary and
financial analysis and policy or to provide other specialized
services; and
(b) Restore Technical Capacity. Staff of the Department would be
trained at the masters level in economics and policy studies (2
each) at the Eduardo Mondlane University or, if such courses are
not offered locally, financing would be provided for studying
abroad. Funds would also be included to organize relevant
specialized short-courses (e.g., project analyses) in Maputo for
staff of the Department and other government institutions.
Further, a Documentation Center (US$1.4 million) would be
established to serve the needs of BOM and related institutions.
To that end, BOM would hire three additional technical staff and
refurbish suitable space within BOM. Assistance would be
provided under the proposed project for a documentation
specialist for a period of three years; short term consultancies
(about 18 person months); training of staff at documentation
centers and libraries abroad; equipment (including copying
machines, micro-fiche readers and machines, air-conditioners and
a vehicle), books, periodicals, journals and other publications.
Any additional computer equipment needed by the Department would
be procured and financed under the larger computerization
program discussed in paras. 27-28. The center will bring
together in one place: (i) studies produced in Mozambique and
abroad in the fields of monetary, financial, and foreign
exchange policy; (ii) reports and studies of the activities of
central banks, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa; and (iii)
reports on experience in various countries with structural
adjustment programs, as well as general and specific studies of
the Mozambican economy and its various sectors. Such studies,
reviews, reports, periodicals and books would be catalogued,
circulated and stored in the center. There would be reading
room for staff of BOM and other organizations, including
researchers from the university.
26.       Banking Operations (US$14.8 million).  Responsibility for this
component will be retained by BOM's Administrative Manager, assisted by a
long-term residential advisor who should be an expert on banking operations
with a strong background in computerization and information systems (36
person months). The primary purpose of this sub-component is to restore
the technical capacity and improve BOM's operations. The list of equipment
to be financed under the project includes accounting machines, calculators,
typewriters, radios, and vehicles, including four wheel drive for the
branches, saloon cars for Maputo, and armored cars for transport of
currency to and from branches and head office.



- 19 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 14
27.       In addition to the procurement of the equipment and vehicles
outlined above, this sub-component includes the design of an appropriate
operation and information system to be computerized, and procurement and
installation of hardware (including back-up machines) and software
sufficient to enable BOM to operate the new, more sophisticated chart of
accounts developed with the help of the IMF (US$10.2 million). Although
this requirement is urgent, the procurement of a sufficiently comprehensive
computer system will be costly and its proper installation will be slow.
Therefore, implementation of the computer system element of the project
will be carried out in phases and with substantial long term technical
assistance.
28.       The first phase (financed under the PPF) consists of a
diagnostic assessment and the design of the computerized system. That
design has given full consideration to BOM's special needs, the
circumstances prevailing in the country, and the costs and benefits of
technically feasible alternative configurations. Further, it includes the
preparation of detailed specifications for hardware and software, as well
as bidding documents. During the second phase, BOM, with the help of
consultants, will install part of the equipment and the software at
headquarters and train the staff in its use (the IMF will assist in
training the accounting staff in the implementation of the new chart ef
accounts). Initially, BOM intends to keep its present accounting system in
parallel with the new computerized system to safeguard against the risk
that, at least intermittently, technical problems might occasionally cause
the system to go out of service. Finally, during the third phase, the
computer system will gradually be extended to all of the key operational
areas.
29.       Legal Advisory Services (US$0.8 million).  Support will be
provided to BOM's Legal Department to strengthen its capacity and
efficiency in handling an ever growing number of requests to provide legal
advice to all departments including requests in relation to complex matters
of international finance. To respond to immediate short-term requirements,
four person months of consultancy services will be provided on matters that
require specialized expertise. Other support will be directed to
strengthen the Legal Department's overall capacity, namely: (i) six person
months of outside legal advisors and professors to conduct training
seminars on legal/international banking issues, which would be open to
other lawyers within the public sector in pertinent areas; (ii) two long-
term fellowships for lawyers to complete their legal studies, abroad or at
Eduardo Mondlane University; (iii) short-term training for three qualified
lawyers on topics such as banking operations and donor negotiations at
specialized post-graduate legal training institutions; and (iv) short-term
training for two para-legal staff. In addition, the project will finance
the computer equipment to be used for processing standard legal texts and
for compiling legal reference data on banking regulations in Mozambique.
This equipment will be installed in a manner consistent with BOM's overall
computerization plan. Other materials (books, journals, periodicals, etc.)
needed by the Legal Department will be included in the purchases by the
Documentation Center.



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 14
Training for Computer operations and Maintenance
30.       In order to ensure that the large investment in information
technology (computers, peripherals, and software) is efficiently and
effectively utilized, considerable attention will be given to developing
capacity to correctly operate it and provide effective maintenance (in
particular, preventive maintenance). The principal method for achieving
those objectives will be to include in both equipment sales and service
contracts the requirement to provide on-the-job training to appropriate
staff of MOF and BOM during the first three years after purchase or initial
service of the equipment. In-house systems analysis and maintenance
capability should also be developed through training. The banking
operations systems analyst will be expected to provide this training on an
in-house basis.
Project Organization and Management Component (US$0.9 million)
31.       The proposed project would be jointly implemented by BOM and
MOF. Overview of the project will be provided by the coordinator in charge
of BOM component who will serve as the focal point for interfacing with
IDA. Two Proiect Coordinators, designated one within BOM and the other
within MOF, will be supported by a Project Coordination Assistant (36
months), attached to BOM Coordinator, who will assist in day-to-day project
administration (accounts, procurement, etc.) within each organization.
Management Committees, as described below, will oversee the various sub-
components being managed by department heads, as well as serving a
management development and integration function. Day-to-day implementation
of the different sub-components would be the responsibility of the head of
the respective department who would direct activities, manage and supervise
the work of advisors and consultants, arrange for training of the staff and
procure equipment. Assurances to these arrangements ware obtained during
negotiations. The following sets out the specific responsibilities of the
various bodies:
Project Coordinators
32.       Project Coordinators, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA have been appointed among the high-level staff of BOM and
MOF as responsible officers for the overall management of each of the two
main components of the project. In order to undertake effective inter-
agency coordination, Project Coordinators will meet on a regular basis to
review progress in the execution of project activities and to make policy
decisions pertaining to project implementation.
Proiect Coordinators shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(a) working in close coordination with each other and jointly
ensuring that execution of activities is consistent with the
objectives of the project;



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 14
(b) ensuring the preparation and review of action-plan and annual
work programs for each component to be carried out under the
project, and submitting them to IDA for their approval;
(c) supervising the implementation of all actions involving
procurement of goods and services under the project;
(d) ensuring the preparation of quarterly progress reports in the
format agreed to jointly forwarding them to the Association; and
(e)  preparing and carrying out annual project implementation and
mid-term reviews.
Proiect Coordination Assistant
33.       In discharging their responsibilities, the Proiect Coordinators
shall be assisted by a Project Coordination Assistant, with qualifications
and extensive managerial experience acceptable to IDA. This person shall
be employed on a full-time basis and report directly to the Project
Coordinator at BOM, where he/she will be located.
34.       The Proiect Coordination Assistant shall be responsible, inter
alia for the following:
(a) assisting the Project Coordinators in the coordination of all
project activities within the government agencies responsible
for project implementation;
(b) providing technical and administrative assistance to the Project
Coordinators in the final preparation of all project
documentation;
(c) as a member of the Management Committees providing assistance to
all BOM and MOF managers responsible for the implementation of
project sub-components in discharging their responsibilities
under the project, and meeting regularly with the respective
Management Committees;
(d) preparing and reviewing unified progress reports to be
considered by Project Coordinators and discussed at the annual
project review, including an assessment of each project
component and an identification of any current issues which may
interfere with timely project implementation;
(e) participating in the selection and appointment of consultants to
be employed under the Project, and providing them with initial
orientation;
(f) reviewing technical studies and reports prepared by such
consultants and providing comments to respective sub-component
managers;



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 14
(g) ensuring appropriate compilation and maintenance of project
documentation or files and assisting Project Coordinators in
keeping financial accounts for all project components as
required by the Association;
(h) reviewing procurement arrangements for project implementation,
including packaging procurement lots for equipment, computer
systems, hardware and software, printed material and office
supplies to be financed under the project;
(i) assisting in the review of bids for international and local
competitive bidding and international or local shopping; and
(j) assisting in the direction and coordination of the management
training programs for the staff responsible for project
management.
Management Committees
35.       Building on the work already started in BOM and designed to
develop administrative and managerial capacity, the project should enable
greater managerial integration of both BOM and MOF. Under the leadership
of department heads responsible for project sub-components, a Management
Committee will be established in each agency. These committees will
consist of: the component Coordinator as chairman, the Managers of the
pertinent project sub-component and the Project Coordination Assistant.
Other officials may participate in the Committee meetings as required.
36.       The functions of the Management Committees are as follows:
(a) review the annual work program for each project sub-component as
proposed by the sub-component manager;
(b) provide advice to the sub-component manager on matters
pertaining to the execution of the sub-component; and
(c) review progress reports prepared by the sub-component manager,
as required.
37.       The composition of the Management Committees will contribute to
both lateral and vertical integration. Cross participation in these
committees by BOM and MOF will allow information on the project to flow in
both directions, as well as enabling the Project Coordinators to be
informed of project progress and problems in execution. The functioning of
these committees will be supported by the Project Coordination Assistant
and trainers as needed, both in terms of expediting operations and in
improving the managerial skills of its members and of the team as a whole.
Training seminars will be held to improve the management skills of
committee members. Within each component, there is provision for the
required consulting assistance for the design and implementation of such
training which would cover organizational planning and management



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 14
techniques. This includes the services of trainers with the necessary
specialized skills for that purpose and to train Mozambican trainers.
B. Proiect Administration and Implementation
38.       Implementation Plan.  Implementation of the components would
follow the sequence set out in Schedule 1. Project implementation started
with the appointment of the Project Coordinators, so as to allow timely
compliance with all conditions of effectiveness and expedient project
initiation.
39.       Annual Work Programs.  The departments responsible for
implementation of the various project sub-components under the guidance of
the respective Project Coordinator and the advice of the respective
Management Committee and with the technical support of hired consultants
will prepare annual work programs. Work programs will be consistent with
the framework of their respective action plan and will be submitted for
approval by IDA. The preparation of work programs described above would
also be an important element of the strategy for developing sustainable
management capacity within MOF and BOM.
40.       Procurement.  The goods and services to be financed under the
proposed project would be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDS as summarized in Schedule B of the Memorandum of the President.
Training as well as long term advisory and short term consultancy services
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Computer
equipment for BOM, as well as other equipment estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 equivalent, will be procured through international competitive
bidding; purchase of vehicles and equipment costing less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$1.500,000 equivalent may
be procured under International or Local shopping. Equipment contracts in
excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior approval.
Spare parts, proprietory supplies, books and periodicals for BOM'S
Documentation Center would be purchased directly from suppliers on the
basis of lists to be prepared by BOM and approved by IDA.
41.       Disbursement.  In line with the average disbursement profile for
technical assistance projects in the Africa Region, the proposed credit is
projected to be disbursed in seven years. Disbursements would be made
against full supporting documentation except that statement of expenditures
would be used for expenditures relating to equipment contracts of $10,000
or less, and other contracts, including training, valued at less than
$20,000 equivalent.
42.       Special Account.  To help expedite implementation, the
Government would establish two Special Accounts at commercial banks, one
for BOM and one for MOF. After effectiveness, allocations of UStOO,OOO
and US$600,000 would be made to the MOF and BOM accounts respectively,
which would be operated on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. To the
extent possible, all eligible payments would be made from these accounts,



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 14
although other withdrawal procedures could be used for large payments.
Replenishment applications documenting expenditures from these accounts
would be submitted on a monthly basis, promptly after receipt of the
monthly statement of account, and applications would be accompanied by
appropriate supporting documents.
43.       Proiect Preparation Facility Advance.  PPF advances totalling
US$1,267,000 were approved in November 1986 and May 1989 to finance the
prep&  tion of the proposed project and to provide immediate assistance.
The PPF advance wilt. be refinanced under the proposed credit upon credit
effectiveness.
44.       Accounts and Audits.  BOM will establish a consolidated project
account as well as separate subsidiary accounts for the sub-components that
it will implement; MOF will also establish separate subsidiary accounts for
its sub-components. Accounts will be kept in accordance with accepted
accounting principles and will record all project expenditures,
commitments, reimbursements and status of project funds. The project
accounts, including the Special Accounts, will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles and in such detail as IDA may request. This includes a separate
paragraph in the auditor's opinion concerning amounts withdrawn on the
basis of statement of expenditures. Audited accounts will be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
45.       Reporting and Monitoring and Implementation Reviews.  The
Project Coordinator for BOM will prepare and submit to IDA quarterly
reports on the progress of project implementation based on information
supplied by the departments responsible for implementation of the various
project sub-components. These reports will provide the basis for annual
and mid-term implementation reviews. In addition, the Project Coordinator
for BOM will prepare and submit to IDA consolidated annual progress reports
and a project completion report at the end of the proposed project.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Schedule 1
Pag 1 of 2
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
-----------------------------------
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
----_------_-__--_-_--_------------_----------------------__--
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1989                          11                   1990
------------------------------------ _1 -----------------------------------
PJ  F  M   A   M  J   J  A   S  O   N   i IIJ  F  M   A   U  J  J  A   S  O   N  Dl
I------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION                 I  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I   Ii   |  I  |  I  I   |  |  |  |  I  I  I
- Appointment of Projoet Coordinators                   II       I                  I  I   I             I  I  I  I   I
- Contract Project Coordinator Assiatanti   I  I   I  I  I    I  I  I    I   l                           I  I    I       I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
-Establish Monagme nt Co. itteIs                                      I  I    I    i   I  IIi                I  I        I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
=Conduct Yearly Project Re.viewe                                    I  I        I   I  I   I  I il       I     I      lIIi           I  I  lX  lI
il                                              I
Iii 
Iii 
iji                                            j,
XIi
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii 
------------------------ I-                                 -------------------------I
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                                     li    lI   l            I    ll    l                                      i ll  il
_________________                        j  ;I        I        II  II                 I IIIIII I I  I  I  I    I                    Ii i I
Economic Analycle/Pollcy Formulation                  i  I  I  i  i  l  I  l  I  I  l  I   ll   I  I  I  I                         I   I     i  i l
- Revise and Update Action Plon                                                             I I    I   l     I   I  lxii    I  lIii    II
- Prepare Annual Work Program                                                         I       IX l  il   I  I   I  I         I  IIi  I l  l    I
- Contract Long-T.rm Advisor                                                                I  I  ii   I  I   l  I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Recruit Short-Term Advisors                                                               I i  I  I  I    Il I  I  I    I    l I I  I    I  I
- Propose Procurement of Equipment                               II  I  IIX  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Prep. Traln. Plans/Select Participantel                    I  I  I  I  I              I   I  I  lix  I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Budgeting                                             I     I  I i    I i         l  l 'i     I I  I Ii   I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
_ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ _                              I  I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   II   I   I   I   I      I  I  I    I  I   I  i  I
- Prep. Deosign/TOR for Techn. Proj. Unit[  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I   I  lx ll   I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Establish the Technical  Project Unit   I  I  I                                       I I  I  I   I  I  I              I ix  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Prepare  Annual Work Program                       1  l   '        I  I   I  I  II I   l  l   lX                       i       I  I  I  I  I  I
- Contract Long-Term Advisor                                                                              I  I   lx   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I I
- Recruit Short-Term  Advisors                                                                            I l  l  I   I          I l  I  I       I I  I  Ii   l  I    l    l   l    l   l   l   l
- Propose Procurement of Equipment                                                       I          l  ix  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Prepare Training Plans                                                           I                          I I I ll   I  I  I IX  I l l     l
Accounting In SOEs and Other Agencies                 I  |  |  |   I  I   i  I  I  I  I  I   II   |  i   I  I  I  I   l  I  I  l  i  l
-Revise Troaining Proposal/Schodule                                    I I  IXI     I                     I    I  I         I I  I  I       I I  I
-Invite Tndere for Training Firm                                                                         I  ixi     I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
--------------… … … … … … … … … …-I



-26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
THE PEOPLV'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANADEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
IJ F M A M J1 J A 5 0 N D IIJ F U A M J1 J A S 0 N Di
-   --------…----------                                                                                       -
Economic Analysis/Policy Formulation          IIII             IIIIIIIi                                                        
-:R_e_vise and Updat. Action Plan             li            1     11       1        xi  1      11I1I1I111I
-Prepare Annual Work Program                                 I I      IIII         IXIiI  I  I  I  I  I    I  I  I   I  I
- Contract Long-Term Advisor                    IIIl             i     ii      1     1111          I xI I    I  I  I  II  I
- Recruit Shart-TrermAdvisorsIIIIIIIIIII  I  lix   I  I  I                                                I  I  I    I    I  I
- Propose Procuremsnt of Equipment                         I  I  I  I                  i I  I  I  I  I  I  I    I  Ii
- Proepre Training Plans                                        I I        IIII          ilxi I  I  I    I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Document.ation Center                          IIIIIIIIIIIII                                                                    
- Revise and Update Action Plan              III           IIIIII  I  iXil1  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Prpepres Annual Work Program                               I  I I      iII        ixi       I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Select and Appoint NowStaff                              I  I  I I  I  t      I  I IIIIt         I  I  I  I  I I       I  I  I
- Contract Long-Term Advisor                 IIIIIIIII  I  I I   II    I  Ix Ii   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Compiete lot. Phase Office Renovationl   I                            IIii i                I  I I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Propose Proc. Equip./Library Material IIIIIIIIII                               I  IlxIX   I    I  I  I1I11I1II1I1
- Proear* Training Plans                               I        I    I  I  I  I  I  iix I  II  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Banking Operations                                                                     i                                       
-De lgnateO ffic. space                                      I I      IIIi         ixi    I    I  I    I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
HM rCounterpart Staff                                       I  I I                  xi I1    I  I  I    I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
-Conclude PPF Training Activities              I11          11        1           I1 I        IIIIIII                     III
-Contract Long-Term Advisor                  ii           1    1            I    I1              x.                   
Computer System:I                                           Iiix                                      III
- Review Bid DocumentsII                                          IIII1 IIIIII                                    IIIII
I Intiate Tenders for Hardsare/Softworel  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1' 11  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
-Initiate Tenders for Technical Asesit.1  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  IX ii  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
-Select Suppler/Procure Equipmsnt           I                                         iIiI  I  ix I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Select Provider IoI TI Ihn c                                      I  Issist.iI  I  IX I  I  I  I  I  II
--   - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -      - - - - -------- --  - -- - -- -
Legal Advisory Servic..IIIIiiIi                                                   sIIii                                        
- Prpepre,Action Pian                         I                                        IIII  IX I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
- Prepare Annual Work Program                   I11          1     1     l    i          1 1         ix II I lIIi  III
- Recruit Short-Term Advisors                 I                                        iIIIII I ilx I  I  I  I
- Prpepare Training Plan.s                                              1     11      I                        I  lx I  I  I  I
16-Aug-89



- 27 -
Annex 1
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIqUE                           Sch dule 2
ECONOMIC AND fINANCIAL MANAGEMiENT TEChNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TRAINING SUMMARY
lOBneficiarylProject Sub-Componentl      Typo of Training           Place of Training  I             Comeonts
ministry  lEconomic Analysis andlEquipeent operations/meint.  IOn-the-job                                              I
lof Finance IP.licy Formulation   I                              I
I  (MOF)                          12 MA In Economics             lEduardo Mondlone U.  IProferonce will be givon to *
I(MOF staff)          I                              lor university abroad Icountry training/ad-hoc faculty I
IEconomic Analysis            IOn-the-Job            IShort term consultants to asaistl
… … … I                       I                      land provide ttaining
l ~ ~ ~   - - - -- - - - - - -   I----------------------------- I--------------------- I----------------------____ ______ _____
Budgoting            IPublic Flnonce (Budgeting,   lEduardo Mondlane U.  IPreforonce sill be given to       I
I                     IFinonclIl Mgst , Govt. Acct.)l                      Icountry training/ad-hoc faculty I
1           1                     1(2 postgroduate fellowships/ I                       I
I                     I      ad-hoc courses)         I                     I
I(N.B. Oirectorate    I                              I                     I
I  I   staff)         lEquips nt operations/maint.  IOn-the-job            I
IAecounting In Stat.- IStatistics, Business Admin., IMinistry of Finance  15BB lower, mid, higher level PS/I
IOwned Enterprises    IFinancisl Analysis, Cenernl/ I                      ISOE employees to be trained by  I
I           * end other priority   iFn. and Cost Accounting,    I                       Iconsultants' firm, which would  I
I           Ipublic sector        iFn. Planning, Corporat        I                      phase In Moazabican instructors I
I           lagoncies             lPerformance Planningt                               Iwithin a 6-year poriod           I
I  Bank of  IEconomlc Analysis    12 MA In Economics             lEduardo Mondiane U.  Preference will be given to       I
IMoxambique 1 Policy Formulation 12 MA In Policy Studie.         or university abroad Icountry training/ad-hoc faculty I
I  (SOM)    I                     I                              I                      I                                I
;           I(E.S. Department     IProjiet Analysis/Formulation ILocol                  IShort-term training             I
I  I   staff)         I                              I                      I
I           I                      lLibrary Science              iDocumentatton CenterslShort-term apprenticeships       I
!           I                     I                              land librories abroad I                                 I
… … …    …~         ~~I----------------I …             …      … I…------------- --------I  ------
ICoaputeriszd 8anking IComputor Operationo/Mtnce.   IOn-the-Job             IRequirement to provide training I
I    Operations       I(dovelopment of In-house      I                      Ito be Included In equipment     I
I  I  (BOM staff)     I systems analysis and         IIsaslea/service contracts, during I
I                     I  lmaintenance capability)    I                     Ifirst 8 years.  Also, IMF to    I
i           I                      I                             I                      alssist accounting staff to
l   l  I                      I                      limplement the ne  chart of      I
I                     I                              I |olaccounts                                           I
I           Ilanking Oporations   ISpecific skills to oporet.   IOn-the-job and         ITraining to be provided by
I           I       Skills        leach of the oporational       Iclassroom             lspecialixed training consulting I
I           I     (BOM staff)     Isystem  of SOM                I                      IfirI
I           I------------I ……                            …    … ------------I…-------------I …--- ---- ---------------…  I
I           lLegal Advisory        ISeminars on legal Inter-     ILocal, outside        ISeminare would be open to other I
i           I  Services           Inational banking issues.       legal advisors        lnawyers within the public       I
I   I                 I                              lprofessors           Isector and academia              I
I  I                     ~~~~~~~~I                      I                      I
|           I                     12 Fellowships                 lAt Eduardo Mondian. UlLong-term, Intended for lawyers I
I                     I                              b lor abroad          Ito complete their low studies.  I
I                     I ||                                      I           Preference will be givon te o
I           I                     II                                                    Icountry training/ed-hoc faculty i
I  I              I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I II
I |Bl6anking operations and donor iSpecialized post-    IThre  months for three qualIfIodI
inegotiations                  graduato legol        lanwyoer
I  I  I                       Itraining instituts                                     I
I  I                     ~~~~~~~~I                      I                      II
I           I                      IPara-legal                   ILocal                 IShort term training for two paral
I  I                  I                              I                      Ipara-legal staff (3 months each)I
I  I                  I                              I                     lun legal research/drafting       I
I  I                  I                              I                      itechniques                      I
I---------I         --------------I-----------------I-- - --……  -----I …----- --…-----I
IMOF/BOM    IAII                  lianagement                    IOn-the-job            ITreining seminars and workshops I
I             WI(Mnaneznt          I                             I                      consultants coordinated by th   I
I Comittees)          I                                                     Proj ect Coordinator Assistant   I
I …    … …__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _--   - ---  -      - ------------------------------------…--…-___ _ _ _ _ _----…



R0.COO            *e    ......3...                                                                                                          4                      4
M00imb.. d. Prai.
S  0t os.o     )             \             S          NIASSA                  ; /G=   
{ _         t       \             )                       )   fl              l             (~~HING   PEMBA
V 'ALAWI  1
LILONGWE \\
Z A M B I A                                                                                                                                                    4
t<,f .Mi  Nac 0NaMal
-        F       lnoe  /) \  '  =Mo,ambique
160                    0 Mag.                                                                  E     t16
orongosa   J                                                                       m
Z  H MBARARWE                tNicui L 
ZIMBABWE                                                       r
8S..    ngaX                  j
20                                                       B- t     BEIRA
200/                                           /r            Bz                                                                                                         20Q
24Q-
) ,/' \   \                                                 ~~~~~~~MOZAMBIQUE
ApurT                                                                    MAJOR LANGUAGES
S  AZILAND                                                Nova                                      LANGUAGES:  INHABITANTS:
>   /     /                }       >      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-mbone                      MhAKUA-CHWABO   t 5,0DD,OW
Bela 0 / <    0lN h8O                                                   '100                      2 2° 003 KO                E
22          /0                                                               Vi .. OVInulos           THE TOTAL NATIONAL POPULA TION [S 13,000,000 AS OF:1982
\       G A  Z             \z\=                                                        EARTH ROADS
, > , D k 2 > . . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROA^DS
8   f   l  R  ~~~~~~~~~~~)   J ~~~~OTHER Al RPORTS
MBABANE     v~~IstaABAERVRS  OT
2o4                                    .               34                          6                           0                       4                          42 I  SWAMPS
24   e   Mass Xg:r \,   j   |                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAP-TALS            2°
S 0 U T H \ XhGulja y 69 ~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITALS
A F R I C A            144<>                         <     ulssico                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
!  iMa su e             f                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'  sJ  g\,9  \        XAI-XAI
26'                              MJAPUTO
S 9AZILAN                                       >
/   ) BeIa n   ~~~~~~~~~~~/.b~~~~   orr_ ~~~~0                                   1D0          200          300 KILOMETERS            _
/MABANE,        it                          ~       ~       ~       ~      ~              ~      !..s
o 0 \r34'                 36'                        38°                       40'                        42'      O



