DOCUMENTS|
CREDIT NUMBER 2066 )OZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Econoaic and Financial Manag.eent
Technical Assistance Project)'
between
PEOP1E'S REPUBLIC OF NOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                ,198
-



CREDIT NUMBER 2066 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Avzervl     , J           , 1989, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project deseribed in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The OGeneral Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements' of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term:
(a) "BOMH means Banco de Mocambiiue, the Central Bank of the
Borrower;
(b). "MOF" means the Ministry.of Finance of the Borrower;
(c)  "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)  "Profect Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advancas granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
9                                                    3



- 2-
to an exchange of letters dated August 9, 1986, and November 7,
1986; and March 10, 1989 and April 21, 1989 between the Borrower
and the Association;
(e) 'Central Technical Project Unit' or 'CTPU" means the
unit established within the National Budget Directorate of MOF as
set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(f) "fiscal year" or "FYI means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an am*ut-Ain_-v%r1Dus, currencies
equivalent to sixteen million five hundrerd hthauman4 Spec.ial
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount o' the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special accounts in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(i)  Special Account A shall be opened for the purposes
of Parts A; C (1) (a); C (2) (a); and C (3) (a) of
the Project; and
(ii)  Special Account B shall be opened for the purposes
of Parts B; C (1) (b); C (2) (b); and C (3) (b) of
the Project.
Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Accounts A and B shall
be made in accordance with the Rrovisions of Schedule 4 and 5,
respectively, to this Agreement.



-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not te exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1X) per annum.
(b)  The commitment charge shall accru& -(tQ--frou kh    dats C
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (tbe accxuVldazte) to
the respective dates. on which amounts shall .e vwtai@ftf b;v the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 itmediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1X) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
- payable semiannually on Harch 15 and September 15 in each year.
9
-                      .                                                    -



-4
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing March 15, 2000 and ending September 15, 2029. Each
installnert to and including the itistallment payable on
September 15, 2009 shall be one percent (11) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2X)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by then of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay-  Is¢A t1e amount of each
such installment not yet due until the prineipsla"amQuntt of the
Credit shall have been repaid. ff- z4ateWuested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification- toa ihi.e-,    -n-Iteu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE ITI
,Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (e) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this



-5-
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic and financial managerial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otharwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall implement the accounting
training program referred to in Part-*1^(3) -in accordance with a-
timetable agreed with the Association.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out Part B (2) (a)
of the Project, the Borrower shall install and operate the
computerized system on terms and within a timetable agreed with
the Association, and to be updated, if necessary, as provided in
Section 3.05 (a) (iii) hereinafter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than November 30, 1990, and not later than
November 30, of each year thereafter, until the completion of the
Project, conduct with the Association an annual Project
implementation review to:
(i)  monitor progress in achieving Project objectives;
(ii)  exchange information among staff responsible for
Project implementation and propose solutions to any
current probfems; and
(iii)  update Project timetables and cost estimates; and
(b) promptly thereaf tr, carry out those recommendations
arising out of said reviews as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.



-6-
Section 3.06. In order to facilitate the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall assign and retain qualified staff to
work closely with the consultants to be employed under Section II
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and to receive training from
them.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project continue to maintain in a form, with functions, and
staffing whose experience and qualifications are satisfactory to
the Association, as provided for in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4,
respectively, of Schedule 6 to this Agreement:
(a) MOF and BOM's Project Coordinators;
(b) the Project Coordination Assistant;
(c) the Management Committees; and
(d) CTPU,
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for
Special Accounts A and B for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and



-7-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shal'l from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withGraw-'s
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (ccntr    ,._orders, invoices,-_
bills, receipts and other documenta)i eidcntding
such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that as a result of events.jihich have occurred after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make-it improbable that MOF or BOM, as the
case may be, will be able ti perform their respective obligations
under said Agreement.       -



-8-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall hav3 been given by the Association to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Dote; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as: an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that a Project Coordination Assistant with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association has been selected
and contracted: (a) in accordance- with thevL.Jsp1pf Section
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and: (by wftb 0he,`fu4CtoLOhs
described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 6- ta.tt.-Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that this Agreement has been
duly ratified by the Borrower's Council of Ministers and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Goveritor of Banco de Mocambigue is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for th
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:            h
a                                                -
!                                                9



-9-
For the Borrower:
Banco de Ho;ambique
Departamento de RelaS6es Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Seteibro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Haputo
People's Republic of Hozambique
Cable address:                       Telex:
HOBANCO                          6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
Facsimile:
29718
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.V.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  2.8423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)



10-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America. as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /S/        &ffi           F
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL. DEYVE      }F'AS  OCt&T.Ic
By /5/ 6                   2       K
Pegional Vice    resien
Africa



. ii. -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amounv of the
Credit Allocated           X of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)      tq be Financed
(1)  Civil works               30,000         100X of foreign
under                                    expenditures
Part B (1) (e)
of the Project
(2)  Equipment,                               lO0    .  reiy,
vehicles,                                expenditures
computers,
software, and
supplies:
(a)  MOF                 200,000
(b)  BOM               3,800,000
(3)  Consultants'                             1001 of foreign
services                                 expenditures
including
audits:
(a)  MOF               1,100,000
(b)  BOM               5,400,000
I-



- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            X of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
-tgorv                   SDR Equivalent)       t_be. Financed
(4)  Training:                                 100l of foreign
expenditures
(a) MOF:
(i)  under                150,000
Parts A(1);
A(2); C(2)(a);
and C(3)(a)
of the Project;
(ii) under Part A(3)     650,009"-
of the Project;
(b) BOM:
under Parts B;    1,120,000
C(2)(b); and
C(3)(b) of
the Project
(5)  Operating                                 100l
costs:
(a)  MOF                   30,000
(b)  BOM                 410,000
(6)  Goods and                 110,000         1001 of foreign
services                                  expenditures
w.der Parts
A.2 (d), (e);
and (f) of
the Project
- -



- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           X of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                SDR Eguivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Refunding of           1,000,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                         suant to Section
tion Advance                             2.02 (c) of this
Agreement:
(8) Unallocated             2,500,000
TOTAL                 16,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:---
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" %&.VW e!xp*eniditures in
the currency of any country other than that cf the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "training" means costs of fellowships,
conferences, courses, study tours and training to be undertaken as
part of training and other related training costs to be financed
un&dr the Project; and
(c) the term 'operating costs' means costs of operation and
maintenance of equipment, vehicles and buildings used in the
execution of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to Llte date of this
Agreement;
(b)  expenditures under Category (4) (a) (ii):
(i)  unless the Association has received, for ts review
and approval, a proposal to carry out the account-
ing training prograt referred to in Part A (3) (a)
of the Project, irncluding a detailed budget and
implementation timetable; and



- 14 -
(ii) unless the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Borrower has defined:
(A) the eligibility conditions to enroll in the
accounting training program; and
(B) course accreditation and arrangements for
course facilities; and
(c) expenditures under Category (6); unless the Association
has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower has
taken all necessary measures to render CTPU operational, as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.



- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)  strengthen HOF and BOH's capabilities to carry out
technical analysis in the areas of economic policy formulation,
capital budgeting, and banking operations;
(b) define specific needs and prepare long-term programs of
institutional support to MOF and BOM;
(c)  increase the stock of qualified professionals in the
public sector in accounting and economic analysis; and
(d) increase productivity and effectiveness by furnishing
MOF and BOH with basic systems and equipment in the financi.av-
sector and the production of basic economic inib.i=attot.
The Project consists of the following p*trMsubJ48&'te`such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part      Strengthening the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
1.   National Treasury Directorate
Strengthening the capabilities of the Economic Analysis and
Price Department to improve the collection and analysis of
economic information:
(a) preparation of a three-year action plan and annual
work programs of economic analysis and policy work, including
organizational, staffing and training arrangements, detailed cost
estimates, budgets, and implementation arrangements;
(b)  carrying out studies on specific economic and financial
policy issues, including: reorganization of local capital markets
and the establishment of an appropriate interest rate structjure;
(c)  strengthening of the Statistics Department of the
National Tteasury Directorate;
(d) Zquisition of equipment, micro-computers and software;



- 16 -
(e) training of the staff of the Economic Analysis and Price
Department in operations and maintenance of computer systems;
(f) granting of fellowships to the staff of the Economic
Analysis and Price Department to undertake graduate university
training in economics, locally or abroad;
(g) review of the economic analysis function of the National
Treasury Directorate, including: information flows, economic and
financial analysis and economic policy recommendations;
(h)  on-the-job training of the staff of the Economic
Analysis and Price Department through ad-hoc courses; and,
(i) assistance in the reorganization and strengthening of
the Departments of the National Treasury Directorate.
2.   National Budget Directorate
Strengthening of the capital budgeting and control systems
through the establishment and operation of a Central Teci*4cj
Projects Unit (CTPU) within the National Budget Directorate:
(a) preparation of a three-year action plan and annual work
plans for CTPU;
(b) design and installation of a computerized project
monitoring system to assist in the monitoring of physical and
financial execution of investment projects;
(c) formulation of criteria and design of information
systems for selection, analysis, and monitoring investment
projects;
(d) granting of fellowships to train the staff of the
National Budget Directorate in public finance, budgeting,
financial management and government acCounting;
(e) acquisition of equipment, micro-computers and software;
and
(f) training of the staff of the National Budget Directorate
in operations and maintenance of computer systems.



- 17 -
3.   Tax and Audit Directorate:
Strengthening of the accounting system:
(a) design and implementation of an intensive accounting
training program for public sector and State Owned Enterprises
staff; and
(b)  acquisition of equipment and didactic materials to carry
out the accounting training program.
Part B: Strengthening the Bank of Mozambioup (BOM)
1.   Economic Research DeRartment
(a)  preparation of a three-year action plan and annual work
programs for the Economic Research Department;
(b)  carrying out studies on me-.tte i,&tWtfiianc.L aoytoa.-^
and policy issues, based on updated statist1daT! fnformation;
(c) granting of fellowships to the staff of the Economic
Research Department to obtain graduate university training in
economics and policy studies, locally and abroad;
(d) organization of specialized local training for BOM staff
in project analysis and formulation techniques;
(e) establishment, construction, equipping, furnishing and
acquisition of vehicles, printed materials and supplies for the
Documentation Center; and
(f) training abroad of the staff of the Documentation Center
in library science techniques.
2.   Banking Operations:
(a) design, installation, acquisition of hardware and
software for the operation and maintenance of a computerized
information system;
(b)  acquisition of equipment and vehicles;       a
Zc)  acquisition,     installation    and maintenance      of
commu4ication systems;



- 18 -
(d) training of operational staff zo operate and maintain
hardware, software and communications equipment; and
(e) training of technical and managerial staff in banking
operation systems.
3.   Legal DeRartment:
(a) training of the Legal Department staff in contract
negotiation and other legal aspects of banking operations;
(b)  granting of fellowships to legal advisors of BOM and
other governmental agencies to complete their legal studies
locally or abroad;
(c) organization of, and attendance to seminars on legal
international banking issues;
(d)  on-the-job training of legal -an*'                   int
legal research and drafting techniques; and
(e) acquisition of one microcomputer, software, books, legal
journals and materials.
Part C:   Project Management:
1.   Provision of assistance to strengthen planning and managerial
capabilities related to Project implementation within:
(a) MOF; and
(b) BOM.
2.   Carrying out workshops to strengthen the organizational and
managerial capabilities of the staff responsible for Project
management within:
(a) MOF; and
(b)  BOM.
V



- 19 -
3.   Training of staff in organizational planning and management
techniques within:
(a) MOF; and
(b) BOM.
*     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
!



- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Progurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Internatnional Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures,
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for P'rocurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may gcart-a--arginm of"
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and--27%5 %C-the 4"44-Pi*is
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
Works under Part B(l)(e) of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   International or Local Shopping:
Items or groups of items estimated Lo cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
tooexceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be' procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.



- 21 -
3.   Direct Contracting:
(a) spare parts; (b) proprietory supplies; and (c) books and
periodicals under Parts B.1 (e) and B.2 (e) may be procured under
direct contracting, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards a.d final
contracts:
(a)  With respect to each contract estimated ',to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the orocedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guideline shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of Special
Accounts A and B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contraot -reA4d ,,Lto be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraphx .l(d)l -hall7.Obe
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the fIrse
payment out of Special Accounts A and B In --espect. of- -sauch
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of Special Accounts A and B, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15X is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
*                                                9



- 22 -
Section IL. Employent of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the 'Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
zI
9.                                                               3
.jS



- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A (MOF)
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) (a),
(3) (a), (4) (a), (5) (a), and (6) set forth in the tab]e in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures' means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of S^hedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" Deans'an amount equiva-
lent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from---t .C-Credit Act-outt and
deposited into Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account A shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocat4on. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into Special Account A
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenishment of Special Account X, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into Special Account A al such
intervals as the Association shall specify.9



-24
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shr.. furnish to the Association the
documents an   -her evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Accourt A such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of Special Account A for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
by the Association from the Credit Account ui:der
the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documenta-,4nd other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of SpVecfal
Account A, the B' rrower shall, at such time -as,- i.e-A-szecItton--
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditure3.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into Special Account A:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Sention 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditiols
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authqcized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall
follow such procedures a. the Association shall specify by no-' e
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only La -r
and to the extent that the Associatien shall bave been satisi.ed



that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any paym-:nt out of Special Account A: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into Special
Account A (or, if the Asstciation shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount ectu%l to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.          Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into Special Account A shal' be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Association shall hste' d6t6eturied a-t -any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to t1-e Association all cr any portion of the funds on deposit into
Special Account A.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellatior. in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
!



- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account B (BOX)
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b), and (5) (b) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term 'eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the-Caedtet Acsa-&      ,g;r p4,
deposited into Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Sch.:.dule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account B has beeu duly opened, withdrawals of the
butho,- zed Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Speeti&. Account A shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall,'oA behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into Special Account B
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For .replenishment of Special Account B, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into Special Account B at such
inteWals as the Association shall specify.



- 27
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
vithdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account B such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of Special Account B for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent.e.mounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents aud-other ekvidence.
4.   For each payment made by the 3oriGweT--:'Out-- of Special
Account B, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into Special Account B:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Ciredit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of. twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unw4thdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories3for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied



- 28 -
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account B as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into Special
Account B (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.          Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into Special Account B -shI&l1. iœA.jade until the-
Borrower has provided such evidence or made -such        'loosiit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amolint.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
Special Account B.
(d)  Refunds to the nssociation made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.



- 29
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
1.   Project Management
(a) The Minister of Finance and the Governor of BOM shall
respectively appoint among the high-level staff of MOF and BOM a
Project Coordinator with qualifications and oxperience acceptable
to the Association, as the    responsible officer for the overall
management of:
(i) Project Coordinator/MOF: Parts A; C (1) (a), C (2)
(a), and C (3) (a) of the Project; and
(ii)  Project Coordinator/BOM: Parts B; C (1) (b), C (2)
(b), and C (3) (b) -of the P4ej`ectx.
(b)  The Project Coordinators -sha1t b-rmiap4VgAb,le, inter
alia, for:
(i) working in close coordination, with each other and
jointly, ensuring that execution of activities is
consistent with the Project objectives set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(ii)  ensuring the preparation of the action plan and
annual work programs to be carried out under the
Project, and submitting them to the Association for
its approval;
(iii) supervising the implementation of procurement of
goods and services, as required by the Project;
(iv)  ensuring the preparation of quarterly progress
reports, as agreed with the Association; and
(v) preparing and carrying out the annual Project
implementation reviews pursuant to Sectlon 3.05 of
this Agreement.                         X
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (b)
above4 the Project Coc-dinator/BOM shall act as the foal point in
communicating to and agreeing with the Association on 'all matters
concerning the Project as a whole.



- 30 -
2.   Project Coordination Assistant (PCA)
(a) In discharging its responsibilities, the Project
Coordinators shall be assisted by a Project Coordination Assistant
with qualifications and extensive managerial experience acceptable
to the Association, who shall be employed on a full-time ba-is and
report directly to the Project Coordinator/BO0.
(b) The PCA shall be responsible,      inter alia for the
following:
(i)  assisting   the Project Coordinators       in the
coordination of all Project activities within the
government agencies responsible for Project imple-
mentation;
(ii)  providing technical and admini'steative assistancA
to the Project Coordinators in the final
preparation of all Project docum-intation;
(iii) providing assistance to all BOM and MOF managers
responsible for the implementation of Project sub-
components in discharging their responsibilities
under the Project and participating as a member of
the respective Management Committees, as herein-
after defined;
(iv) preparing and reviewing unified progress reports to
be considered by the Project Coordinators and
discussed at the annual Project review, (as
provided for in Section 3.05 of this Agreement),
including an assessment of each Project component
and an identification of any current issues which
may interfere with timely Project implementation;
(v) participating in the selection of consultants to be
employed under the Project, and providing them with
initial,orientation;
(vi) reviewing technical studies and reports prepared by
such consultants and providing comments to
respective sub-component manageis;
a
(vii)  keeping financial accounts      for all Project
components, and ensuring appropriate compilation
and maintenance of Project documentation or files;



- 31 -
(viii) reviewing procurement arrangements for Project
implementation, including packaging procurement
lots for equipment, computer systems, hardware and
software, printed material and office supplies to
be financed under the Project;
(ix) assisting in directing and coordinating the
management training programs for staff responsible
for Project management; and
(x) assisting in the review of bids for international
and local competitive bidding and international or
local shopping.
3.   Management Committees
(a) MOF
(i)  A Management     Committee    (MC/MOF)   shall be
established within MOF;.
(ii) The MC/MOF shall consist of:
-    the Project Coordinator/MOF (Chairperson);
-    the Manager of the respective Project sub-
component; and
-    the Project Coordination Assistant.
The Chairperson may also request the
attendance of other officials and experts
involved in Project implementation.
(iii) The MC/MOP shall be responsible for the following:
-    reviewing the annual work programs for each
Project sub-component to be carried out by
MOF;
£     -    advising the sub-component managers an matters
pertaining to the execution of the respective
sub-component; and                                        9
-0
-    reviewing progress and annual Project review
reports.
!



- 32 -
(b) BOM
(i) A Hanagement Committee (MC/BOM) shall be
established within BOM.
(ii)  The MC/BOM shall have the same composition as
described in paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of this Schedule,
and shall have the same responsibilities as
described in paragraph 3 (a) (iii) of this
Schedule.
Additionally, a Special Management Committee shall
be established within BOM on terms and with
functions agreed between the Borrower and the
Association. The Special Management Committee
shall be responsible for directing the work of the
sub-component described in Part B.2 of the Prcjec-t'
4.   Central Technical Proiect Unit (CTPU)-
CTPU to be established within the National Budget Directorate
of MOF shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) establishing criteria and assisting in the
preparation and evaluation of investment projects;
(ii) carrying out physical and financial monitoring of
projects; and
(iii) supporting in investment programming.
S



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I h:reby certify that the foregoing i¢'aL:u>o;y
of the original in the archives-ihg1 ernat@i ips
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY



