Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18044
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND ]FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2066-MOZ)
June 23, 1998
Macroeconomics 1
Economic Management and Social Policy
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =      Metical (MT); pl. Meticais
US$1                      =      715 MT'
US$1                      =      11,380 MT2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)               =     3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m sq.)    =     10.76 Square Feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM          Banco Comercial de Mo,ambique (Commercial Bank)
BOM          Bank of Mozambique
CDI          Centro de Documenta,co e Informacao (Documentation Center)
DEE          Departamento de Economia e Estatistica (Economic and Statistics
Department)
DNPO         Direc,co Nacional do Plano e Or,amento (National Directorate of Plan
and Budget)
ERP          Economic Rehabilitation Program
EFMTA        Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance Credit
FSCB         Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit
IDA          International Development Association
IFAC         International Federation of Accountants
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MPF          Ministry of Plan and Finance
PTIP         Three-Year Public Investment Plan
U7NDP        United Nations Development Program
UTCP         Unidade Tecnica Central de Projectos (Central Technical Project Unit)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER                       January 1 - December 31
Vice President                 Callisto Madavo
Director                       Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager                : Ataman Aksoy
Staff Member:                 : Carolina Machado, Task Manager
At Appraisal, July 1988
2 Current conversion rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2066-MOZ)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                 i-v
Part I:     Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Project Objectives                                            1
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives                             3
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  7
D.   Project Sustainability                                        8
E.   Bank Performance                                              8
F.    Borrower Performance                                         8
G.   Assessment of Outcome                                         9
H.   Future Operations                                             9
I.    Key Lessons Learned                                          9
Part II:    Statistical Annexes
Appendixes: A.   ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
B.   Borrower' Assessment of Implementation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(C]REDIT 2066-MOZ)
Preface
The Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance Project in
Mozambique --Credit 2066-MOZ in the amount of SDR 16.5 million (US$21.0 million
equivalent) -- assessed in this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was approved on
October 17, 1989, made effective on June 29, 1990, and closed on December 31, 1997,
the original closing date. In addition, a grace period of four months was granted through
April 30, 1998, to complete claims for expenditures incurred before the closing date.
When final disbursement took place on May 26, 1998, a balance of US$650,000/SDR
484,000 remained. It will be canceled.
Preparation having begun at the time of the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, from March 4-13, 1998, the ICR is based on materials in the project files,
discussions with Government officials associated with the project, and information
provided by the project coordinators. Additionally, the Borrower's comments in the form
of an Assessment of Project Implementation are included as Appendix B. The ICR was
prepared by Carolina Machado (AF 1 MI), and reviewed by Phyllis Pomerantz, Country
Director, AFC02 and Ataman Aksoy, Sector Manager, AFTM1.



IMPLEMENTATI[ON COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2066-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Among the earliest credits to be approved for Mozambique, the Economic and
Financial Management Technical Assistance Credit (EFMTA) was first identified in
November 1985 as a potential means of supporting the country's transition from a
centrally planned to a market economy by strengthening its management capacity with
up-to-date computer technology and skilled personnel. At the time, both were lacking,
and their absence represented a threat 1:o the successful .development of the Government's
reforms, the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP). As a very new member of the
Bank, Mozambique was at first unversed in its procedures, and Bank staff were largely
unfamiliar with the officials who would become interlocutors and implement the project.
Nevertheless, both sides recognized an urgent need to strengthen the capacity of the core
economic agencies, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Bank of Mozambique (BOM),
and the National Planning Commission to handle their new responsibilities in spurring an
overall shift of economic management from direct to indirect controls. Both Government
and IDA staff also recognized that manpower and technology shortcomings represented
serious obstacles in the public sector to progress toward a new economic regime.
2.    In view of the urgent nature of these problems, the EFMTA was at first designed
as a line of credit to be used according to agreed criteria so as to allow flexible and timely
responses to pressing Government needs in a number of areas. During a July 1986
mission, however, the concept evolved from a line of credit to a fully defined project for
which the Government requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. That
work led to IDA approval in October 1989 of a SDR 16.5 million (US$21 million)
technical assistance credit to underwrite training in economic analysis, budgeting, and
accounting for the Ministry of Finance and - in the Bank of Mozambique -- to
computerize banking operations, create an economic studies unit and documentation
center and build up (basically from scratch) legal advisory services.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objective of this project was to provide institutional support for key
decision-making agencies involved in the implementation of the Government's Economic
Rehabilitation Program (ERP). The project sought to increase the institutional capacity



:   :  :    X   :   ~~~ii:
of two priority government agencies, the Ministry of Finance, which later became the
Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF), and the Bank of Mozambique (BOM), to carry out
technical analyses in the areas of economic policy formulation, capital budgeting, and
banking operations; to increase the supply and the effectiveness of professionals qualified
to conduct economic analysis and accounting by furnishing them with training and with
the basic systems and equipment needed for their day-to-day operations. As the project
was implemented, in fact, the share of funds expended on systems and equipment -
mostly computer hardware and software - was approximately twice that dedicated to
training. (See Table 7A in Part II - Statistical Annexes)
4.    As a form of technical assistance rather than policy implementation, the project
did buttress the implementation of the Government's macro and sectoral reforms. Its
timing, moreover, proved appropriate as a complement to the dialogue that had been
started between the Government and the Bank on the need for economic reform even
under the extremely difficult conditions of an on-going civil war.
5.    The timing of implementation, however, was severely delayed despite the
emergency nature of the project. The first noticeable gap that ran from the time the
project was identified (end-1985) to credit approval (end-1989) was due to (a) delays in
preparing the computerization and accountancy training subcomponents; (b) difficulties
in hiring external consultants under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF); (c) changes in
Bank staff responsible for the project after the 1987 Bank Reorganization; (d)
deficiencies that the project design had underestimated in implementation capacity at the
two beneficiary institutions. All this led to a post appraisal in June 1988. During actual
implementation, moreover, coordination of and between the two beneficiary agencies and
among their divisions also proved difficult because of a lack of the necessary synergy.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Project Achievements. Despite the complexities of coordinating between the two
implementing agencies (BOM and MPF), the project essentially achieved its objectives.
It brought sophisticated computer technology into a central bank and its provincial branch
offices (Beira, Nampula) where previously outdated office equipment had been used to
record transactions. Some Bank staff initially feared that the computerization effort was
too ambitious in design. In practice, it has proved a success. The credit also underwrote
the training of approximately 500 accountants, mostly men and women working in the
private sector, through a system that has turned some trainees into trainers themselves.
Additionally, it helped impart crucial skills to about 45 technical specialists who have
become the core of the BOM's Department of Organization and Informatics. The staff of
the Department of Economic and Statistics (DEE), initially helped by an external
consultant financed by the project, have not only issued the country's first Statistical
Bulletin, but converted it from a quarterly publication to a monthly one in 1995. As an
indication of their sustainability, it is appropriate to note that the operations of the MPF's
Technical Project Unit and the work of the BOM's Documentation Unit are all receiving
continuing support under the 1994 IDA credit for financial-sector capacity building.



iii
7.    Training of BOM and MPF staff, which reached a larger number of beneficiaries
than originally planned, was a key component of the project successfully carried out by
visiting instructors whose method included teaching students to become local trainers.
Although in a technical assistance project it is difficult to really measure the impact of
outcomes, it can be said that the project has had a positive impact in:
* Institutional Strengthening through (a) establishing and helping maintain the
Ministry of Plan and Finance's technical unit (UTCP) to plan public
investment and budget administration, including the setting up and use of
information systems; (b) providing computerization at the Bank of
Mozambique and, before it was privatized, its commercial subsidiary; (c)
creating a Documentation Center at BOM for the use of BOM staff and the
general public; (d) strengthening the capacity of the BOM Legal Department
by promoting the hiring of qualified staff and providing incentives in terms of
additional training; (e) midwifing the Project Implementation Unit, which
trained BOM staff in matters of project execution, including procurement,
utilization of project proceeds, and general administrative matters.
- Capacity Building at the two institutions in the areas of economic analysis,
finance, accounting, banking.
8.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. As noted
above, the project experienced many delays during its first years. Credit effectiveness
was dependent on the hiring of an external consultant as General Project Coordinator, a
process that took longer than expected. Issues related to the salary and benefits of the
candidate delayed contract approval by IDA. Other factors in delaying project
implementation included (a) the effect of the civil war and of the language requirement in
shrinking the pool of international consultants to be recruited; (b) the unfamiliarity of the
Borrower, a relatively new Bank member, with the institution and its procedures; (c) the
division of responsibility between two implementing agencies, which at times made
coordination more complex and time consuming. That initial complication receded over
time as the system evolved and grew simpler, putting the BOM Coordinator and the
General Coordinator in charge of overall project execution. Fortunately, most of the
BOM and MPF managers in charge of project subcomponents were committed to project
objectives and took advantage of what the project had to offer in terms of training and
technical assistance.
9.    Disbursements. The project disbursed 97 percent of its funds, leaving a balance
of US$0.6 million equivalent. Estimates for the first years of the project had been overly
optimistic. Disbursements picked up speed especially in FY93, after the Mid-Term
Review in July 1992 and when most large contracts had been signed.



iv
10.   Project Sustainability. Technical assistance financed by the project helped
introduce new and more efficient procedures in both beneficiary institutions. These
management tools have been adopted and consistently used in: (a) the process of
computerizing the BOM with resulting improvements in efficiency; (b) the preparation of
the public investment program and budget administration at the Planning Directorate at
MOF by the UTCP; (c) the creation of a Documentation Center at BOM. These actions
are being supported by the ongoing Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB) project.
The project's support for training accountants has also acted as a catalyst to efforts by
Mozambicans to create a national Association of Accountants, a professional body that
could subsequently join the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Progress in
that area now depends on Government backing for the initiative.
11.   Bank Performance Although the Bank's performance has been largely
satisfactory, Bank staff could have shown greater sensitivity from the last appraisal of
the project through the first two years of its implementation to the problems arising from
a new Borrower's understandable lack of familiarity with Bank procedures. Over time
communications between the Bank and the Borrower improved considerably.
Supervision was done on a regular basis, providing adequate support to the Borrower.
12.   Borrower Performance was also satisfactory. Most individual coordinators were
sincerely committed to the project goals and related actions. BOM and MOF were
especially supportive of the computerization program and the creation of a technical unit,
respectively. The Borrower complied with the requirement of yearly audits of project
accounts, and audits were submitted on a timely basis and without qualifications.
Future Operations
13.   Although no follow-on project to this operation is envisioned, a number of
activities launched but unfinished under the Credit are being supported by the Financial
Sector Capacity Building (FSCB) Credit.
Lessons Learned for Subsequent Operations
14.   Project implementation teaches several broad key lessons and two narrow ones:
* Success in capacity building depends in large part on the commitment evinced by the
beneficiaries. This was evident in the BOM computerization; the creation and
implementation of the Technical Unit in the MOF Directorate of Plan; various
training actions. To generate that commitment from the start and insure the best level
of execution, borrowers should be actively involved in project preparation and design.



v
*  Technical assistant (TA) consultants should be required when they are selected to
commit themselves to transfer their own skills through on-the-job training. Skills
transfer was successfully achieved in the case of two main subcomponents: the
computerization at BOM and the creation of the UTCP at MPF.
*  The shorter the length and more limited the scope of a subproject (i.e. BOM
computerization) the faster will be the results and the easier to measure.
*  The Bank should value the IDFs which started in July 1992 as instruments available
to provide immediate, flexible resources to governments embarking on the initial
stages of reform which seeks to produce drastic change in the cultural and
institutional environment. In the case of this project a technical assistance credit was
sought because there was no other instrument available at the time.
*  In Mozambique, given the civil war being fought as the credit was launched, a more
realistic implementation timetable should have been set, especially in connection with
recruiting TA consultants.
-  Also in Mozambique, after the war ended, the improved political, economic, and
institutional environment had a positive effect on the project and on the Borrower's
increasing desire and ability to take advantage of the types of technical assistance
being offered.



PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives
1     The major purpose of the US$21 million IDA credit was to give two vital
institutions - the Ministry of Plan and Finance and the Bank of Mozambique - the
institutional strength and expertise to back up key decision-making agencies involved in
the implementing the then-Government's Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP).
Supported by IMF Structural Adjustment Facility and the first two IDA Rehabilitation
Credits, the ERP was a policy reform initiative meant to abolish economic distortions and
structural imbalances through measures to stabilize the fiscal and external situation,
establish a realistic foreign exchange value, and reduce administrative controls over
foreign exchange and trade management. The policy goals were clear. The institutions
vital to translating ERP priorities into reality, however, were weak. They required
strengthening both in the short and the long term.
2.    During the project design phase, the Government and IDA identified the area of
financial and statistical information as one needing the greatest attention, with
management training requiring almost as much assistance. Government officials at the
time saw the poor performance of public enterprises as the result of inexperienced and
weak management which they wished to correct through intensive training in accounting
and other management techniques. During a March 1986 mission the Government
indicated that it urgently needed help in the areas of statistics, economic research,
information systems, accounting, and management training. The institutions designated
for technical assistance were the Bank of Mozambique (BOM), the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and the National Planning Commission (CNP) which merged with the MOF into
the Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF) when the civil war ended and a newly elected
Government came to power.
3.    Based on the above perceptions, the project was designed to equip those two key
government institutions to function effectively and carry out the job of elaborating
reforns and to train the relevant government staff. Specifically, the project sought to
increase the institutional capacity of BOM and MPF to:
a) carry out technical analyses in the areas of economic policy formulation,
capital budgeting (including selection, analysis, programming, and monitoring
of projects), and banking operations;
b) define specific needs and prepare a program of institutional support as the
basis for immediate and long-term action;
c) increase the supply of qualified professional accountants and economic
analysts; and



2
d) increase the productivity and effectiveness of the two priority institutions, by
furnishing them with the basic systems and equipment needed for their day-to-
day operations, particularly in financial systems and production of basic
economic information. (Although this was only one of four elements in the
project design, it was the most expensive single area, with BOM equipment
costs absorbing roughly three fifths of the total credit.)
4.    The project was divided between two main components:
a) Assistance to the MPF to improve its collection and analysis of economic
information for economic policy formulation at the Economic Analysis and
Price Department in the National Treasury Directorate; to improve capital
budgeting at the National Budget Directorate; and to institute an accounting
training program.
b) Assistance to BOM to strengthen the Economic Research Department so as to
improve data collection, economic analysis, and policy formulation including
the establishment of a Documentation Center; to improve banking operations
by computerizing banking systems and introducing modem equipment; and to
strengthen the skills of the internal BOM legal staff, especially regarding
drafting of banking regulations and contract negotiations with creditors.
5.    As a form of technical assistance rather than policy implementation, the project
contributed important assets to the implementation of the Government's macro and
sectoral reforms. Its timing, moreover, proved appropriate as a complement to the
dialogue that had been started between the Government and the Bank on the need for
economic reform even under the extremely difficult conditions of an on-going civil war.
6.    Although meant to address certain urgent institutional capacity needs, however,
the project got off to a slow start. The time elapsed from the end of 1985 when those
needs were first identified until the credit was approved toward the end of 1989 hardly
corresponds to an emergency response. That loss of initial momentum can be explained
by delays in preparing the computerization and accountancy training components and by
difficulties in hiring external consultants to be financed under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). In addition, Bank staff initially associated with the project had left
following the 1987 Bank reorganization and the project had to undergo a post-appraisal in
June 1988.
7.    Another time-consuming problem arose out of the project's design. Structured to
fill specific short to medium term gaps in two separate beneficiary institutions, it proved
occasionally difficult to coordinate and create synergy between the activities of the two
components and their respective subcomponents. The project's design, moreover, did not
give enough consideration to the very problem it was meant to address - the enfeebled
implementation capacity of the two institutions.



3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    Project organization required a joint implementation effort from BOM and MPF,
with the BOM coordinator assigned responsibility both for general coordination and for
channeling communications with IDA. The two coordinators were supported by a Project
Coordinator Assistant (PCA), but responsibility for day-to-day implementation fell to the
heads of departments responsible for each project subcomponent, a multi-level division of
labor into management committees that only added complexity. At the time of appraisal
this complicated organizational arrangement was designed to develop administrative and
management capacity, with a view to greater managerial integration of both institutions.
The subsequent hiring of the PCA, as an external consultant and in accordance with Bank
guidelines for selection of consultants, was a prolonged process which delayed project
effectiveness. In eventual practice the BOM coordinator and, to a great extent, the PCA
took on responsibility for project execution with varying degrees of commitment on the
part of the department heads managing the subcomponents. Where - as was generally the
case -- those new department heads responded to the project by taking advantage of what
it had to offer in terms of training and other technical assistance, especially in the latter
years, the project proved successful in attaining its objectives. Below is a summary of
project execution by component.
9.    Ministry of Plan and Finance - Economic Analysis and Policy Formulation.
The objective of this component called for providing on-the-job and formal training for
staff in the National Treasury Directorate to enable them properly to monitor the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP). A long-term Advisor was hired and assisted the
National Director in the preparation of fiscal information, negotiations with the IMF, etc.
While formal training was provided as envisioned, the Advisor failed to provide on-the-
job training to counterpart staff. The program of Distance Learning financed under the
Credit consisted of preparatory courses (Diploma) as a condition for acceptance in a
Masters Degree Program in Economics and Finance. Given in English and reaching
beneficiaries in Beira as well as Maputo, the courses were organized and taught by
University of London faculty who also trained Mozambican trainers. There was great
demand for the courses, the quality and content of which won high praise from those
enrolled.
10.   Ministry of Plan and Finance - Assistance to the National Budget Directorate.
This component has been one of the most successfully implemented, in terms of
institutional capacity strengthening within the Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF). It
aimed at organizing, developing and supporting a Technical Unit (UTCP) to become an
integral part of the MPF's National Directorate of Plan and Budget after the two
ministries merged in 1995. With the support of project financed long-term advisors, the
unit has (a) provided assistance in preparing the Three-Year Public Investment Plan
(PTIP) in coordination with the preparation and management of the Budget at the central
and provincial levels; (b) developed information systems to monitor investment projects;
and (c) provided training, including on-the job training of counterpart staff. The only
negative factor, outside the project orbit, has been some difficulty in retaining counterpart



4
staff at the central level. In more than one instance, staff have left after training to take
better job offers in the private sector and elsewhere. This situation is expected to improve
after a public sector reform which will include restructuring of career and staff salary
conditions at MPF. For the time being, the two external advisors will be retained and
financed by the ongoing Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB) credit.
11.   Ministry of Plan and Finance - Accountancy Training. Initially the objective
was to strengthen the audit and accounting functions of the National Tax and Audit
Directorate and other parastatals through intensive accounting training for about 500
lower-, mid-, and higher level staff. The terms of reference were subsequently revised to
include the creation of an Association of Accountants and an Accounting Institute. As
envisaged at appraisal, 500 accountants, the majority from the private sector, participated
in the courses which received mixed reviews. Although most students and the firms
sponsoring them considered course content to be good, classes often included students
with different levels of knowledge and experience. The least qualified acted in those
situations as a drag on the enthusiasm and motivation of the more advanced students.
Additionally, the courses did not deliver the hoped-for formal, international accreditation,
a certification which can only be obtained through membership in the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Only a national Association of Accountants with ties
to similar associations in other countries and to members of IFAC would set Mozambique
on the path to IFAC membership. At the credit closing date, since no such association
had yet been formally created, a certain amount of controversy persists regarding the
achievement of objectives under this component.
12.   Bank of Mozambique - Economic Studies and Documentation Center. This
component set out to expand the capacity of the BOM's Economic and Statistics
Department (DEE) to collect and analyze economic and financial information and
formulate economic, monetary and financial policy. In order to achieve these objectives
the Credit financed both a long-term advisor and short term advisors; helped renovate
space and train staff (up to a Masters level in Economics and in other specialized short
courses), equip, and provide consulting services for a Documentation Center for use by
BOM and other institutions.
13.   The component was initially dogged by delays in hiring long and short term
consultants willing to work in a country undergoing a civil war and able to speak and
work in Portuguese. It should be noted that the situation in the country and in BOM, with
the separation of the commercial and central banks, had changed from the time the project
had been designed. Consequently the terms of reference for technical assistance advisors,
which had been elaborated at the time of appraisal, became somewhat outdated. At the
time of appraisal qualified staff were more scarce in the DEE (then burdened by many
responsibilities that were later reassigned to other BOM departments), and the prevailing
"commercial bank culture" stressed operational aspects of the bank at the expense of
appropriate central bank concern for monetary and macroeconomic issues.



5
14.   An advisor in monetary policy hired in 1995 and funded by the project led a
departmental team in preparing and publishing economic papers and other selected
actions. Earlier in the project another consultant financed under this component had been
successful in overseeing the work of computerizing routine procedures in several
departments of the Bank of Mozambique (e.g. Caixa do Estado) as well as in the Treasury
Department in the Ministry of Finance. This pioneering work at BOM resulted in the first
publication of the Statistical Bulletin, issued first on a quarterly basis and since 1995
every month. The consultant in question proved extremely effective in on-the-job training
and successful in motivating the staff at both institutions. The project also financed
purchase of needed equipment (personal computers, one overhead projector, printers,
etc.).
15.   Also with project financing, the coordinator of this component decided to invest
in English-language training for himself and his staff, upgrading skills in the department
to the point that a degree of proficiency in English became one requirement to work at
DEE. That linguistic capability proved useful during interchanges with other central
banks in the region, as well as for participation in Consultative Group (CG) and Paris
Club meetings. DEE and other BOM staff also took part in the University of London
economics training mentioned above.
16.   Now in operation, the Documentation Center is used by BOM staff as well as
outside customers among the general public. The project financed computer equipment
and software, in addition to printers which are used for internal BOM publications.
Under project financing as well an advisor specialized in library services was hired and
remained for four years personally training CDI staff in library records management,
information management, etc., and promoting participation of the staff in seminars,
intemships at the Central Bank of Brazil, and other formal short-term training.
17.   Project financing planned to rehabilitate the physical facilities of the CDI were
never utilized because no final decision was taken before the project closed regarding the
site to be occupied by the Documentation Center (CDI) as part of general renovation
work and office moves in the Central Bank. As a result additional purchases of books,
periodicals, furniture, etc. have been put off, but a civil works category has been added to
the ongoing Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB) project to cover the physical
rehabilitation of the CDI, including purchase of furniture and equipment, additional
training, and a possible short term consultancy.
18.   Bank of Mozambique - Banking Operations/Computerization. The
computerization of Bank of Mozambique was the largest and most ambitious component,
representing roughly 60 percent of the total project cost. After a rather uncertain start,
with long delays in selecting technical assistance consultants and procurement of
hardware and software, results as originally envisaged were generally achieved. When
the project was designed, BOM functioned as a central bank and a commercial bank, with
both parts benefiting from the Credit until separation and privatization of the commercial
bank (BCM). The project provided the banks with basic tools for sustainable expansion,



6
provided training both formally and on-the job. Some knowledgeable Bank staff
regarded the computerization portion of the project as far too ambitious, since it was to
start from nothing and finish with the adoption of advanced information technology. In
practice, however, and despite the need for constant adjustments to match changes in the
country's economic and financial structures, the introduction and operation of computer
systems has proved a success.
19.   As a result of the project, the Department of Organization and Infornatics (DOI)
at BOM now boasts a capable and dynamic team of about 45 technical specialists led by
the director, also the project coordinator, whose dedication helped in the execution and, it
is hoped, will help assure future sustainability. The technical assistance provided by the
technology advisor under this component proved especially productive and collegial in
relations with the coordinator of the component. In the case of the initial and large scale
technical assistance provided by a firm of consultants, however, timing proved a problem.
In retrospect, it is considered that time and money were wasted when those consultants
were brought on board too early in the project, even before equipment had been procured.
Once the civil war ended, however, the project actually moved a step beyond the
appraisal estimates by achieving a national-level start of communications that linked
Maputo operations with newly opened agencies in Beira and Nampula. To guarantee the
investment's sustainability, however, it is still necessary to consolidate the gains obtained
so far by strengthening organizational capacity in banking operations.
20.   Bank of Mozambique - Support to Legal Department. This small component of
the EFMTA credit and a number of related actions have been picked up over time by
another credit, the Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB), which also had a legal
component. Even though its scope was limited, the project significantly improved the
technical capacity of the BOM's Legal Department by promoting the hiring of qualified
staff and providing additional incentives, such as on-the-job training and fellowships, for
recent law graduates to join the department. Also, the development of a twinning
arrangement with a reputable foreign law firm provided a unique opportunity for
Mozambican lawyers to familiarize themselves with other legal systems and institutions.
This is of particular importance in a country where lawyers were extremely rare, where
the Law School had been closed for over five years, and where a major transformation of
the legal framework was under way. The strengthening of legal skills facilitated an in-
house resolution of complex legal issues raised through the restructuring of BOM and the
privatization of some of its commercial functions.
21.   The Legal Department has expanded in the last four years in terms of staff and the
general assessment of the investment under the Credit is positive in terms of both
beneficiary ownership and sustainable development objectives.
22.   Project Implementation Unit. Finally, the Credit financed the creation of an
implementation unit for overall coordination of the project. In addition to an accountant
and a secretary whose salaries are paid by BOM, a General Coordinator paid out of the
proceeds of the credit provided liaison between the project coordinators and IDA, as well



7
as assisting other coordinators in matters of procurement and disbursements, selection of
consultants, issuance of terms of reference, and general advice related to project matters.
The two general coordinators who served during the life of the project were instrumental
in helping implement project objectives by providing necessary connections and
communications among the various subcomponents. The accountant in the unit,
moreover, maintained up-to-date records of the project that simplified preparation of
project audits, and, together with the unit secretary, provided excellent back-up support to
general project coordination and administration.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.
23.   Once the initial and significant delays had been overcome, the project moved well
toward implementation and the satisfactory achievement of its central objectives. As
noted above, both the installation of sophisticated computer technology and the delivery
of training in accountancy, economic analysis and legal techniques have strengthened the
capacity of two important institutions to contribute productively to Mozambique's
progress toward economic reform. Nevertheless, there is no gainsaying the slowness in
bringing together many of the principal components of the project during its first years.
First, it proved difficult to hire a General Project Coordinator, without whom the project
could not be declared effective and IDA consent to the contract be obtained. Although the
Borrower identified a suitable candidate, issues regarding salary, benefits and consultant
status (international vs. local) took an excessive amount of time to resolve. Second, it
proved difficult to recruit other consultants with both the desired expertise and
proficiency in Portuguese. Third, because the Borrower was new to the Bank and
unfamiliar with its procurement and disbursement procedures, all the large contracts
dealing with BOM computerization, training in accounting, and the establishment of the
UTCP ate up unusually large amounts of time.
24.   Another factor that complicated and slowed execution was the reality of two
implementing agencies: the Bank of Mozambique and the Ministry of Finance. The
former was supposed to be the lead agency carrying the main burden of implementation,
but the effective division of responsibility made coordination at times extremely complex
and time consuming.
25.   The project had a good disbursement performance. At the close, 97 percent of the
funds had been utilized despite the initial divergence between the optimistic disbursement
estimates at appraisal and the slow, early performance. In fact, disbursements picked up
in FY93, after the Mid-Term Review (July 1992) and especially after large contracts were
signed.
26.   Project costs and financing. Actual project costs and financing were in
accordance with appraisal estimates. There was no cost overrun. The differences shown
in Table 7A of the Statistical Annex are the result of the weakening of the dollar in
relation to the SDR. The initial dollar equivalent (US$21.0 million) of the credit became
over US$22.97 by the time the project ended. The project included no cofinancing, but



8
estimates of the Government's contribution to local costs, including salaries, office space,
import taxes, etc. indicate an amount close to US$2.0 million equivalent.
27.   Audits Compliance. The Borrower complied with the DCA covenant requiring
the submission of annual Audit Reports not later than six months after the end of each
calendar year. The Audits submitted have been timely. There are not at this time any
pending actions resulting from audits.
D. Project Sustainability
28.   Through the computerization component, the project has helped strengthen
institutional capacity at the Bank of Mozambique and, by making possible the creation of
a Technical Unit (UTCP), has made a similar contribution at the Ministry of Plan and
Finance. These investments should produce returns far into the future. In the case of the
UTCP, for instance, the advisors performed successfully in transferring skills to
counterpart staff, and their contract will continue for at least another year with financing
from the FSCB project. The coordinator of the computerization program has indicated
that additional technical assistance to upgrade organizational capacity is required to
consolidate the investment gains. In the training of accountants the project acted as a
catalyst. Sustainability will depend on further steps to create an Association of
Accountants at the national level and subsequently to connect it to the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC). During the completion mission of this project the
Borrower submitted a detailed Operations Plan for each component, showing
performance indicators and expected impact.
E. Bank Performance
29.   Bank performance was satisfactory for most of the project's life. In the first years
of implementation, in particular, Bank staff could have been more sensitive to the
Borrower's special needs as a new member and to its general unfamiliarity with Bank
procedures. Those difficulties in mutual understanding diminished considerably over
time. Supervision proceeded on a regular basis, and lines of communication were always
open between the Borrower and the Bank.
F. Borrower Performance
30.   Despite some variations in the degrees of commitment on the part of the
coordinators of the different components, Borrower conduct and achievement were also
satisfactory. BOM and MPF provided important support to the computerization program
and the creation and implementation of the UTCP, respectively. Both institutions also
showed enthusiasm for the training opportunities and technical assistance provided by the
project. General coordination by the BOM through the office of the Project Coordinator
was highly satisfactory. It made the project's success possible.



9
G. Assessment of Outcome
31.   The project has produced a satisfactory outcome, measurable in three specific
ways. First, both the BOM and the MPF have bolstered their institutional capacity
through formal and on-the-job staff training. Second, the BOM has been computerized
and is on the right path to consolidating this technological advance through additional
assistance in the operational area. And third, the Technical Unit established in the MPF
has been providing invaluable support in the elaboration of the Three Year Investment
Program in coordination with the preparation and management of the Budget at the
central and provincial levels.
H. Future Operations
32.   There is no follow-on project to this operation. However, as mentioned before, a
number of actions unfinished under the Credit are being picked up by an ongoing
operation, the Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB) Credit.
1. Key Lessons Learned.
33.   Among the key lessons learned from project implementation, the following
general observation ranks as fundamental: a Borrower beset by civil war and economic
near collapse is not likely to attach a high priority to projects aimed at strengthening
financial management and the institutions responsible for it. Once the political, economic
and institutional environment improves, however, a synergistic effect gives such technical
assistance higher value. In the case of this project, the Borrower's sense of ownership
grew significantly as the civil war ended and relative stability produced a positive effect
on both the project and its implementers. Other lessons include the following:
*  Success in capacity building depends in large part on the commitment evinced by the
beneficiaries. This was evident in the BOM computerization; the creation and
implementation of the Technical Unit in the MOF Directorate of Plan; various
training actions. To generate that. commitment from the start and insure the best level
of execution, borrowers should be actively involved in project preparation and design.
*  When technical assistant (TA) consultants are selected, they should be required to
commit themselves to transfer their own skills through on-the-job training. Skills
transfer was successfully achieved in the case of two main subcomponents: the
computerization at BOM and the creation of the UTCP at MPF.
*  The shorter the length and more limited the scope of a subproject (i.e. BOM
computerization) the faster will be the results and the easier to measure.
*  The Bank should value the IDFs which started in July 1992 as instruments available
to provide immediate, flexible resources to governments embarking on the initial



10
stages of reformn which seeks to produce drastic change in the cultural and
institutional environment. In the case of this project a technical assistance credit was
sought because there was no other instrument available at the time.
* In Mozambique, given the civil war being fought as the credit was launched, a more
realistic implementation timetable should have been set, especially in connection with
recruiting TA consultants.



PART II - Statistical Annexes



Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible                                               N/A
Macroeconomics Policies
. ----------------------- --- ----- ------ -----  ------ -- ------ --- --- ---- --------- -- -----------------------
ector Policies
Financial Objectives
-- ~     ~      . . -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -----~- -V-r-- ------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Institutional Development                                 v
sical Objectives                                                                           I
PoveReduction vy
er oncerns
er Social Objectives                                                                                          I
__________________________________________        --________________-_______________---------------- --I-------T-------
En-viromnmental Objectives 
________ _____ ___ __co _ge __ ____________ _t ------------------- ------- --- ----T------- ---------------- ------ -------- ---
PulcSector Management                                                    I
------__------------------ __---------   ___--   ---- _------ _-----------  __---- _____--------------------  --------T-------
Private Sector Development                              I_            
B. Project Sustainability                               Likely                  Unlikely                Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                                     Highly                Satisfactory              Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                                               v
Appraisav
Supervision                                                                          v
D. Borrower Performance                                 Highly                Satisfactory              Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation
Ipemenation 
Covenant Compliance                                                                  V
Operation_v
E. Assessment of Outcome                             Highly    Satisfactory Unsatisfactory                         Highly
Satisfactory                                                Unsatisfactory
V'



Table 2: RELATED BANK OPERATIONS
Credit Title                         Purpose                      Fiscal      Status
Year
Preceding Operations
Rehabilitation Program    To rehabilitate and maintain investments and  1985      Completed
economic services expected to generate an
immediate production response.
Second Rehabilitation    To support policy and institutional reforms; to    1988  Completed
provide foreign exchange to finance essential
imports; and to assist the Government develop
an agenda for longer-term policy changes.
Third Rehabilitation     To improve the allocation of foreign exchange    1989    Completed
system, budgetary policy and price policy; and
to review and reform of trade tariff structure.
Parallel Operations
Economic Recovery        To support the early phase of financial sector  1992     Completed
(ERC)                    reform -- particularly the separation of Banco
de Mocambique and BCM; and to also support
further integration and liberalization of the
exchange rate
Second Economic          To support macroeconomic stabilization         1994      Completed
Recovery (SERC)          through the strengthening of key elements of
fiscal and monetary policy while supporting an
interlinked program of enterprise and financial
sector reform
- - -- - - - - -- - -- - - -  I - - -- --  I - - -- - -I - -- - --I - - - -- -I - -- -- - - - - - - -- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - - - - -- - - - -- -- - - - - -- - -- - --- -- - ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Financial Sector         To develop and strengthen the financial sector,   1994     Under
Capacity Building        including training of central and commercial          implementation
banks staff and legal professionals at BOM and
MOF.
Following Operations
Third Economic           To support measures to improve macro-          1997  Under
Recovery (TERC)          economic management through financial and             implementation
fiscal reform, and to stimulate the supply
response.
Fourth Economic          Main elements currently being identified --    1998  Under
Recovery (FERC)          likely to be further fiscal reform elements and       identification
trade reform issues.



Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle      D)ate Planned             Date Actual
Identification                         NA                November 1985
Preparation                            NA                  March 1986
Appraisal                            July 1986            October 1987
Post-Appraisal                         NA                   June 1988
Negotiations                      September 1986         August 14, 1989
Board Presentation                  April 1987           October 17, 1989
Signing                                NA               December 1, 1989
Effectiveness                      August 1987            June 29, 1990
Mid-Term Review                        NA                 July 27, 1992
Project Completion               December 31, 1997      December 31, 1997
Closing Date                     December 31, 1997      December 31, 1997
Table 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal Estimate    3.4    5.9    4.2    2.8    2.1    1.8    0.7    0.1
Appraisal Estimate    3.4    9.3    13.5   16.3   18.4   20.2   20.9   21.0
(cumulative)                                                    I
Actual                       1.6    0.8    2.9    5.5    4.1    4.1    2.1    1.8
Disbursements
Actual                -      1.6    2.4    5.3    10.8   14.9   19.0   21.1   22.9
Disbursements
(cumulative)
Actual as % of        0      17      17     32      58      73     90      96      97
Estimate



Table 5: SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Activities in SAR                   Appraisal Estimate                     Actual
Proiect Management and Administration
=, Appointment of Project Coordinators                           August 1989                     January 1990
>  Contract Project Coordinator Assistant                       December 1989                     June 1990
>  Establish Management Committees                              September 1989                   November 1990
Ministry of Finance
Economic Analysis and Policy Formulation
=*  Contract Long-Term Advisor                                    April 1990                      June 1991
>  Recruit Short-Term Advisors                                    April 1990                      June 1992
>   Propose Procurement of Equipment                             January 1990                    April 1991
- v Prepare TrainingPlans/-Select Participants                   Ja uary 1990                    Apr-i 1991
- Prepare Design/TOR for Technical Unit                        December 1989                  I st quarter 1991
z>   Establish the Technical Project Unit                       December 1989                  November 1990
=>  Contract Long-Term Advisor                                    April 1990                      July 1992
=>  Recruit Short-Term Advisors                                   April 1990                      July1993
Propose Procuremnent of Equipment                               January 1990                  Septemvber 1992
Accounting in SOEs and OtherAgencies
=>  Revise Training Program/Schedule                            November 1989                   January 1993
=>  Invite Bids for Training Firm                                 March 1990                     March 1991
Bank of Mozambigue
Econonic Analysis/Policy Formulation
=>  Contract Long-Term Advisor                                     May 1990                     February 1995
>   Recruit Short-Term Advisors                                  January 1990                   January 1995
=, Propose Procurement of Equipment                              January 1990                   Jabuary 1996
=>  Prepare Training Plans                                       February 1990                  Jabuary 1994
Documentation Center
>  Select and Appoint New Staff                                 December 1989                    March 1996
. Contract Long-Term Advisor                                      April 1990                   September 1995
=>  Complete First Phase of Of fice Renovation                  November 1989
=>  Propose Proc. Equipment/Library Material.                    January 1989                  December 1997
=>  Prepare Training Plans                                       January 1990                   February 1996
Banking Operations/Computerization
=>  Hire Counterpart Staff                                      December 1989                  September 1990
=>  Contract Long-Term Adivisor                                   Aprii 1990                      June 1991
t  Propose Procurement of Equipment                               March 1990                     April 1991
>   Review Bid Documents                                          June 1989                      April 1991
=>  Designate/Prepare Facilities Computer Ctr.                  December 1989                     May 1991
>  initiate Bids for Hardware/Software                          December 1989                     June 1991
=>   Initiate Bids for Technical Assistance                     December 1989
>  Select Supplier/Procure Equipment                               June 1990                   November 1991
>  Select Provider of Technical Assistance                         June 1990                   December 1991
Legal Advisory Services
=>  Recruit Short-Term Advisors                                 September 1990                    July 1991
>   Prepare Training Plans                                      September 1990                    July 1991
*  Select Fellowvship Participants                                June 1990                    September 1991
=>  Propose Proc. of Equipment/Materials                         October 1990                     July 1991



Table 6: KEY INDICATORS IN PROJECT OPERATION
Description of Indicators                    Appraisal Estimate                                   Actual
Ministrv of Finance
National Treasury Directorate          Recruit new staff and provide them with formal    A long-term advisor was hired but failed to
Expand and redefine functions of two   and on-the-job training for proper monitoring and   provide on-the-job training. Staff had access to
recently merged departments (Economic    implementation of the ERP.                 Masters Program in Economics/Finance through
Analysis & Prices and International                                                 distance training financed by project and provided
Cooperation).                                                                       by University of London. Problems in retaining
qualified staff after training.
National Budget Directorate            Hiring of extemal TA consultants to help set up    Urnit created in 1990. From the start, difficulties
Creation of a Central Technical Project Unit the Unit with counterpart staff. TA to include  in retaining skilled staff. Good quality on-the-job
(UTCP). UTCP to be responsible for the    training, formal and on-the-job.          training in spite of obstacles. Also formal
formulation and application of procedures                                           training was developed to reach larger audience,
for project preparation, evaluation, and                                            including other sectors and the provinces.
monitoring.
National Tax and Audit Directorate     Training of 500 lower, mid, and higher level staff  Two levels of training in accounting had the
Strengthening the audit and accounting  by consulting firm, which would phase in    participation of about 500 individuals, most of
functions of the Directorate and other State  Mozambican instructors within a 5-year period.    them from the private sector. This action
Enterprises                                                                         received mixed reviews, although course content
was considered good by most of the students and
the accounting firms sponsoring those students.
Training was provided by a firm of consultants
which also employed Mozambican instructors.
Bank of Mozambique
Econonic Research Dept. (DEE)          a) Hiring of Economic Advisor to assist in   a) A Monetary Policy advisor was hired and led
Capacity strengthening for the collection    economic analysis and policy formulation, review  the work of DEE staff in the elaboration of
and analysis of economic and financial  statistics, etc., and short term consultants for  economic papers. A short-term consultant was
informnation, and formulation of economic,  specific studies and other specialized services.  also hired and worked with DEE staff and others
monetary and financial policy.         b) Establishment of a Documentation Center to    at BOM on the computerizing routine procedures.
serve the needs of BOM and related institutions,   b) The Documentation Center became
including space renovation, training, consulting    operational, although rehabilitation work of the
services.                                    physical facilities/acquisitio of furniture still
c) Training of staff at the Masters level in  remain to be completed.
Economics ard other specialized short courses  c) Distance training in Economics
Banking Operations                     a) Procurement of equipment and vehicles     Although there were delays at start, BOM has
Capacity strengthening, including the  b) Design of an operation and information system   been computerized and the project financed the
Commercial Bank.                       to be computerized, including the procurement  acquisition of hardware/software and technical
and installation of hardware and software    assistance, including on-the-job training.
sufficient to enable BOM to operate the Chart of
Accounts developed with the help of the IMF. To
be done in 2 phases of TA:
(i) diagnostic assessment of BOM's special needs;
and (ii) instal lation of hardware and software and
training of staff.
Legal Advisory Services                Seminars on legal/intemr banking issues;     Training actions, including internships in the legal
Strengthen BOM's Legal Dept. to enable it  fellowships; short term training on banking  departments of other central banks, participation
to provide legal advice to other       operations and donor negotiations; para-legal staff  of staff in legal seminars; also creation of
departments, including in matters of   training. Computer equipment financing to    computerized data base of existing legislation.
international finance                  process standard legal texts/compile legal
reference data on banking regulations.
Project Unit                           Day-to-day administration of project         Done
Creation of Project Unit consisting of a  implementation, direct communication with IDA
Project Coordinator and support staff



Table 7A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Item                 Appraisal Estimate             Latest Estimate
Foreign    Local    Total   Foreign    Local    Total
Ministry of Finance
Econ. Analysis/Policy Form.    1.24  0.06      1.30      1.67      0.15     1.82
Budgeting (Technical Unit)  1.19     0.06      1.25      2.88      0.21     3.09
Accounting in SOEs/Others   1.05     0.10      1.15      2.99      0.08     3.07
Subtotal           3.48     0.22      3.70      7.54      0.44     7.98
Bank of Mozambique
Econ. Studies/Doc.Center    1.75     0.37      2.12      1.03      0.07     1.10
Banking Operations         11.42     0.76      12.18     13.61     1.30     14 91
Legal Advisory Services     0.43     0.30      0.73      0.18      0.03     0.21
Subtotal          13.60      1.43     15.03     14.82     1.40     16.22
Project Management          0.71     0.03      0.74      0.61      0.13     0.74
Physical Contingencies      0.70     0.07      0.77
Price Contingencies         2.53     0.24      2.77
TOTAL COSTS           21.020    1.99     23.01     22.97      1.97     24.94
Table 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million equivalent)
Source               Appraisal Estimate             Latest Estimate
_  Foreign    Local T Total   Foreign    Local    Total
IDA                         21.0               21.0     22.97               22.97
Government of Mozambique              2.0       2.0                1.97     1.97
Total             21.0  J 2.0        23.0     22.97      1.97     24.94



Table 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement
Section                Description of Covenant                         Comments
3.01      Borrower shall carry out project in accordance with
Implementation Program set forth in schedule 6 of
Credit Agreement by:
(a) Appointing Project Coordinators for BOM/MOF  Complied with
components;
(b) Hiring Project Coordination Assistant with   Complied with
qualifications and managerial experience acceptable to
IDA, to assist Project Coordinators, and report directly
to the Project Coordinator, BOM
(c) Establishing Managing Committees at BOM/MOF to Complied with
review annual work programs of each subcomponent,
advise on execution of subcomponents, review progress
and annual project review reports.
(d) Establishing with the National Budget Directorate of  Complied with. TA consultants
MOF a Central Technical Project Unit (UTCP)      on board since August 1992
Training program started on June
3.03      Borrower shall implement the Accounting Training  27, 1994
Program in accordance with a timetable agreed with
IDA
3.04      Borrower shall install and operate the computerized  Contract with supplier of
systems on terms and with a timetable to be agreed with  hardware/software signed
IDA.                                             September 8, 1993.
3.05      Borrower shall not later than November 30, 1990, and    Complied with.
not later than November 30 of each year, until project
completion, conduct with IDA an annual
implementation review to: monitor progress; exchange
information among staff responsible and propose
solutions to any current problems; and update
timetables and cost estimates.
4.01      Submission of yearly Audit Report, not later than six  1990-96 Audit reports generally
months after the end of each year                submitted on time
Last Audit Report (1997-98) due
.  on 6/30/98)



Table 9: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs1
Stage of Project Cycle              Staff Weeks           US$'0002
Preparation to Appraisal                         14.0                33.5
Appraisal                                        79.0                197.7
Negotiations through Board Approval              8.0                 21.5
Supervision                                     151.0               472.0
Completion                                       12.0                32.8
TOTAL                                   J       264.0        J       757.5
Source: MIS Report (COSR2) - Staff Time Use and Schedule, in Staff Weeks and Dollars.
2
Includes travel and labor costs.



Table 10: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of the    Month/    No. of   Days    Specialized Staff   Performance    Types of
Project Cycle     Year    persons    in    Skills Represented         Ratings       Problems
Field
Impl. Devel.
Status  Impact
Identification     11/85        1        5    COF
Preappraisal  1     3/86        2        15   COF, TAO
2     8/86        2        10   COF, TAO
3     1/87        1        4    TAO
4     4/87        1        7    TAO
Appraisal          10/87        3        15   TAP, OPA,CON
Post Appraisal      6/88        2        15   PSM, OPA
Supervision   1    4/90         1        9    PSM                     S        S    PM, PR
2    11/90        1        10   OPA                     S        S    PM, PR
3     2/91        2        10   PSM, LEG                S        S    TR, PM
4  July 1991      1        10   OPA                     S        S    TR
5     3/92        1        5    PSM                     S       U    TR
6    7/92"        2        18   PSM, OPA                S       U    TR,PR
7    2/93         1        5    OPA                     S        S    PR
8     6/93        1        12   OPA                     S        S    PR
9     6/94        2        22   OPA, LEG, PCA           S        S
10     2/95        2        12   OPA,SFA                 S       S
11    12/95        1        12   OPA                     S        S
12    7/96         1        10   OPA                     S       S
13    2/97         1        9    OPA                     S        S
Completion          3/98        1        9    OPA                     S        S
KEY
Types of Skills                  Types of Problems                Ratings
COF   Country Officer            FA   Funds Availability           S    Satisfactory
LEG   Lawyer                     FP   Financial Performance        HS   Highly Satisfactory
OPA   Operations Analyst         LC   Covenants Compliance         U    Unsatisfactory
PSM   PSM Specialist             PM    Progress Management
TAO   TA Officer                 PR   Procurement Progress
PCA   Procurement/Computerization  TA    TA Progress
SFA   Sr. Financial Analyst (Acctg.)  TR   Training Progress
3 Mid-Term Review.



Appendix A
CREDIT 2066-MOZ
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AJIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A mission consisting of Carolina Machado (Operations Analyst - AFTM 1) visited
Mozambique from March 4 through 13, 1998 in preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the Economic and Financial Management Technical
Assistance (EFMTA) credit. The mission wishes to thank the Bank of Mozambique
(BOM) and Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF) officials for their support, in particular
Mr. Joao Pais, the General Project Coordinator (GPC), and his office staff. A list of
officials met is attached to this Aide Memoire.
2.    This aide-memoire, to be included in the ICR as an annex, and a preliminary draft
of Part I (Project Implementation Assessment) resulting from discussions with the project
coordinators, have been left with the GPC and the other coordinators for their comments.
Also attached to this Aide Memoire is a draft Plan of Operations, prepared for the
Borrower by the GPC for the operational phase of the project, including performance
indicators of the sustainability of the investment under the project.
3.    The EFMTA credit closed on December 31, 1997, as estimated at appraisal.
Disbursements under the credit until April 30, 1998 will probably amount to about 94
percent of the total credit amount. Undisbursed funds remaining after April 30 will be
canceled. The non utilization of these funds was due to a number of factors: (a) lack of
definition on the part of BOM as to a site of the Documentation Center, thus precluding
purchase of equipment, furniture, texts, in addition to civil works for rehabilitation of the
building; (b) cancellation of the Commercial Bank (BCM) subcomponent as a result of its
privatization after separation from BOM; (c) savings in some of the long-term contracts;
(d) dropping out of the Balance of Payments subcomponent.
4.    The credit's main objective, at the time of Appraisal in October 1987/July 1988,
was to provide institutional support to the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Mozambique,
in the form of technical assistance. This assistance included long and short-term advisory
services, extensive training, and purchase of equipment and vehicles. Since the
objectives of the credit consisted entirely of technical assistance in very specific areas and
excluding any implementation of policy, overall impact of the credit will be difficult to
assess. The amount of the investment (SDR 16.5/US$21 million equivalent) was
relatively small and financing was aimed at specific targets: computerization of the Bank
of Mozambique, advisory services in certain areas of BOM and MPF, training of staff at
both institutions. In fact, the project was firstly designed, in the mid 1980's, as a line of
credit to be used according to agreed criteria, in order to respond in a flexible manner to



-2-
urgent needs of the Government in a number of areas of the then main economic
agencies (Ministry of Finance, Bank of Mozambique, and the National Planning
Commission).
5.    The mission concurs with the view that the overall result of the project is
satisfactory. Major accomplishments under the project were:
*  Creation of a technical unit at the MFP, Unidade Tecnica de Coordenacao de
Projectos (UTCP), which provides assistance in the preparation of the Three-
Year Public Investment Plan (PTIP), in coordination with the preparation and
management of the Budget at the central and provincial levels. Also, under
the EFMTA project the work of the UTCP has been computerized and
systems were created for data management, in coordination with various
sectors (Health, Education, Agriculture, Construction, Water Supply).
Financing of technical assistance at UTCP, which now operates at the
National Directorate of Plan and Budget, will continue under the ongoing
Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB) project.
*  Computerization of Bank of Mozambique, initiated under the project and
including BCM prior to its separation from BOM and subsequent
privatization. The project provided the banks with basic tools for sustainable
expansion, provided training both formally and on-the job. Just prior to
privatization of BCM, funds under this component were used exclusively for
expansion of the Central Bank computerization. This included the start of
communications at the national level, including its newly opened agencies at
Beira and Nampula. The coordinator of this component, who was involved in
the computerization project from start, considered her involvement was a
positive and real learning experience. The computerization project has been
audited by a consulting firm (with BOM funds). Preliminary conclusions
indicate that there are gaps in the area of organization and methods. The
project coordinator agrees and indicated to the mission that, in order to
consolidate the investment in terms of its sustainability, additional technical
assistance in the organizational area is still required.
*  Distance training in Economics and Finance which benefited a reasonable
number of staff in the MOF and BOM, in addition to staff from other
ministries and institutions in both Maputo and Beira. The project financed
specifically a course (Diploma) which prepared candidates for Master Degree
programs in Economics and Finance. This "course of transition", a
requirement to access to a Masters program, has been subsequently adopted
by other countries (Cambodia, Vietnam, Namibia, Botswana, Zambia), using
many of the methodologies created in the ambit of the EFMTA project. The
ongoing FSCB project has continued to finance participation in Masters
programs in Economics and Finance.



-3-
As envisaged at appraisal, 500 accountants were given intensive training in
accounting. The training provided under the project received mixed reviews,
although course content was considered highly satisfactory by most of the
students and the firms sponsoring those students. One reason for a less than
good review was the fact that classes at the first level had students with
different levels of knowledge and experience, resulting in lack of motivation
on the part of the more advanced students. Another negative aspect relates to
the failure of the courses to provide in the end formal/international
accreditation. Part of this component included the creation of an Association
of Accountants in Mozambique. This has yet to happen. At first, the reason
for the delay had been the reluctance of an existing similar association (in
Beira, Sofala province) to join a new association at the national level. This
issue has now been resolved and there is an ongoing initiative on the part of
private individuals, some of which attended the courses financed by the
project, to go ahead with such an association at the national level. In case the
MPF agrees to sponsor this initiative and requests Bank financing, this action
may be funded under the FSCB, upon receipt of an action plan, cost estimates,
etc. The creation of such an association at the national level would allow for
linkage with similar organizations in other countries which are members of
IFAC (International Federation of Accountants), enabling graduates of
accountancy courses to obtain international accreditation upon completion of
course work in Mozambique.
Other actions with a positive impact, financed by the Credit, included:
intensive training in English of the staff at the Department of Economic
Studies (DEE); computerization work in the Legal Department library,
including creation of a data base for existing legislation; short courses in the
area of banking; high level short-term seminars for policy makers in BOM,
MPF, other ministries.
6.    Audits of the project were unqualified and submitted on a timely basis every year.
The office of the General Project Coordinator (the project implementation unit), created
when the Credit became effective, kept the accounts of the project in a manner which
greatly facilitated the work of the auditors. In addition, the GPC office provided
invaluable support to project execution, in terms of helping with
procurement/disbursement processes, etc.. As a result, capacity in project management
has been created within BOM.
6.    With the additional information collected during the mission, Part I of the ICR
will be updated for the Borrower's comments on the ICR and the project in general, after
the World Bank's internal clearance.
March 1998



Attachment
CREDIT 2066-MOZ
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
LIST OF OFFICIALS MET
Bank of Mozambique
H.E. Adriano Maleiane, Governor
Mr. Samuel Canor, Advisor
Bank of Mozambique - Project Coordination Office
Mr. Joao Pais, General Coordinator
Ministry of Plan and Finance - Ecomomic Analysis
Mr. Manuel Chang, National Director of the Treasury
Ms.Otilia Santos, National Vice-Director of the Treasury
Mr. Manuel Paulo, Administrative Coordinator (Distance Training - Diploma)
Mr. Alberto S. Simao, Administrator, University of London Training Program
Ministry of Plan and Finance - Technical Unit (UTCP)
Mr. Domingos Lambo, National Vice-Director of Plan
Mr. Paulo Macamo, Accountant, Department of Investments and Development
Ministry of Plan and Finance - Intensive Training in Accounting
Mr. Ismael Panachande, Chief of Audits Department
Bank of Mozambique - Legal Assistance
Mr. Abel Chicalia, Director, Legal Department
Bank of Mozambique - Banking Operations
Mrs. Maria Luiza Aragao, Director, Department of Organization and Data Processing
Mr. Alfredo Lopes, Computerization Advisor
Bank of Mozambique - Economic Studies/Statistics and Documentation Center
Mr. Antonio Pinto de Abreu, General Manager
Mrs. Ilda Elizabeth Comiche, Division ChiefEconomic Studies Department
Mrs. Carmelia Langa, Director, Documentation Center
Others
Mr. Jorge Salvador, previous Project Coordinator
Mr. Eduardo Nhamposse, Coordinator of the (future) Accountants' Association/Institute



Borrower' Assessment of Implementation
(Sumimary Translation)
Although the overall assessment is that the objectives of the project were successfully
achieved, it should be mentioned that the project was designed at a critical time for
Mozambique, because of the country economic and political situation. Also, the
institutions implementing the Economic Rehabilitation Program lacked qualified staff,
basic equipment, and external support.
The Government' role in attaining the project objectives was evident in view of:
*  the political will to implement the project;
* the involvement of qualified staff and their support in face of the changes in the
environment;
*  the close connection which developed between the project's general coordination and
individual managers of the various subcomponents.
Since the project was designed to provide assistance in specific areas it was expected that
contracts and other procurement actions would be processed rapidly. Taking into account
the scarcity of qualified staff, it was assumed that tasks would be delegated to mid-level
staff.
Yet it was rather difficult at the start of the project to do so because of Government staff
constraints, difficult communication with IDA counterparts at the time, and the need to
learn new procurement procedures.
The complexity of problems encountered and resulting delays in disbursement were such
that the World Bank even considered canceling the credit. It became necessary for the
Government to take action to remedy this situation and to establish a better. system of
communication with its counterparts at the Bank.
Constraints to implementation at the time could be summarized as follows:
* Delay in effectiveness (6 months) dependent on having a Project Coordination
Assistant on board;
*  Slow progress in creating working committees; lack of definition of strategies on the
part of the subcomponents coordinators, including submission of work plans and



2
related budgets. Both the Task Manager and the Project Coordination Assistant,
financed by the Credit, were not clear as to how implement the project.
* Difficulties in establishing a dialogue with the Task Manager, a fact common in other
Bank projects at the time.
* Weak capacity of staff, especially in terms of World Bank procedures, as well as poor
communication among the departments responsible for project implementation (i.e.
follow up on disbursements and the special account).
* Time constraints on the part of the project coordinators.
* Difficulties in recruiting Portuguese speaking consultants with the required profile.
* Emphasis on the computerization of the commercial aspect of Bank of Mozambique
in detriment of central bank operations.
Acceleration of implementation was achieved after the Mid-Term Review. Improved and
steady communication with IDA counterparts was helped by a change in task manager.
Other factors included procurement/disbursement seminars, frequent supervision
missions, and the establishment of a Resident Mission in Maputo.
The office of the Project Coordinator, established for the day-to-day implementation and
administrative work, supported
the execution of the following:
7- Creation of the Technical Unit (UTCP) at the National Budget Directorate for the
preparation, evaluation, and implementation of sector programs (water, agriculture,
health, education).
- Introduction to distance training programs for Master's degrees in Economics and
Finance.
=> Start of the Intensive Training in Accounting program.
=> Hiring of technical assistance advisors and training of staff at the National
Directorates of Treasury and Budget (Ministry of Plan and Finance), and Departments
of Economic Studies/Statistics, Organization/Informatics, Legal Affairs, and
Documentation Center (Bank of Mozambique).
=> Contract approval for the supply of hardware and software in the computerization of
Bank of Mozambique.
7 Seminars, other training programs for Bank of Mozambique, Ministry of Plan and
Finance staff.
7 Other courses
7 Acquisition of equipment, books, publications, periodicals for the Documentation
Center
=> Improvement in communications and other systems at Bank of Mozambique



3
= Introduction of electronic mail (internal/external) at Bank of Mozambique
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by the Bank
The ICR reflects in an accurate manner the two phases of the project and offers
recommendations which are appropriate to eventual support in the same areas of the
project.
As mentioned before, the Government's recognition of what the project had to offer and
the total commitment of the staff involved with the project, helped increase the quality
and efficiency of the staff at the two institutions through training, acquisition of
equipment, etc.. The Ministry of Plan and Finance and the Bank of Mozambique are
nowadays regarded as institutions with a significant role in fiscal matters, which ensure
financial discipline in the Government and financial institutions.
As it is important to consolidate the project's achievements the Government agreed that
the Bank continue to provide similar assistance through the ongoing Financial Sector
Capacity Building project.



Appendix B
iBxdr                                                                        Page I of 4
CONTRIBUIQAO DO GOVERNO AO RELAT6RIO FINAL (PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT) DO PROJECTO DE ASSISTSNCIA TECNICA A GESTAO ECONOMICA E
FINANCEIRA - MINISTtRIO DO PLANO E FINANQ;AS E BANCO DE MO0;AMBIQUE
Embora seja opiniAo generalizada que os objectivos do Projecto foram, de uma maneira
geral, conseguldos importa referir qua o seu Inicto deu-se numa fase bastante critica da
vida do Pais, caracterzada por um declinio acentuado da economia como reflexo da
guerra e outros factores adversos tais como, fraqueza das Instituig6es encarregues de
implementar o Programa de ReabilitaclSo Econ6mica e Social (MPF e BM) par faita de
quadros qualificados, equipamentos b4sicos do trabalho do dia-a-dia e apoios externos.
Para este sucesso contribulu, de urna maneira decisisva, a observancia, por parte do
Govemo, dos seguintes pressupostos iniciais:
*  Vontade poiltics de implementar o Projecto.
* Envolvimento do quadros capazes e sus motivapho para as mudan9as que se
impunham.
* LigaAo estreita entre a coordena;Ao geral e os gestores das subcomponentes.
Tratando-se do um Projecto de assistoncia direccionado para areas concretas impunha-se,
tamnb6m, qua, tendo em aten9Ao a exiguidade de tecnicos com formagao adequada e a
sobreposi^o de tarefas descmpenhadas pelos poucos gestores existentes, fossom
delegadas compet6nclas para quadros m6dios, a burocracia intema e extema eliminada,
os contratos aprovados com celerdade a os concursos para a aquisicao de equipamentos
Ianpados atempadamente.
Nio foi ficil, na parts inidal do Projecto, realizar estas acq6es dada a pressao do trabalho
diArio, comunicaq&o deflciento e dificil com o Task Manger e implementa9ao de outros
projectos financiados polo Banco Mundial e por outros doadores, cada um deles com
procedimentos especificos mesmo quando se tratava de apolar o mesmo programa.
A complexidade dos problemas a o ritmo bastanto desacelerado dos desembolsos foram
tais quo o Banco Mundial aventou a possibilidade de cancelar o Projecto. Era urgente,
pols, qua o Governo pusesse em pratica os pressupostos inicials acima indicados, bem
como o estabelecimento de um diAlogo construtivo com o Banco Mundial.
Estes constrangimentos podom ser rosumidos no seguinte:
*  Atraso de cerca de 6 meses na declarapAo da efectividade do credito, motivado pela
demora na contrata;ao do Assistente do Coordenador Geral.
.  Lentidlo na cdag&o de equipes de trabalho e sua  responsabilizagAo,  falta de
deoinicho de estrategias por pane das sub--componentes, elabora,co de planos de
trabalho o respectivos orcamentos. Foi not6rio, tambem, rque tanto o Task manager
como o assistante contratado para a coordena9Ao nao tinham a clareza necessaria
sobre como implementar ests Projecto.
*  Dificuldade de articulago com o Task Manager. Este facto caracterizou de uma
maneira signlficativa a fass inicial dos operac6es do Banco Mundial em curso no Pals.



A&   ^Appendix B
iof" sz                                                                    Page 2 of 4
* Fraquezas por parte dos quadros no dominio dos procedimentos do Banco Mundial,
bem como deficiente articulagao intema dos Departamentos que deveriam proceder ao
acompanhamento das contas especiais e desembolsos.
Exiguidade de tempo por parte de responsaveis das sub-componentes. afectos, de
uma maneira geral, a diversas tarefas de caracter inadiavel.
* Dificuldade de selec;io de consultores fluentes na lingua Portuguesa corn o perfil
desojado pars as tarefas preconizadas
* Concentrac3io inicial do projecto de informatizagAo e forma;6o de tecnicos de
informltica na area comercial do Banco de Mocambique (actual Banco Comercial de
Mogambique) em detrimento das operag6es do Banco Central.
Do dialogo constante com o Banco Mundial, mudanca do Task Manager, realizao do
mid-term review, do primeiro sominArio sobre procurement e desembolsos por t6cnicos do
Banco Mundial, miss6es de supervisao, bom como o estabelecimento da Missao
Residente desta Institui;Ao em Maputo foram criadas as condigaes para um arranque
definitivo do Projecto.
o Gabinete do Apolo ao Coordenwdor, criado pars acompanhar o trabalho dlAnio, tovo, pot
natureza das suss funq6os, quo *mpreender um esforpo organizativo maior quo c das
estruturas administrativas envolvidas, o ac96es concretas come;aram a ganhar forms,
nomeadamente:
*  CraCIo da UTCP (Unidade T6cnica de Coordena9io de Projectos) junto da Direc,ao
Nacional do Orcamento (MPF), sua capacitag&o para elaborasao, acompanhamento e
avaliacAo dos diversos programas sectorials (Aguas, agricultura, saude, educa;ao,
etc...).
*  Introdu$3o de Cursos de Mestrado A distincla em economia e finangas ministrados
pela Universidade de Londres, born como forma9co intensiva em Ingl6s para os
quadros Inscritos.
*  Inicio dos curso de formagao acelerada em Contabilidade destinada a 500 tecnicos de
Minist6rios, Empresas e outras Institui9oes com vista a uma melhor apresentasio de
contas para efeitos de auditoria pela Direc;ao Nacional do Impostos e Auditoria.
*  ContratagAo de assist6ncia t.cnlca e formagio de quadros das Direcqes Nacionais
de Tesouro e do Or9amento, Departamentos de Estudos Econ6micos a Estatistica,
Organizar,9o e Informatica, Assuntos  Juridicos   e Centro de DocumentagAo e
Informacio do BM.
*  Aprovario dos contratos de fomecimento de hardware e software para o Banco de
Mo$ambique.
*  EstAgios, seminArios no Pais e no estrangeiro para quadros do BM, MPF e outras
institul;oes.
*  Cursos intensivos de Ingles para quadros do DEE e do MPF.
  Aquisi9io de equipamento grSfico para o CDI do BM.



Anpendix B
ig;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Page 3 of 4
* Apetrechamento das bibliotecas do MPF e BM em livros, publicag6es. peri6dicos e
outras publicag6es.
*  Criaco do Centro de ExploragAo de Sistemas do BM.
a  Ligasio do BM aos Mercados Financeiros Internacionais atraves do sistema SWIFT.
lntrodudAo no BM do correio electronico intemo a ligarao ao exterior via e-mail.
O Relat6rio Final (Project Completion Report) espelha com exactidao as duas fases
distintas que este Projecto atravessou e produz recomendag6as pertinentes para
eventuais apoios quo so pretenda conceder, no futuro, is areas abrangidas polo Projecto.
De facto, a determinacSo do Govemo e a entrega total dos quadros tecnicos nacionais
permitiram este salto qualitativo, mesmo com a consciencia de que o projecto estava a ter
o seu inicio numa fase muito conturbada do Pais, caracterizada por uma acentuada falta
de quadros qualificados e de meios basicos para o funclonamento das Instituir6es.
Foram superadas, a deficiAncia nas comunicaqao, burocracia na aprovarAo de contratos
por parte do Banco Mundial e do Minist6rlo do Plano e Finan$as a a dificuldade de
contratar assist6ncia t6cnica especializada.
A mudanra do Task Manager e o estabelecimento da Missao Residente do Banco Mundial
em Maputo, bem como as diversas Miss6es de Supervisao vieram dar outra dinamica ao
Projecto.
Apostou-se em grande escala na formnaXo de quadros de tal maneira que foi possivel a
curto prazo ter-se um leque de quadros recentementb admitidos no Ministerio do Plano e
Finanpas e Banco de Mocambique devidamente preparados para lidar com mat6rias
econ6micas; aumentou-se o numero de t6cnicos contabilistas encarregues de apresentar
contas suditiveIs A Direcio Nacional de Impolstos * Auditoria; a UTCP foi capacitada
para proster umr  asessoria altemente qualiflcadas  permanents i Direc9io Naclonal do
Plano * Orramento; o Centro de Oocurnenta9&o e Informaqio do Banco qe Mooanmbique
criou as condic6es para a produCAo de publicag6es Oitels para a anilis. e
acompanhamento da situagAo econ6mnica do Pais; criou-se o Centro de Exploragao de
Sistemas do BM e seu apretechamento com meios informaticos e quadros altamento
qualificados.
Tecnicos do Departamento de Estudos Economicos e Estatistica do BM receberam uma
forma9Ao avan9ada na Ligua inglosa, o quo contribuiu significativamente para a sua
preparaS.o adequada para as negoclag6es com o Fundo Monetario Internacional e outros
doadores a ag6ndas Internaclonals. 0 Banco de Moc,ambique conseguiu, tamb6m,
apotrechar, atrav6s deste Projecto, as Fillais da oiree o Nampula, com mobs informaticos,
viaturas e oquipamentos de comunicag6es.
Este quadro demonstra com toda ai clareza que a situarao prevalecente no inicio do
Projecto fol radicalmente mudada o quo os quadros formados constituem hoje um dos
sustentaculos da evolugio econ6mica para indices mais olevados da economia nacional.
O MPF e o 8M sao vistos hoje como duas das Institui96es com um desempenho marcante
em materias de fiscalidade. controle monetArio e garantes da disciplina financeira dos
organismos do Estado, empresas e Instituir6es financeiras.



VIco.                                                                  Appendix B
ewd                                                               Page 4 of 4
Pose embora o facto de alguns quadros nacionais do MPF formados no Ambito deste
Projecto estarem a ser aliclados para o sector privado a troco de melhores salkrios. 8
opinlhlo generalizads dos Respons6vels do Minist6rio quo estes t6cnicos estfio a contribuir,
ainda qua de forms indirecta, para o desenvolvimento do Pars.
A relevancia e Importancia da consolida9io destes resultados fizeram com que o Governo
e o Banco Mundial acordassem quo a sua consolidaqio era de caracter prioritario.
P nesta perspectiva que a continuidade do seu financiamento esta assegurada pelos
fundos do Projecto Financial Sector Capacity Building.
Maputo, 05 de Junho do 1998
d         USTO PAIS
Coordenador Geral



