Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2066 MOZ
                (Economic and Financial Management
                   Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 1, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2066 MOZ
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 1,  1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF  MOZAMBIQUE  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term:
     (a)  "BOM" means Banco de Mocambique, the Central Bank of the
Borrower;
     (b)  "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Special Account A"  and  "Special  Account  B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advances granted by the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  August  9, 1986, and November 7,
1986; and March 10, 1989  and  April 21, 1989 between the Borrower
and the Association;
     (e)  "Central Technical  Project  Unit"  or  "CTPU" means the
unit established within the National  Budget Directorate of MOF as
set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
     (f)  "fiscal year" or "FY"  means  the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  sixteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  two special accounts in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  Special Account A shall  be opened for the purposes
               of Parts A; C (1) (a); C  (2) (a); and C (3) (a) of
               the Project; and
         (ii)  Special Account B shall  be opened for the purposes
               of Parts B; C (1) (b); C  (2) (b); and C (3) (b) of
               the Project.
Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Accounts A and B shall
be made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 and 5,
respectively, to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1997 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year  shall  be  applied  from  the  next  date  in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing March 15,  2000  and  ending  September  15, 2029. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 15, 2009 shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of  some  or  all  of   the   increase  in  the  amounts  of  such
installments, the payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate agreed
with  the  Association  on  the  principal  amount  of  the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
Page  4
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, economic and  financial  managerial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The  Borrower  shall  implement the accounting
training program referred to in  Part  A  (3) in accordance with a
timetable agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out Part B (2) (a)
of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  install  and  operate the
computerized system on terms  and  within  a timetable agreed with
the Association, and to be  updated,  if necessary, as provided in
Section 3.05 (a) (iii) hereinafter.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than  November  30,  1990,  and not later than
November 30, of each year  thereafter, until the completion of the
Project,  conduct   with   the   Association   an  annual  Project
implementation review to:
          (i)  monitor progress in achieving Project objectives;
         (ii)  exchange information  among  staff  responsible for
               Project implementation and propose solutions to any
               current problems; and
        (iii)  update Project timetables and cost estimates; and
     (b)  promptly  thereafter,  carry  out  those recommendations
arising out of said reviews as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
     Section 3.06. In order to  facilitate the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall  assign  and retain qualified staff to
work closely with the consultants  to be employed under Section II
of Schedule 3  to  this  Agreement,  and  to receive training from
them.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project continue  to  maintain  in  a  form,  with  functions, and
staffing whose experience  and  qualifications are satisfactory to
the Association, as provided  for  in  paragraphs  1,  2, 3 and 4,
respectively, of Schedule 6 to this Agreement:
     (a)  MOF and BOM's Project Coordinators;
Page  5
     (b)  the Project Coordination Assistant;
     (c)  the Management Committees; and
     (d)  CTPU,
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph  (a)  of  this  Section  including  those for
               Special Accounts  A  and  B  for  each  fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Page  6
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that as a result of events  which  have occurred after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that MOF or BOM, as the
case may be, will be  able to perform their respective obligations
under said Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall  continue  for  a  period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have  been  given by the Association to
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that a  Project  Coordination Assistant with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to  the  Association has been selected
and contracted: (a) in  accordance  with the provisions of Section
II of Schedule 3  to  this  Agreement;  and (b) with the functions
described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that this Agreement has been
duly ratified  by  the  Borrower's  Council  of  Ministers  and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  The  Governor   of  Banco  de  Mocambique  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                         6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
                                              Facsimile:
                                                29718
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                          By /s/ Valeriano Ferrao
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                30,000        100% of foreign
     under                                    expenditures
     Part B (1) (e)
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment,                               100% of foreign
     vehicles,                                expenditures
     computers,
     software, and
     supplies:
     (a)  MOF                  200,000
     (b)  BOM                3,800,000
(3)  Consultants'                             100% of foreign
     services                                 expenditures
     including
     audits:
     (a)  MOF                1,100,000
     (b)  BOM                5,400,000
Page  8
                          Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)  Training:                                100% of foreign
                                              expenditures
     (a)  MOF:
     (i)  under                150,000
          Parts A(1);
          A(2); C(2)(a);
          and C(3)(a)
          of the Project;
     (ii) under Part A(3)      650,000
          of the Project;
     (b)  BOM:
          under Parts B;     1,120,000
          C(2)(b); and
          C(3)(b) of
          the Project
(5)  Operating                                100%
     costs:
     (a)  MOF                   30,000
     (b)  BOM                  410,000
(6)  Goods and                 110,000        100% of foreign
     services                                 expenditures
     under Parts
     A.2 (d), (e);
     and (f) of
     the Project
                          Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7)  Refunding of            1,000,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                         suant to Section
     tion Advance                             2.02 (c) of this
                                              Agreement
(8)  Unallocated             2,500,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  16,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the  term   "training"   means   costs  of  fellowships,
conferences, courses, study tours and training to be undertaken as
part of training and other  related  training costs to be financed
under the Project; and
Page  9
     (c)  the term "operating costs"  means costs of operation and
maintenance of  equipment,  vehicles  and  buildings  used  in the
execution of  the  Project  as  described  in  Schedule  2 to this
Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures under Category (4) (a) (ii):
          (i)  unless the Association has received, for its review
               and approval, a proposal  to carry out the account-
               ing training program referred to  in Part A (3) (a)
               of the  Project,  including  a  detailed budget and
               implementation timetable; and
         (ii)  unless  the   Association   has  received  evidence
               satisfactory to it that the Borrower has defined:
               (A)  the eligibility  conditions  to  enroll in the
                    accounting training program; and
               (B)  course  accreditation   and  arrangements  for
                    course facilities; and
     (c)  expenditures under Category  (6); unless the Association
has received evidence  satisfactory  to  it  that the Borrower has
taken all necessary measures to render CTPU operational, as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  strengthen  MOF  and  BOM's  capabilities  to  carry out
technical analysis in  the  areas  of economic policy formulation,
capital budgeting, and banking operations;
     (b)  define specific needs and  prepare long-term programs of
institutional support to MOF and BOM;
     (c)  increase the  stock  of  qualified  professionals in the
public sector in accounting and economic analysis; and
     (d)  increase productivity  and  effectiveness  by furnishing
MOF and BOM  with  basic  systems  and  equipment in the financial
sector and the production of basic economic information.
     The Project consists of  the  following parts subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:   Strengthening the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
1.   National Treasury Directorate
     Strengthening the capabilities  of  the Economic Analysis and
Price  Department  to  improve  the  collection  and  analysis  of
economic information:
     (a)  preparation  of  a  three-year  action  plan  and annual
work programs  of  economic  analysis  and  policy work, including
organizational, staffing and  training arrangements, detailed cost
estimates, budgets, and implementation arrangements;
     (b)  carrying out studies on  specific economic and financial
policy issues, including: reorganization  of local capital markets
Page  10
and the establishment of an appropriate interest rate structure;
     (c)  strengthening  of  the   Statistics  Department  of  the
National Treasury Directorate;
     (d)  acquisition of equipment, micro-computers and software;
     (e)  training of the staff of the Economic Analysis and Price
Department in operations and maintenance of computer systems;
     (f)  granting of fellowships  to  the  staff  of the Economic
Analysis and  Price  Department  to  undertake graduate university
training in economics, locally or abroad;
     (g)  review of the economic analysis function of the National
Treasury Directorate, including:  information  flows, economic and
financial analysis and economic policy recommendations;
     (h)  on-the-job  training  of  the   staff  of  the  Economic
Analysis and Price Department through ad-hoc courses; and
     (i)  assistance in  the  reorganization  and strengthening of
the Departments of the National Treasury Directorate.
2.   National Budget Directorate
     Strengthening of the  capital  budgeting  and control systems
through the establishment  and  operation  of  a Central Technical
Projects Unit (CTPU) within the National Budget Directorate:
     (a)  preparation of a three-year  action plan and annual work
plans for CTPU;
     (b)  design  and  installation   of  a  computerized  project
monitoring system to  assist  in  the  monitoring  of physical and
financial execution of investment projects;
     (c)  formulation  of  criteria   and  design  of  information
systems  for  selection,   analysis,   and  monitoring  investment
projects;
     (d)  granting  of  fellowships  to  train  the  staff  of the
National  Budget   Directorate   in   public  finance,  budgeting,
financial management and government accounting;
     (e)  acquisition of equipment,  micro-computers and software;
and
     (f)  training of the staff of the National Budget Directorate
in operations and maintenance of computer systems.
3.   Tax and Audit Directorate:
     Strengthening of the accounting system:
     (a)  design and  implementation  of  an  intensive accounting
training program for  public  sector  and  State Owned Enterprises
staff; and
     (b)  acquisition of equipment and didactic materials to carry
out the accounting training program.
Part B:   Strengthening the Bank of Mozambique (BOM)
1.   Economic Research Department
     (a)  preparation of a three-year  action plan and annual work
programs for the Economic Research Department;
     (b)  carrying out studies on  monetary and financial analysis
and policy issues, based on updated statistical information;
Page  11
     (c)  granting of fellowships  to  the  staff  of the Economic
Research Department  to  obtain  graduate  university  training in
economics and policy studies, locally and abroad;
     (d)  organization of specialized local training for BOM staff
in project analysis and formulation techniques;
     (e)  establishment, construction,  equipping,  furnishing and
acquisition of vehicles,  printed  materials  and supplies for the
Documentation Center; and
     (f)  training abroad of the staff of the Documentation Center
in library science techniques.
2.   Banking Operations:
     (a)  design,  installation,   acquisition   of  hardware  and
software for  the  operation  and  maintenance  of  a computerized
information system;
     (b)  acquisition of equipment and vehicles;
     (c)  acquisition,    installation    and    maintenance    of
communication systems;
     (d)  training of operational  staff  to  operate and maintain
hardware, software and communications equipment; and
     (e)  training of technical  and  managerial  staff in banking
operation systems.
3.   Legal Department:
     (a)  training  of  the  Legal  Department  staff  in contract
negotiation and other legal aspects of banking operations;
     (b)  granting of fellowships  to  legal  advisors  of BOM and
other  governmental  agencies  to  complete  their  legal  studies
locally or abroad;
     (c)  organization of,  and  attendance  to  seminars on legal
international banking issues;
     (d)  on-the-job training  of  legal  and  para-legal staff in
legal research and drafting techniques; and
     (e)  acquisition of one microcomputer, software, books, legal
journals and materials.
Part C:   Project Management:
1.   Provision of assistance to strengthen planning and managerial
capabilities related to Project implementation within:
     (a)  MOF; and
     (b)  BOM.
2.   Carrying out workshops  to  strengthen the organizational and
managerial  capabilities  of  the  staff  responsible  for Project
management within:
     (a)  MOF; and
     (b)  BOM.
3.   Training of staff  in  organizational planning and management
techniques within:
     (a)  MOF; and
Page  12
     (b)  BOM.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except  as  provided  in  Part  D  hereof,  goods  and  works
estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000  or more shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     Works under Part B(1)(e) of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   International or Local Shopping:
     Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,500,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Direct Contracting:
     (a)  spare parts; (b) proprietory supplies; and (c) books and
periodicals under Parts B.1 (e) and  B.2 (e) may be procured under
direct contracting, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such  contract  are  to  be made out of Special
Accounts A and B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out  of  Special  Accounts  A  and  B  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
Page  13
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of Special Accounts A and B, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Special Account A (MOF)
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) (a),
(3) (a), (4) (a),  (5)  (a),  and  (6)  set  forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $400,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into Special Account  A  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of Special  Account  A shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to replenish
Special Account A shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit into Special Account A
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of   Special  Account  A,  the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
Page  14
                for  deposits  into  Special  Account  A  at  such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                Special Account  A  such  amount  as  the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  Special   Account  A  for  eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  Special
Account A, the Borrower  shall,  at  such  time as the Association
shall  reasonably  request,   furnish   to  the  Association  such
documents and other evidence  showing  that  such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into Special Account A:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the  eligible  Categories  for  the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to  Section  5.02  of  the General Conditions
with respect to the Project,  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible  Categories for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  Special  Account  A:  (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the  Association  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into Special
Account A (or, if the Association  shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association  into  Special  Account  A  shall  be  made  until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  Special  Account  A  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  15
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into
Special Account A.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Special Account B (BOM)
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b), and  (5)  (b) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $600,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into Special Account  B  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of Special  Account  B shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to replenish
Special Account A shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit into Special Account B
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of   Special  Account  B,  the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for  deposits  into  Special  Account  B  at  such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                Special Account  B  such  amount  as  the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  Special   Account  B  for  eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  16
4.   For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  Special
Account B, the Borrower  shall,  at  such  time as the Association
shall  reasonably  request,   furnish   to  the  Association  such
documents and other evidence  showing  that  such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into Special Account B:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the  eligible  Categories  for  the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to  Section  5.02  of  the General Conditions
with respect to the Project,  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible  Categories for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account B as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  Special  Account  B:  (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the  Association  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into Special
Account B (or, if the Association  shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association  into  Special  Account  B  shall  be  made  until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  Special  Account  B  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
Special Account B.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                      Implementation Program
1.   Project Management
     (a)  The Minister of Finance  and  the  Governor of BOM shall
respectively appoint among the high-level  staff  of MOF and BOM a
Project Coordinator with  qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Association, as  the    responsible officer for the overall
Page  17
management of:
          (i)  Project Coordinator/MOF: Parts A;  C (1) (a), C (2)
               (a), and C (3) (a) of the Project; and
         (ii)  Project Coordinator/BOM: Parts B;  C (1) (b), C (2)
               (b), and C (3) (b) of the Project.
     (b)  The Project  Coordinators  shall  be  responsible, inter
alia, for:
          (i)  working in close coordination,  with each other and
               jointly, ensuring that  execution  of activities is
               consistent with the Project objectives set forth in
               Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
         (ii)  ensuring the  preparation  of  the  action plan and
               annual work programs  to  be  carried out under the
               Project, and submitting them to the Association for
               its approval;
        (iii)  supervising the  implementation  of  procurement of
               goods and services, as required by the Project;
         (iv)  ensuring  the  preparation  of  quarterly  progress
               reports, as agreed with the Association; and
          (v)  preparing  and  carrying  out  the  annual  Project
               implementation reviews pursuant  to Section 3.05 of
               this Agreement.
     (c)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (b)
above, the Project Coordinator/BOM shall act as the focal point in
communicating to and agreeing with  the Association on all matters
concerning the Project as a whole.
2.   Project Coordination Assistant (PCA)
     (a)  In  discharging   its   responsibilities,   the  Project
Coordinators shall be assisted by a Project Coordination Assistant
with qualifications and extensive managerial experience acceptable
to the Association, who shall be employed on a full-time basis and
report directly to the Project Coordinator/BOM.
     (b)  The  PCA  shall  be  responsible,  inter  alia  for  the
following:
          (i)  assisting   the   Project   Coordinators   in   the
               coordination of all  Project  activities within the
               government agencies responsible  for Project imple-
               mentation;
         (ii)  providing technical  and  administrative assistance
               to   the   Project   Coordinators   in   the  final
               preparation of all Project documentation;
        (iii)  providing assistance to  all  BOM  and MOF managers
               responsible for the  implementation of Project sub-
               components  in  discharging  their responsibilities
               under the Project and  participating as a member of
               the respective  Management  Committees,  as herein-
               after defined;
         (iv)  preparing and reviewing unified progress reports to
               be  considered  by  the  Project  Coordinators  and
               discussed  at  the   annual   Project  review,  (as
               provided for in  Section  3.05  of this Agreement),
               including an assessment  of  each Project component
               and an identification  of  any current issues which
               may interfere with timely Project implementation;
          (v)  participating in the selection of consultants to be
Page  18
               employed under the Project, and providing them with
               initial orientation;
         (vi)  reviewing technical studies and reports prepared by
               such   consultants   and   providing   comments  to
               respective sub-component managers;
        (vii)  keeping   financial   accounts   for   all  Project
               components,  and  ensuring  appropriate compilation
               and maintenance of Project documentation or files;
       (viii)  reviewing  procurement   arrangements  for  Project
               implementation,  including   packaging  procurement
               lots for equipment,  computer systems, hardware and
               software, printed material  and  office supplies to
               be financed under the Project;
         (ix)  assisting  in   directing   and   coordinating  the
               management training programs  for staff responsible
               for Project management; and
          (x)  assisting in the  review  of bids for international
               and local competitive  bidding and international or
               local shopping.
3.   Management Committees
     (a)  MOF
          (i)  A   Management   Committee    (MC/MOF)   shall   be
               established within MOF;
         (ii)  The MC/MOF shall consist of:
               -    the Project Coordinator/MOF (Chairperson);
               -    the Manager  of  the  respective  Project sub-
                    component; and
               -    the Project Coordination Assistant.
                    The   Chairperson   may   also   request   the
                    attendance  of  other  officials  and  experts
                    involved in Project implementation.
        (iii)  The MC/MOF shall be responsible for the following:
               -    reviewing the  annual  work  programs for each
                    Project sub-component  to  be  carried  out by
                    MOF;
               -    advising the sub-component managers on matters
                    pertaining to the  execution of the respective
                    sub-component; and
               -    reviewing progress  and  annual Project review
                    reports.
     (b)  BOM
          (i)  A   Management   Committee    (MC/BOM)   shall   be
               established within BOM.
         (ii)  The  MC/BOM  shall  have  the  same  composition as
               described in paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of this Schedule,
               and  shall  have   the   same  responsibilities  as
               described  in  paragraph   3   (a)  (iii)  of  this
               Schedule.
               Additionally, a Special  Management Committee shall
               be  established  within  BOM   on  terms  and  with
               functions  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the
Page  19
               Association.  The   Special   Management  Committee
               shall be responsible for  directing the work of the
               sub-component described in Part B.2 of the Project.
4.   Central Technical Project Unit (CTPU)
     CTPU to be established within the National Budget Directorate
of MOF shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
          (i)  establishing   criteria   and   assisting   in  the
               preparation and evaluation of investment projects;
         (ii)  carrying out physical  and  financial monitoring of
               projects; and
        (iii)  supporting in investment programming.
