Report No. 23650
Report No: i076837 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: JAMAICA         Project ID: P076837
Project: Jamaica Proposed National Community Development Project          Task Team
Leader: Thakoor Persaud
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 11, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m): 15.00
Bank Approval: May 6, 2002       IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSFU     Sector: UM - Urban Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Jamaicans are today suffering the effects of several adverse external
events (Post September 11 decline in tourism earnings, recent floods, low
demand for Jamaica's exports), and internal ones (high unemployment, poor
access to basic services, crime and violence and social-political
divisiveness). Many of these problems are inter-related. Based upon past
experience, upcoming national elections in 2002 are expected to exacerbate
an already fragile situation. The primary objectives of the proposed
project are to:   (a)  provide basic services and at the same time, help
generate temporary employment within areas which are most affected by the
above problems and (b) assist the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) in its
current effort to promote greater social and community development,
especially among the poor.
The Government has already received Bank assistance through a US$75
million Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan (ERL) to help with
declining public revenues and increased investments needed for
tourism-related security measures and for financing of its pre-September
11 investment program. To achieve the first goal mentioned above, about
half of the funds of the proposed National Community Development Project
will be used to finance a backlog of social infrastructure works through
companies contracted through the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF).
The other half of the funds will be used to finance priority community
works which are determined through Community Development Plans (CDPs) and
implemented through Community Based Contracts (CBCs).
I.A.3. Project Description:
Basic Infrastructure. The proposed project will finance repairs,
renovation expansion and installation of minor basic infrastructure works
which are needed to improve service quality and access for the target
population. Included in this category are local distribution networks for
water/sanitation storage and distribution systems and connections;
bottleneck sections of streets, roads, paths, walkways, small bridges;
minor drainage systems and similar tasks.
Social Superstructure Facilities. This component includes works to



improve facilities which are used to provide a variety of services which
are needed by the target communities. These include repairs,
rehabilitation, renovation, expansion and construction and equipping of
schools; health centers; day-care centers; community centers; homes for
children, the elderly and disabled; training facilities; parks, sports and
recreation areas; public sanitary facilities (community latrines, showers)
and similar amenities.
Social Services and Employment Assistance. Included in this category will
be career guidance and job placement; counseling (including
conflict-resolution and drug abuse programs); parenting and family-life
education; skills training and assistance for both able and disabled
groups.
TA and Institutional Strengthening.     This includes financing for
Technical Assistance, training and strengthening programs to the various
entities which would be involved in the proposed project.
Components:
Basic Infrastructure
Social Superstructure Facilities
Social Services
TA and Institutional Strengthening
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Nationwide
B. Check Environmental Classification: ERROR: Invalid UNID; UNID must be
a 32-digit hex string.
Comments: The proposed project will support multiple small sub-projects,
as such the size and nature of these projects are not expected to have a
negative environmental impact nor any involuntary resettlement activity.
Moreover, built into the project-cycle evaluation procedures were
environmental assessment provisions and TA was provided to JSIF to develop
policies and procedures. Sub-projects with resettlement are rejected in
the screening process.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
- 2 -



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment. Guidelines for environmental screening and review of
infrastructure and construction sub-projects have been incorporated into
the project cycle. While these are generally generic, they are currently
in the process of being updated and elaborated. JSIF will retain
responsibility during technical appraisal to ensure the subproject meets
the environmental guidelines. Due to the size of the projects, no large
scale/irreversible negative impacts expected.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
After reviewing the current arrangements, a decision will be made as to
what additional actions will be needed.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Residents of low-income communities will be active participants during all
phases of the project cycle. Through Community Development Committees,
they will work with different partners who are geared to assist them and
to ensure that all members of the community have an equal opportunity of
being heard in the formulation of the Community Development Plans.
Furthermore, through Community Based Contracting, these residents will be
able to have continued control of the proposals they developed and they
will have greater opportunities to more actively interact as a community
and as a lobbying force before the ministries and parish authorities.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
-3 -



limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      2/28/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Environmental procedures are embodied in JSIF's Operational Manual. This
is available upon request.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Thakoor Persaud February 6, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Yewande Awe
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         February 7, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Danny M. Leipziger       February 7, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



