E622
Jamaica Social Investment Fund Environmental Guidelines
1.0     Overview
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund Environmental Guidelines are designed to ensure that the Guiding
principle of Environmental Soundness of all JSIF infrastructure projects in adhered to and these
guidelines form an annex to the JSIF Operations Manual. This principle states that:
"Projects funded by JSIF must conform with the Government of Jamaica's Environmental Regulations and
have minimum negative impact on the natural and cultural environment" ( JSIF Operations Manual July
2002, Chapter 2, Guiding Principles")
The guidelines also call for an integrated approach to project design and implementation, where the
analysis of environmental issues is not an "add-on" activity, but an integral part of the technical
soundness of the project. The guidelines present over-riding environmental principles and the
regulations that project must adhere to as general guidelines as well as specific guidelines for the design
and implementation of specific project types, according to each stage of the JSIF project cycle.
As these guidelines form part of operational procedures, they also assume the other guiding principles of
community participation and consultation in the process, technical soundness, transfer of learning,
sustainable development focus, poverty eradication and cost-effectiveness.
These guidelines have been developed for use by the Technical Officers involved in the design and
implementation of JSIF Sub-Projects and form part of the technical analysis processes required for
successful implementation of JSIF Interventions.
1.1     A. JSIF Project Menu
These guidelines apply to the full list of infrastructure project types accommodated under the JSIF Sub-
project menu as detailed in Chapter 4, Box 3 of the Operations Manual, which cover the construction,
rehabilitation and equipping of:
*       Basic schools, primary schools and all age schools
*       Small roads in agricultural areas, bridge approaches, small bridges, foot bridges, retaining walls,
drains
*       Urban access roads
*       Gullies
*       Small scale water schemes (<2000 people)
*       Ministry of Health approved Health Centres (Types 1 and 2)
[ Type 1 and 2 Health Centres provide services but do not admit patients, persons with illnesses requiring admission are sent to
regional hospitals. The services offered are as follows:
Type 1 - Serves 2,000 - 4,000 people.
Provides: 1. Maternal and child helath services (antenatal. postnatal, child health, immunization, nutrition monitoring and support)2.
Health promotion/educatoin and community participation
Type 2 - As in Type I plus
1. Health promotion and illness prevention (veterinary public health and foold, hygiene/food handlers clinics, water quality, solid
liquid and excreta disposal)
2. Surveillance and Disease Control (specific communicatble diseases e.g. TB and Hansens, malaria and childhood diarrhoeal
disease, STDs, other communicable diseases, rheumatic fever prophylaxis)
3. Curative Services (common medical conditions, STDs, acutre and chronic diseases
4. Dental services (visiting)
Source: Ministry of Health
]



*      Community Resource Centres
*      Skills Training Centres and Business Incubators
a      Facilities for Community Tourism development
*      Play and recreation areas in inner-cities
*      Small sports facilities
*      Offices/meeting facilities/income generation facilities for inner-city CBOs
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund does not implement housing projects or projects
that involve the relocation of individuals or communities.
B. Precautionary measure in project selection
All JSIF infrastructure sub-projects will comply with donor requirements environmental management for
projects assigned. As such:
(i) any World Bank-financed sub-projects that will result in conversion of
natural habitats will be evaluated to ensure compliance with the World Bank's
Natural Habitats Operational Policy 4.04.
(ii) for any World Bank-financed sub-projects that procure pesticides or
result in the increased use of pesticides, an appropriate Pesticides Management
Plan will be developed, as required by the World Bank's Pest Management
Operational Policy 4.09, which would include non-chemical measures for pest
management and guidelines for proper selection, application, storage, handling,
transport, and disposal of pesticides.
(iii) sub-projects which belong to the World Bank's environmental category 'A', according to the World
Bank's Operational Policy 4.01, will be included in a 'negative list' of
sub-projects which will not be eligbible for financing by the World Bank. This negative list applicable will
include such sub-projects as:
*      Construction of any new roads.
*      Major upgrading or realignment of roads ("major" means changing the road category, such as
from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to primary; adding new lanes; or changing road surface)
*      Improvement and rehabilitation of any existing roads within 5 kilometers of any protected areas or
any other areas of natural forest
*      Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
*      Irrigation works with incremental command areas exceeding 200 hectares
*      Flood protection, sewage treatment, agricultural drainage, or other works which could adversely
affect wetlands or natural waterways, either through pollution or hydrological changes.
*      Use of pesticides on the World Health Organization's Hazardous Pesticides List which are not
recommended.
*      Aquaculture using non-native species in natural water bodies.
*      Works which would adversely affect cultural property, including archaeological and historical sites
*      Activities that negatively affect natural protected areas recognized by federal, state or municipal
governments (or buffer zones thereof)
*      Land reclamation such as drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create land.
*      Purchase or lease of land which has unclear titles
*      Land clearance and leveling (when affecting critical natural habitats and natural land contours,
natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most of the original plant and
animal species are still present).
*      Hazardous waste management and disposal as well as manufacture, transport and use of
hazardous, and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of solvents, degreasing materials, paints, fuels,
and the like used during construction).



1.2    The National Legal and Institutional context - Environmental Management in Jamaica
"The Ministry of Land and the Environment is the Ministry with the executive mandate to govern
Jamaica's natural environment. The most recent initiative of the government was recognition that urban
and rural planning must be done within the context of the wider thrust of environmental management,
and to this end government has established the National Environment and Planning Agency. This new
agency represents an amalgamation of the Natural Resources Conservation Authority which has a
statutory mandate for the conservation, protection and proper management of the natural resources of
Jamaica; the Town and Country Planning Authority which has the statutory mandate to ensure the
orderly planning of Jamaica and the Land Development and Utilization Commission with a statutory
mandate to ensure that prime agricultural lands are kept in agricultural production in the interests of inter
alia food security and self sustainability". 'Jamaica's Commitment To The Conservation And Management
Of Natural Resources Ten Years in Retrospect'; Unpublished Paper, National Environmental and
Planning Agency; Kingston, Jamaica
The legislation relevant to projects of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund are:
*      The Natural Resource Conservation Authority Act
*      The Public Health Act
*      The Clean Air Act
*      The National Heritage Trust Act
*      The Town and Country Planning Act
*      The Local Improvements act
*      The Land Development and Utilisation Act
*      The Water Resources Authority Act
There are also a number of policies being developed which will have application in JSIF
interventions. These include:
*      Revision of the Jamaica National Environmental Action Plan
*      The Draft National Environmental Policy
*      Towards a National Policy and Strategy on Environmental Management Systems
*      The National Sustainable Development Plan
An Environmental Impact Assessment process has been put in place by NEPA with clear guidelines on
implementing EIAs under the NRCA Act. The Act requires an environmental impact assessment of
developments with in prescribed areas.
Under directives from the National Policy level, JSIF sub-projects will require permits under the Permit
and Licence System as follows:
*      Building permission to expand buildings
*      License to discharge trade effluent and sewage
*      Permits for Eco-tourism projects
*      Permits for Pipelines and conveyers
*      Permits for Solid Waste Treatment and disposal facilities
1.3   JSIF and Environmental Management



Environmental management within the JSIF falls under the purview of the Operations Department as part
of the Project Development and Implementation process, under the Policy directions approved by the
Board of Directors.
Technical Officers within the Operations Department, under the supervision of the Operations Manager
and under the guidance of the Environmental Advisor are therefore responsible for ensuring the
maintenance of environmental standards throughout the Project Cycle, based on these guidelines.
1.4    Th7e En vironmental/Impact of JS5F projects
Positive
There are a number of positive impacts of JSIF sub-projects to physical environmental in the communities
in which they are situated. In keeping with principles of sustainable development and holistic planning
where the environment is defined as the physical, biological, social and economic factors of life, the
projects will have the effect of:
i.     Eliminating environmental safety hazards from deteriorating structures
ii.   Improving environmental health through water, sanitation and health infrastructure
iii.   The creation of temporary employment opportunities and long-term income generation
iv.    The provision of social services that were previously not available
v.    Improved learning environments and access to education and non-formal training
vi.    Improved living conditions in poor communities
Negative
Most of the negative impacts associated with Sub-projects are likely to occur during construction and
rehabilitative works on roads, buildings, drainage, water and sanitation projects and where designs are
inadequate. These tend to be minor and are easily identified and mitigated and determination of these
potential impact forms and integral part of the analysis of the technical feasibility of the projects. In
keeping with the principles of technical and environmental soundness however, adequate technical
review, through peer review and using technical advisors, must take place to ensure adequacy of
designs.
Negative impacts will also occur during operation particularly with relation to disposal of solid and sewage
waste, where there is improper operational and maintenance procedures in place. These issues must
also be factored into the technical analysis of the projects at the design phase.
Even with adequate planning and design, there are risks of impacts during implementation where
guidelines are not followed at a supervisory level. All contracts and Terms of Reference for formulators,
supervisors and contractors must therefore clearly show deliverables with the relation to implementation
of mandated environmental procedures. Potential impacts include:
i.     Unnecessary removal of vegetation cover
ii.    Creation of soil slippage and soil erosion conditions from excavation and inappropriate placing of
excavated matter on hillslopes
iii.   Blockage of drains from construction waste and excavated materials
iv.    Water contamination during construction on all project types or during operation of inadequate
sewage facilities
v.     Excessive run-off where drainage on roads and off buildings is inadequate.
vi.    Inappropriate disposal of solid waste
vii.  Interruption of vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow or access to amenities.
2.0    General Guidelines for Infrastructure Projects



I. Proiect Design
1.     The project must be designed to minimize tree taking and damaging. When the project will
result in clearing of land or cutting trees, at least the same number of trees must be replanted on or near
the facility.
2.     Site Selection
The land on which a building is to be located must comply with the zoning requirements of the
National Environmental Planning Agency and relevant planning legislation. It must also be well
drained, aesthetically landscaped and secure, especially if very small children are involved. All
relevant permits and no objections from relevant agencies must be obtained.
(i)   In rehabilitation projects, when an existing building does not comply with the
guideline above. Rehabilitation must, whenever possible include drainage,
security and landscape of the area as well as the building itself and testing for
hazardous materials such as asbestos and lead;
(ii)  In rehabilitation projects, when an existing building is located on unsuitable land,
the JSIF shall not approve the project. The following are considered to be
unsuitable lands:
(a)    land resulted from fill up with any refuse matter that is contaminated by human or animal excreta
or any other hazardous material;
(b)    wetlands and flood plains;
(c)    Protected Areas where approval has not been obtained
(d)    steep (more than 30% declivity) and unstable slopes susceptible to slippage.
3.     Any road rehabilitation project must comply with the minimum technical standards of the relevant
Parish authority to which the road will be handed over to and required no objections obtained.
4.    In rehabilitation/expansion or construction projects the technical and financial feasibility of using
traditional architecture and simple technologies and materials must be assessed, and simple, traditional
style and materials adopted when suitable. A comparative assessment of environmentally friendly
materials and techniques should also be adopted where suitable, based on comparisons of techniques
and long-term cost-benefit analysis. This applies to any building, road, water and sanitation project.
5.     All buildings should be well designed to provide security and at the same time to be attractive
and well ventilated and make best use of natural lighting.
6.     Adequate space and facilities for recreation inside and outside of a school must be designed
accordingly and whenever possible, budget for its construction must be ensured in the project.
7.     Sanitary Systems
Appropriate sanitation systems must be designed and installed; proper disposal systems must be
functioning: it must also be determined if there is a need to provide training in environmental
awareness to users Awareness by users of sanitary systems is required whenever new systems are
installed which are different from the ones they are used to. This is particularly needed when flushing toilets



are introduced to new users. In many cases it has been reported that flush toilets were used to grow plants
because new users did not get accustomed to using them.
(i)    Sanitary facilities must be suitable to the local and ground conditions.
(ii)   Sanitary facilities must be provided in sufficient number
(iii)            In order to avoid surface water contamination, when public facilities for
sewage treatment are not provided, effluent should not be discharged into surface waters
without adequate treatment: to avoid ground water contamination, effluent must be
treated in a septic tank (minimum efficiency of 700/a reduction of BOD); the absorption
tank is not efficient in preventing groundwater contamination.
(iv)   The site where the sanitary facility is to be installed must have a low water table.
(v)    If sanitary facilities use alternative technologies such as Ventilated Improved Pits
(VIP) latrines and others, it must be located at least 15 meters from existing
buildings and houses, in the opposite direction of the prevailing winds, to prevent
odours and undesirable impacts.
(vi)   When an external latrine vent pipe exists, it must be located at the sunny side of the latrine and
painted black, to produce an updraft, due to the heating of the air inside the vent: an external cover at
the top of the vent pipe will prevent flies and mosquitoes from coming out the vent and therefore will
reduce the risk of contamination.
(vii)  All required approval and permits must be obtained and the relevant agencies (NWC, NEPA etc)
informed and involved in the development of the project
8.     Adequate water supply must be provided:
(i)    Adequate structures for water storage must be provided.
(ii)   Rainwater can be collected, stored and used for sanitary facilities.
(iii)  The storage structure must be located (about 25 meters) from, the absorption tank, septic tank
or other similar facility, and upstream the direction of the water table flow if the storage facility is
underground it can be contaminated by groundwater contaminated with effluent or by effluent directly, in case an
absorption tank is located nearby.
9.     Hazard Mitigation
(i)    Fire Control: Safety precautions against fire must be assessed, implemented, documented and
functional at all times and water supply for fire hoses must be secured. Note that:
(a)    Evacuation and fire extinguishing procedures must be approved by the fire department or a
similar institution
(b)    Fire disaster preparedness should be addressed in organisational strengthening exercises and in
maintenance training



(ii)   Natural disaster mitigation: The design of all infrastructure projects must accommodate the
potential occurrence of a natural disaster and as such include the necessary mitigation measures to
ensure minimum damage from disaster events. This includes but not exclusive to:
(a)    Earthquake mitigation: Designs must uphold the minimum building standards recommended for
Jamaica as indicated by the Building Code.
(b)    Storm mitigation: This includes heavy rain, storm surges, tropical storms, hurricanes mitigation
measures for strong winds and high levels of precipitation and runoff. Road and building designs must
therefore have adequate drainage measures and buildings and other structures must maintain the
minimum standards under the Building Code for wind resistance.
(iii)  Safety: Care must be taken to ensure that designs promote a safe work site and safe operation
of the facility. The following must be considered:
(a)    Materials: No toxic paints or construction materials (e.g., lead-based paints, amianthus,
asbestos) may be used within the buildings or on water supply projects
(b)    Site Safety: Designs must factor in terrain and other potential areas of danger that my lead to
an unsafe work site. Where there is potential for danger on a site, cautions and recommendations for
safe implementation must be outlined.
II.    Construction
10.    Dust and noise during construction works should be minimised:
(i)   In residential areas, if works are conducted in the dry season, the contractor must water the
exposed area and construction materials either stored or transported must be covered to avoid
particulate matter to be blown by the wind
(ii)   Communities must be given adequate notice of intended construction and potential for dust and
blockage of access to roads or community facilities during construction
(iii)  When sand is used to fill in land or to level a site it must be capped with clay turf, whenever
possible. If this solution is not viable, spraying the area with water can minimize dust blown by the wind.
(iv)   Construction work must be limited to daylight hours, from approximately 6:00 am to 8:00 pm, or
according to local or specific regulations.
(v)    Blasting to break up rocks will be conducted during daylight and residents will be advised when
blasting will occur. The local regulatory authority should certify the person conducting this activity.
11.    Adequate measures for preventing siltation of watercourses by run-off must be implemented,
such as silt screens and straw devices, among others.
12.    Safety measures must be taken to prevent accidents involving workers and members of the
community.
13.    Clearing of trees and other vegetation must be minimal
14.    All waste must be disposed of in environmentally sound ways and at dumpsites approved by the
relevant Parks and Markets Authority.
15.    All sewage disposal facilities are required to be adequate and fully functional and the end of
construction



16.    Penalties are to be instituted for breach of guidelines mandated by JSIF
III.   ODeration and Maintenance
13.    Sanitary Facilities:
(i)    Environmental awareness and maintenance training to users will be provided on all sanitation
projects.
(ii)   Latrine pits, absorption tanks or septic tanks must be cleaned regularly, according to JSIF's
Operation and Maintenance Manual for infrastructure project. Where technologies such as biodigesters
or composting toilets are being used, specific training must take place to ensure ongoing functioning of
these systems.
14.    Solid Waste Management:
(i)    Solid waste will be collected and disposed of in an appropriate manner and on a regular basis,
according to the JSIF's Operation and Maintenance Manual for infrastructure projects.
(ii)   Wastes must be stored in a covered garbage storage unit, designed in accordance to current
NEPA guidelines and protected from the access by animals.
(iii)         When appropriate landfill is not provided by the local government or the sponsor
community, the JSIF will develop a waste management manual provide the sponsor community with
(which will become part of the Operation and Maintenance Manual). This manual will include self-
sustained waste management plans that includes alternative solutions for adequate disposal of organic
wastes and garbage, and potential uses for recycled materials, waste collection campaigns and other
environmental awareness activities to be developed with the students and the community Burning or,
covering with earth are common practice for waste disposal in rural areas. The appropriate alternative will be provided in the JSIF
Operation & Maintenance Manual..
15.    Buildings and other physical structures:
(i)    Maintenance training must be done with users to ensure care of the structure and avoidance of
physical danger due to deterioration or lack of maintenance, particularly in the case of schools,
community centres, water supplies and small bridges.
3.0    Specific Guidelines by Project Sub-type
All Project Sub-types assume the General Guidelines in addition to the type-specific guidelines listed
below and the procedure required during each stage of the Project Cycle as outlined in Section 4.0.
1.     Roads
Design Phase
1.     Roads must be designed and constructed so that they do not impede the free flow of intervening
water ways:
(i)    At design phase, the grade of road must be established above the level of the existing
drains



(ii)   In case the existing road crosses a waterway, the design for rehabilitation must include
culverts to allow the free flow of water.  Size of culverts must be designed to
accommodate a 30-year storm event.
2.     Capped and uncapped roads must be designed and constructed so that water does not stand
over long periods either on the road (in surface depressions) or at the sides or base.
(i)   In case the size of the existing drains are not sufficient to ensure free water flow
of a 30 year storm event, their enlargement must be included in the
rehabilitation design;
(ii)   If existing drains are blocked by vegetation or silt, clearing must be included in
the rehabilitation project.
3.     Bridges design must include re-vegetation of shoulders using native vegetation to reduce erosion.
4.     The shoulder declivity must be designed according to the soil characteristics.
Construction Phase
5.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and
implemented using JSIF's Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and monitoring and must
ensure the following:
(i)    Defined grades must be correctly set in place
(ii)   No depressions must be left in the surface of the road
(iii)  Drains must be unblocked and correctly sized, as in the project design.
6.    Erosion control measures must be implemented accordingly to project design:
(i)    Exposed road shoulders must be vegetated early with native species, appropriate
to the site to reduce the impact of raindrop erosion
(ii)   Erosion (silt/sediment) barriers must be in place and functional throughout
construction.
7.   There must be a satisfactory system of regular collection and disposal of waste and garbage;
during constructin- works the contractor must ensure that:
(i)    Materials are stored in such a way that will not be carried by rains and/or run-off
water-s into the drains
(ii)  -Garbage and construction wastes are collected and disposed in appropriate sites
-in- a -way that -ensureFthat they will not be carried into the drains or discharged
int etlands or in sensitive vegetation communities;
(iii)  Measures are implemented to avoid spills of lubricants, fuels and other
chemicals, and in the event of an accidental spill, clean up is clone immediately



(iv)   After construction works are concluded the contractor must clear the area from
all equipment, machines and wastes (liquids or solid)
(v)    Whenever the sponsoring community does not provide an adequate
site for waste disposal, the contractor shall follow the guidelines JSIF' will
develop for waste disposal
Operation and Maintenance
8.     Operations and Maintenance should follow JSIF's Operational and Maintenance Manual for
Infrastructure Projects. Particular attention needs to be paid to:
i.     Erosion control
ii.    Drainage
iii.   Clearing and mitigating against land-slippage (within the capabilities of the community e.g. minor
retaining walls, major works are the responsibility of the relevant authority.
2.     Infirmaries. Health Centres and Similar Facilities
Project Design
1.     Ministry of Health Standards for Design of Type 1 and 2 Health Centres must be applied to all
JSIF Health Centre projects
2.     Optimum sanitation must be maintained at all times. Cleanliness of utensils and equipment is
paramount:
(i)    Water supply facilities must include running water. When public water supply is
not available on site, the project must consider, whenever technical and
economically feasible, drilling a well or other alternative to provide potable water
to the centre, including storage of rain water and roof drain water.
(ii)   When public water supply is not available and no other alternative is technically
and economically feasible, the JSIF must consider not financing the project.
(iii)  Medical wastes must be disposed though approved Ministry of Health facilities or
techniques.
Construction Phase
3.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and
implemented using JSIF's Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and Monitoring.
Operation and Maintenance
4.     Operations and Maintenance should follow JSIF's Operational and Maintenance Manual for
Infrastructure Projects. Particular attention needs to be paid to:
i.     Maintenance of ventilation i.e. functioning secure windows
ii.    Pest control - particularly in bathrooms and kitchen/dining areas
iii.   Landscaping - ensuring safe, aesthetically pleasing surroundings



iv.    Disaster preparedness - for hurricanes, flooding and fire
v.     Waste disposal - safe disposal of medical and other wastes
3.     Sanitary Facilities (latrines)
Site Selection and Project Design
1.     Pit latrines should be avoided due to (i) odour and insect (flies and mosquitoes) problems; (ii)
risks of contamination by pathogens (virus, protozoa and helminths) transmitted by excreta; (iii) risk of
small children falling into pits; (iv) where the water table is high
2.     Pit latrines with adequately designed septic tanks and absorption pits are recommended when
there is (i) inadequate water supply to support water closets (ii) where soil absorption rates ensure
proper and safe diffusion of waste water (ii) where there is no potential for contamination of ground
water supplies.
3.     Other alternative sanitation technologies, such as ventilated improved latrines (VIP latrines),
should be considered appropriate only when flushing toilets are not technically and economically feasible.
4.     The sanitary facility must be installed in a site that (i) has a low water table (ii) is located down
stream any water body source: (iii) is located at least 100 meters form any water body.
Construction Phase
5.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and JSIF's
Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and monitoring.
Operation and Maintenance
6.     Operation & maintenance must comply with the General guidelines presented as well as with
JSIF's Manual for Operation and Maintenance of Infrastructure Projects.
4.     Sanitary Facilities (community showers)
Site selection and project design
1.     Before the sanitary facility is designed it must be ensured that the site where it is to be installed
is located downstream any-water body source.
2.     Community showers must be located at least 15 meters from existing buildings and houses.
3.     The community shower must be installed inside a well-ventilated and well-drained super
structure.
4.     The area surrounding the superstructure must be adequately landscaped, secure and well
drained.
5.     The size and number of showers must comply with JSIF's design guidelines



Construction Phase
6.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and JSIF's
Environmental Handbook for Construction supervision and Monitoring.
Operation and Maintenance
7.     Operations and Maintenance should follow JSIF's Operational and Maintenance Manual for
Infrastructure Projects. Particular attention needs to be paid to:
a.     Maintenance of plumbing and water supply
b.     Cleanliness of facility
c.     Maintenance of security measures
5.     Drainage
Project Design
1.     Project design must follow the general guidelines as well as the specified procedures outlines for
appraisal of projects in Section 4.0.
Construction Phase
2.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and JSIF's
Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and Monitoring.
3.     Vegetation and silt materials recovered from dredging must be securely, disposed, in order to
avoid being brought back to canals and drains, by runoff and rains.
4.     During dredging, unauthorised persons must be prevented from approaching working areas by
the installation of protecting devices, in order to avoid or minimise risks of accidents involving the
community.
6.     Water Proiects
1.    It must be verified that requirements for protecting the water source from contamination are
adopted.
2.     The delivery of safe potable water must be ensured: materials used in the pipeline must
ensure that no leaks will threaten the delivery of safe potable water.
a.     Site selection and protect design
3.     Crater source must be located upstream any possible source of crater pollution and protected
from contamination by a superstructure.
4.     Project Application must require physical and bacteriological analysis of the water from the water
source, which is intended to be used.



5.    In case the water is not adequate for human consumption, the JSIF must consider not financing
the project.
b.     Construction phase
Excavation works must be made whenever possible during the dry season, to avoid erosion and siltation
of drainage canals or other water bodies in the area.
7.     During construction works, unauthorised persons must be prevented from approaching working
areas by the installation of protecting devices, in order to avoid or minimize risks of accidents
involving the community.
c. Operation and Maintenance
9.     All infra and superstructure must be permanently maintained in adequate operating conditions.
9.     Water source and water pipes must be continuously monitored to ensure that no contamination
has occurred.
7.     Aaro-processina Facilities
1. Waste products must not be deposited in watercourses, wetlands or in sensitive  vegetation
communities.
2.     Waste Crater and processing effluent must be treated to reduce contaminants and not be
discharged directly to water bodies, wetlands, or in sensitive vegetation communities.



4.0    Environmental monitoring and the JSIF Project Cycle
Addressing environmental issues will form an integral part of the technical analysis of every JSIF
infrastructure project throughout the project cycle. The following is a breakdown of the environmental
review inputs in the project cycle, and the relevant environmental appraisal procedures.
Fioure 1:     Diagram of Environmental InRuts in the JSIF Community Proiect Cycle
n S:un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iet                        U*V--4cu 
1.1 Generating            2. Screening
eLPojen                        intProject                                    ~technic l
ApproiM   Documents                                      i~~~~~~~~~~~ndcsuder fr
rat~ ~ ~~~dntfe bastaed s,%suoeratono
consultants TOR  ~~tdance
7~PojcinpIe'tatin            8.Poetomltn                              ject Aectnicitie



Project Concept Development
During the project concept development field visit, project officers are to determine the type of
environmental appraisal necessary for each project. This determination is to be done using the
generalized screening environmental checklist (Annex 1) as part of the technical evaluation of the project.
The checklist indicates which one of four possible environmental approaches is to be taken for each
project. These possible approaches are:
*      No further environmental appraisal.
*      An Environmental Review (ER).
*      An Environmental Assessment (EA).
*      An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
The chosen approach for each project will then be undertaken during the appraisal of the project. The
decision on an approach at the screening level will be guided by:
*      The proximity to and potential impact on a natural habitat (particularly that of animals of
importance) a Protected Area or water course
*      Determination of the height of the water table for potential effect on all types of construction and
on design and operation of sewage systems.
*      Potential for increased run-off, soil erosion, stream siltation and excessive dust at various stages
of the project
*      General analysis of the terrain including slope-angle, rock and soil type and slope stability,
vegetation cover
*      General analysis of localized climatic conditions
*      Available methods of solid and liquid waste
*      Vulnerability of the site to natural disasters
Project Design
Each of the possible environmental appraisal procedures is described below.
An Environmental Review (ER)
This is a basic environmental assessment, to be conducted using a generic review form applicable to all
types of projects requiring an ER, this can be done during the project concept development field visit.
The completed form will indicate the possible negative environmental impacts of the project, and will
prescribe the necessary mitigation measures to be employed.  Field officers are to develop the
appropriate mitigation measures with the help of the generalized list of mitigation measures provided on
returning to the office. All completed ER forms with their proposed mitigation measures are to be
reviewed and approved by the Environmental Advisor and place on the project file. An ER is not meant to
be a lengthy or time-consuming process, and is to be integrated into social and technical appraisal
procedures.
An Environmental Assessment (EA)
This is a more detailed environmental review, and takes the format of a semi-structured report. The EA
is project type-specific, and is to be conducted using the EA form. The completed report gives a very
brief overview of the project and describes the physical, biological and socio-economic environments
related to the project. The EA form itemizes the activities associated with the project, their possible
impacts and their appropriate mitigation measures. The information needed to formulate the necessary
mitigation measure is to be obtained from the corresponding action-impact-mitigation form.  All
completed EA forms with their proposed mitigation measures are to be reviewed and approved by the
Environmental Advisor. A field visit is required for an EA, and the completion of an EA form requires



special time allocation. Information outputs from the EA are to be provided to the Design Consultant for
reference, as an appendix to the Terms of Reference.
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
This is a detailed and comprehensive process that usually requires the efforts of a multi-disciplinary team
for an explicit analysis. As such, the conducting of an EIA will require the contracting of consultants
under a specific Terms of Reference (Annex X - TOR outline). The output of an EIA is to be a document
that specifies all the possible environmental implications of the project, and provides detailed mitigation
measures. The mitigation measure recommended are to form part of the scope of work of the Design
consultants Terms of Reference and a copy of the EIA report will be provided to the Design consultant for
reference.
Approval
Approval of a project by the Board of Directors should only take place when the environmental appraisal
process is complete. The members of the Board should have available to them all information and
options required for them to approve a project.
Contracting
In order to maintain the integrity of the environmental considerations given prior to contracting, the
proposed mitigation measures should be provided by the technical officer and included within clauses of
the contracting documents of the supervisors and contractors. Also to be included within the contracting
document are penalties for non-compliance to mitigation measures by contractors and/or supervising
consultants. As the mitigation measures for each project will vary, the wording within contracts will be
specific to each project, and are to be developed by the Environmental Advisor with the aid of the legal
advisor.
Supervision
During the implementation stage of the project JSIF officers are to consider the environmental mitigation
measures prescribed during appraisal and contracting and monitor the supervisor's adherence ensuring
implementation of these measures. Project specific checklists (provided in the JSIF Environmental
Handbook for Supervision and Monitoring of Construction) that outline the mitigation measures are to be
used by the officers to monitor and ensure that the prescribed mitigation measures are being enforced.
Evaluation
In order to assess the effectiveness of the overall environmental approach of the project cycle, post
project evaluation also needs to be conducted. Projects that have undergone ER and EA can be selected
at random, and evaluated by a site inspection using a checklist of the environmental objectives of the
project. A site visit and evaluation are required for all projects that have undergone an EIA.



Annexes
N.B. These Checklists are to be integrated into the general technical evaluation checklists used by
Officers and form part of the Field Officers Hand-book.



Annex I: Generalized Screening Environmental Checklist
Project Type                                     Recommended Environmental
Appraisal (tick)
NoneEREAEIA
Roads
New Rural Roads
Rural Road Rehabilitation
Drinking Water/Water Supply
Less than 100 persons
More than 100 persons
Schools
New
Rehabilitation
Health Centres
New
Rehabilitation
Community Centre/Homes for children & aged
New
Rehabilitation
Latrines/Sanitary Conveniences
Less than 100 people
More than 100 people
Agro-processing/income generation
New
Rehabilitation
None   - No further environmental action necessary
ER     - An Environmental Review required
EA     - An Environmental Assessment required
EIA    - An Environmental Impact Assessment required
Environmental Consideration                         Response
YesNo
Is the location
*     Prone to natural hazards?
*     Close to river/coastal waters?
*     A wetland, forest reserve or National Park?
*     Of Archaeological or historical importance?
An EA is required once there is a YES response to any question above.



Annex II: Environmental Review (ER) Checklist
Type of Expected Impact     Description of Possible      Proposed Mitigation
Impact                     Measure
Would this project directly  Y/N
result in the following?
PHYSICAL
ENVIRONMENT
Increased soil erosion
Increased sediment load into
receiving waters
Likely contamination of
surface or subsurface waters
Excessive dust or noise during
construction
BIOLOGIC4L
ENVIRONMENT
Removal or disturbance of
natural vegetation
Disruption or disturbance of
any animals
SOCAL ENVIRONMENT
Degradation or disturbance
of an historical or cultural
site
OTHER



Annex III: Common Environmental Impacts and their
ADRroRriate Mitigation Measures
IMPACT                                    MITIGATION MEASURES
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
Soils
*     Erosion of soil downslope from road.  Protection of soil surfaces by
*     Landslides, landslips or degradation  *   Revegetation of area
Use of plastic fencing for stabilisation
*     Construction only during the dry season
*     Waterlogging of soil                *     Providing adequate drainage - proper
sized drains/culverts
Water
*     Increased sediment/runoff into      *     Providing adequate drainage away
streams, rivers, ocean                    from major water bodies
*     Proper disposal of hazardous materials
*     Store construction materials away from
water resources
*     Contamination of water resources   *      Apply a minimal distance between water
(faecal contamination)                   source & livestock/human settlements.
*      Ensure appropriate wastewater
treatment
*      Ensure proper maintenance of latrines.
*      Develop and implement monitoring of
sanitary facilities and wastewater treatment
systems.
Construct in area with low water table
*     Clogging of canals by weeds        *      Control of agro-chemical use
*      Proper design of canals
*      Develop water monitoring programme
Air Quality
*     Dust during construction           .      Dust control using wetting of
construction areas with water
*     Acoustic disturbance                .     Restrict construction to certain hours
*     Locate permanent machinery away
from residences and business places
*     Odor problems                      .      Ensure appropriate disposal of waste
products and effluent
ApRendix III (cont'd): Common Environmental ImRacts and their



ADDropriate Mitiaation Measures
IMPACT                                   MITIGATION MEASURES
BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Natural Habitats
*     Disturbance of natural             .     Consideration of alternative sites
habitats/environmentally sensitive areas
Flora & Fauna
*     Loss or degradation of vegetation or  *  Consider alternate site
animal life                             .      Replant trees and appropriate vegetation
*      Mark and protect important trees
OTHER
*     Improper disposal of construction  *     Determine an approved site for
waste - health risk, eyesore             disposal
*     Provide garbage receptacles
*     Sourcing of quarry material for    *     Ensure supplier has mining license
construction
*     Interruption to services e.g       *     Ensure adequate notification to the
electricity/water supply, road access    community of the interruption with indication
on timeline on resumption of service



Annex IV
Environmental Assessment Form
1.0    General Description of Project
1.1    Objective
(What is the project objective?)
1.2    Development description
(Briefly describe development - type, location, construction involved)
2.0    Description of Environment
2.1    Physical Environment
Water
(Describe any nearby water
bodies and sources. Type,
water appearance/quality
etc.)
Air
(Describe the apparent
prevailing winds, condition of
the air - e.g. dusty)
Soil
(Describe the slope, type of
soil, permeability, signs of
erosion etc.)
2.2    Biological Environment
Flora/Fauna
(Describe any apparent
vegetation, look for any
important plant and animal
species)
Habitats & Communities
(Near any protected habitats,
sensitive ecological areas -
wetlands, forests)



2.3    Socio-economic Environment
Historical Aspect
(Describe any impacts on
monuments, archaeological
ruins etc.)
Aesthetic Aspect
(Describe any alteration to
vistas, natural landscape)
Public Health Aspect
(Describe any possible health
risks)
3.0    Building/Construction/Infrastructure Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                     Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourcing of Construction
Material
Construction Works
Disposal of Construction
Waste
Provision of Electricity, Water
& Sanitary Conveniences



4.0    Road Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                    Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourcing of Construction
Material
Machinery Work
Disposal of Construction Waste
Paving
Maintaining Roads
5.0    Sanitation Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                    Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourcing of Construction
Material
Machinery Works
Disposal of Construction Waste
Design & Location of Sewage
System
Discharge of Effluent
Maintenance of Sewage
System
6.0    Water Delivery Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                        Possible Impacts           Mitigation Measure
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourcing of Construction



Materials
Disposal of Construction Waste
Chlorinating/Cleaning of water
Maintaining System/Pipes
7.0    Agro-Processing/Income Generation Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                     Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measure
Site Preparation
Sourcing of Construction
Material
Disposal of Construction
Material
Machinery Works
Use of Chemicals
Discharge of process residue
and liquid waste



Annex V
Activity-Impact-Mitigation Table
Construction/Infrastructure Projects
ACTIVITY              NEGATIVE IMPACT                    MITIGATION
Site                    Loss of trees & habitat      Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Preparation/Vegetation  destruction, soil erosion,   erosion, controlled blasting.
Clearance               siltation, organic waste     Preservation of habitat as far a
disposal, hazards and noise  possible through project design.
due to blasting
Excavation & Filling    Spoil, dust, accidents       Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations. Use of
approved sites for excavation waste
and approved quarries
Sourcing of Earth       Illegal mine &/quarry        Provide evidence of supplier's mining
Materials               operation                    license
Storage & Exposure of   Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials   blockage, dusting            features, cover fines with tarpaulin
(fines)                                              or surround with berms
Site Works              Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting,
erect hoarding around excavated
areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptacles, dispose
Generation              contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      burning, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Solid Waste             Improper disposal, public    Regular collection & disposal at
health risk, eyesore         approved sites. Adequate measures
for storage, transport and disposal
Sewage Disposal         Improper disposal, faecal    Ensure provision, maintenance & use
contamination, water & soil  of sanitary facilities
pollution, health risk, eyesore
Induced Vehicular Traffic  Accidents                 Use traffic signage
Chance finding on site  Destruction of archaeologically  Stop work temporarily and contact
valuable artifacts           the National Heritage Trust for an
evaluation
Other
Annex VI



Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Road Projects
ACTIVITY              NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MITIGATION
Road Surface Preparation  Spoil, washout, dust, soil  Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
erosion, siltation, hazards and  dust by wetting, traffic warning
noise due to blasting       signage, use flagmen, controlled
blasting.
Excavation & Filling    Spoil, dust, accidents      Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourcing of Earth       Illegal mine &/quarry        Provide evidence of supplier's mining
Materials               operation                    license
Storage & Exposure of   Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials   blockage, dusting           features, cover fines with tarpaulin
(fines)                                              or surround with berms
Site Works              Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting,
erect traffic warning signage, use
flag men
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptacles, dispose
Generation              contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      burning, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Road Drainage           Flooding of adjacent land, soil  Consult community about local
erosion                      drainage and flooding patterns,
design drainage so as to dissipate
properly
Blockage of Culverts &  Road flooding and surface    Community awareness programme,
Drains                  erosion                      proper maintenance of drains &
culverts.
Induced Vehicular Traffic  Accidents                 Use traffic signage
Other
N.B. As JSIF only works on existing roads there should be minimum clearing of trees, habitat loss or
damage to cultural property as there would be no clearing of land or excavating for new roads.



Annex VII
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Sanitation Projects
ACTIVITY              NEGATIVE IMPACT                    MITIGATION
Site Preparation/       Loss of trees & habitat, soil  Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Vegetation Clearance    erosion, siltation, organic  erosion
waste disposal
Excavation & Filling    Spoil, dust, accidents       Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourcing of Earth       Illegal mine &/quarry        Provide evidence of supplier's mining
Materials               operation                    license
Storage & Exposure of   Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials   blockage, dusting            features, cover fines with tarpaulin
(fines)                                              or surround with berms
Site Works              Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting,
erect hoarding around excavated
areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptacles, dispose
Generation              contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      burning, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Improperly situated or  Sewage pollution, water      Construct in area with low water
designed sewage system  contamination                table, design appropriate disposal
method
Inappropriate discharge of Faecal contamination, water &  Use septic tanks (where appropriate)
sewage effluents        soil contamination, water
borne diseases, public health
risk
Poorly maintained facilities Mosquito/fly pests      Ensure provision, maintenance & use
of sanitary facilities
Induced Vehicular Traffic  Accidents                 Use traffic signage
Other



Annex VIII
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Water Delivery Projects
ACTIVITY               NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MITIGATION
Site Preparation/        Loss of trees & habitat, soil  Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Vegetation Clearance    erosion, siltation, organic   erosion
waste disposal
Excavation & Filling    Spoil, dust, accidents        Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourcing of Earth       Illegal mine &/quarry         Provide evidence of supplier's mining
Materials               operation                    license
Storage & Exposure of   Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials    blockage, dusting           features, cover fines with tarpaulin
(fines)                                               or surround with berms
Site Works               Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting,
erect hoarding around excavated
areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal     Provide garbage receptacles, dispose
Generation               contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      burning, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Improper Chlorination    Supply of poorly treated water,  Regular dispensing of chlorine
poor public health
Improper disposal of     Water & soil contamination,  Design an adequate wastewater
wastewater               water borne diseases, public  disposal system/plan
health risk
Other



Annex IX
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Agro-Processing Projects
ACTIVITY              NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MITIGATION
Site Preparation/       Loss of trees & habitat, soil  Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Vegetation Clearance    erosion, siltation, organic  erosion
waste disposal
Excavation & Filling    Spoil, dust, accidents      Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourcing of Earth       Illegal mine &/quarry        Provide evidence of supplier's mining
Materials               operation                    license
Storage & Exposure of   Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials   blockage, dusting           features, cover fines with tarpaulin
(fines)                                              or surround with berms
Site Works              Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting,
erect hoarding around excavated
areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptacles, dispose
Generation              contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      burning, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Residue & liquid waste  Soil & water contamination   Design & implement plant waste
discharge                                            management plan, worker training in
use & monitoring of facilities
Conversion of forest for  Deforestation, watershed   Compensatory afforestation
agricultural use        damage
Use of agrochemicals on  Water pollution             Ensure sound use of agrochemicals
crops                                                through consultations with RADA,
farmer training
Other



Annex X
Format for Environmental Impact Assessment Consultant
Terms of Reference
General Introduction
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) was established in December 1996 as a component of the
Government of Jamaica's strategy to reduce and eradicate poverty. Recognizing the limited capacity of
existing government institutions to implement small-scale projects at the community level, Cabinet in
December 1995 approved the establishment of the JSIF as a key component of the Government's
National Poverty Eradication Programme (NPEP). The JSIF is an autonomous government company
designed to provide investments in community based projects island wide. The JSIF operates as a
demand-driven financial intermediary which follows the principles of community participation and
partnership with the private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community based
organizations (CBOs), and donor agencies, in seeking to channel benefits to the poorest communities
across the country.
The JSIF, which is designed as a four-year project initially, will promote, appraise, finance and supervise
sub-projects in the following areas:
Social Infrastructure - includes the rehabilitation, expansion, construction & equipping of
structures such as schools, health centres, homes for the elderly and disabled, infirmaries and
community centers; it also includes the construction and rehabilitation of public sanitary
conveniences, drains, canals and community-based water systems.
Economic Infrastructure - includes the rehabilitation and up grading of parochial, feeder and
urban access roads and the construction and rehabilitation of community-based agro-processing
facilities.
Socia/ Service - includes assistance to programmes offering services in career guidance and job
placement, counselling (including conflict resolution & drug abuse), parenting and family life
education, and skills training to the productive sectors and the disabled.
Organizational Strengthening - includes technical assistance and training to governmental and
non-governmental institutions in participatory project identification, and to sub-project sponsors
and executing agencies to help grass-roots groups to design and formulate, implement and
manage small-scale community-based projects.
The execution of sub-projects approved for JSIF funding are monitored by staff of JSIF's Implementation
Department, and supervised by external on-site Technical Supervisors/Consultants contracted by the
JSIF.
Background
<Insert information pertaining to the history of each particular project - description of project/purpose.
Include a description of the environment and the potential environmental impacts of the project.>
Scope of Work
<Insert a description of the undertaking being considered for the consultant(s).
Include brief descriptions of the range and types of alternatives to be considered for the project.
Include a description of any relevant regulatory statutes/approvals that are applicable.
Include an outline of the work time line expected.>



Outputs
<Insert the particular output requirements of the consultation.
Should include - a work plan/schedule of work; a document containing a detailed description of the
project environment, possible environmental impacts of the project, alternatives to project, mitigation
measures, environmental management plan, estimated costs of mitigation and any other
recommendations>
Payment Schedule
<Insert value of payments and timeline of payments>
Response to Proposal
<Insert date by when Consultant(s) should respond to the TORs above>



Annex XI
Project Environmental Monitoring Form
ACTIVITY      MITIGATION MEASURE         C   NO            COMMENTS
0    N-
M   Co
P   MP
L    U
I   AN
A    CE
N
C
E
-- Sources:
1.    'Jamaica's Commitment To The Conservation And Management Of Natural Resources Ten Years
in Retrospect'; Unpublished Paper, National Environmental and Planning Agency; Kingston, Jamaica
2.    'Jamaica Social Investment Fund Screening Criteria and Preliminary Impact Assessment,
Environmental Consultancy Final Report and Manual', Peter Reeson, September 1998.



