Report No. PID10948
Project Name             Jamaica-Proposed National Community...
Development Project
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Urban Management
Project ID               JMPE76837
Borrower(s)              JAMAICA
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Address: 10-16 Grenada Way
Kingston 5, Jamaica, WI
Contact Person: Leila Palmer, Director
Tel: (876) 906-4463
Jamaica Social Investment Fund
Address: 10-12 Granada Crescent
Kingston 5, Jamaica, WI
Contact Person: Scarlette Gillings,
Managing Director
Tel: (876)929-1620
Fax: (876)929-3784
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        February 5, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     February 11, 2002
Projected Board Date     March 19, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Major Issues: Jamaica's economy has been characterized in recent years by
low growth. After four years of negligible change in GDP, there was a
resumption of GDP growth at around 1 W in 2000/01.    Positive economic
performance occurred mainly in the services sector where tourism is a
leading component. However, the Government continues to be burdened by
high debt and debt service (over 609 of the budget), high interest rates,
capital flight and a large fiscal deficit (7.7w of GDP). These factors
have constrained the Government's efforts to pursue policies aimed at
promoting growth. To complicate the situation, over the last two decades,
Jamaica has had serious underlying political and socio-economic problems
which frequently erupt into open violence during election years or in
times when belt-tightening measures have been proposed. Among the main
sector issues are:Poverty.   From a high of  44.6 W in 1991, the incidence
of poverty steadily declined over the last decade and by 1999, it fell to
15.9 %. However, the 2000 Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions showed that
this figure rose to 18.7 ', primarily because of a recent downturn in
agricultural, bauxite and tourism sectors. Poverty is largely a phenomenon
of the working poor; demand for their labor is not strong enough to raise
real earnings and they lack skills and access to higher-paying jobs. The



majority of the underemployed poor are farmers, agricultural laborers,
domestic servants, street vendors, and craftsmen.     The poorest quintile
claim only 6.67 % of national consumption, while the wealthiest quintile
has a 46 % share.   Some characteristics of the poor stand out prominently:
persons in the rural areas are almost twice as likely as their urban
counterpart to be poor, they and their children have lower levels of
education, they have larger households and are more likely to share basic
housing amenities. Although the problem remains predominantly rural, the
proportion of the poor in Kingston Metropolitan Area has more than doubled
during the 1991-1998 period (from 49 to 10%), indicating the increasing
urbanization of poverty.    A disproportionate share of the political,
economic and social upheavals which Jamaica has suffered over the past
decades has been attributed to inner-city areas where urban poverty is
prevalent.Unemployment.   Unemployment remains high with 20% of Jamaicans
unemployed or underemployed. The profile of the unemployed is also a cause
for concern; about   70% of the unemployed are 35 years old or under and
the unemployment rate among women is about 65%. According to a recent
survey carried out in eleven communities within Kingston for the Kingston
Restoration Company (KRC), unemployment among persons 18-25 years averaged
65%, with over 28% of the male heads of households being unemployed.
Rates for female head of households were estimated at about --%.    Many
residents as well as outsiders have voiced concerns about the trend for
employers to compound the problem by shunning job-seekers from inner-city
areas. At the same time, anecdotal evidence shows that even when
inner-city residents do find employment, they generally have a high
drop-out rate primarily because of difficulty adjusting to the structured
demands and discipline of formal employment. Some NGOs are preparing
special programs to assist such inner-city residents.Lack of Basic
Infrastructure and Services. For years, strategies to mitigate the crisis
in the financial services sector, using mainly domestic resources, have
severely constrained much-needed public sector investment in essential
services, particularly those used by the poor. Even while Jamaica's social
indicators compare favorably with those of other Latin American countries
with similar incomes, public expectations exceed the capacity of the state
to provide social services and supporting infrastructure. In 2000, 33% of
the population lacked access to piped water supply and 38% lacked access
to sanitation facilities.    In terms of access to water and sanitation,
while residents in urban areas enjoy a 2:1 advantage over those in rural
areas, the gap is narrower when service quality and reliability are
considered and the comparison is with inner-city areas. Among urban
areas, almost all of the deficiencies are concentrated within the poor
inner-city settlements; there are an estimated 50,000 residents who have
no direct access to potable water and about 100,000 without direct access
to sanitation facilities in such settlements. In the Kingston
Metropolitan Area, it is estimated that less than 10% of the residents in
the inner-city areas own their units, the rest being squatters or
renters. Access to transport and health, education and social development
facilities are also inadequate for a majority of the population. Crime and
Violence. Jamaica suffers from very high levels of violent crime.
Violence, especially in poor urban neighborhoods, is so extensive that it
is impossible to ignore the issue in the context of increasing levels of
poverty in the country. Exacerbated by inequality in wealth; domestic
violence; rising unemployment, particularly among the youth; political
tribalism and drugs, the murder rate escalated over the last two decades,
reaching over 1,100 reported homicides for 2001, one of the highest per
-2 -



capita murder rates in the hemisphere. While residents in smaller towns
and rural areas have escaped some of the crime and violence of the larger
urban areas, they suffer relatively more from lack of access to many basic
services (e.g., potable water, transport, health and education
facilities), and have fewer secure or high-wage employment options than
those living in larger cities.Government Strategy. The Government's
strategy, as spelt out in its Medium-Term Economic and Social Policy
Framework 1999/2000 to 2002/03, is to protect the poor and vulnerable
while improving the quality of life through increased access to
developmental programs, social and economic opportunities and enhanced
social harmony. Poverty reduction is a major plank of this strategy, to
be achieved through a combination of specially-targeted measures to
improve incomes, self reliance, and the quality of life of the poorest
groups and communities. The underlying poverty reduction strategy has
three elements. The first is a social assistance component with targeted
income transfers under the Government's Unified Benefit Programme as the
major thrust. The second is the development of the income-earning
capacity of the working able-bodied poor by providing training
opportunities, micro-enterprise support, and financial services, using
community-based approaches. The third is provision and upgrading of
social infrastructure in poor areas, through focused investments essential
to sustained growth.Coordinated efforts by the government at pursuing the
above strategy began with the implementation of its National Poverty
Eradication Program (NPEP), elaborated and approved by Cabinet in October
1995 and by Parliament in March 1997. The NPEP has since provided a
framework for action, and has emphasized community-based interventions
undertaken in partnership with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), the
private sector, and the communities themselves. Cognizant of the limited
capacity of existing institutions to initiate small-scale projects at the
community level, the Government established the Jamaica Social Investment
Fund (JSIF) in February 1996. JSIF is designed to assist in responding to
the needs of the most vulnerable groups currently under-served by existing
programs and institutional mechanisms. Several studies show that the JSIF
community development program has had considerable success in reaching a
large number of the poor. It has worked closely with community based
organizations (CBOs) in the delivery of priority subprojects widely
perceived to be beneficial to communities. The projects which it has
financed have, for the most part, coincided with the identified priority
needs of communities. JSIF has also built capacity in participatory
approaches to community development among its implementing partners,
including parishes, ministries, NGOs, CBOs and contractors. While it has
been successful on several fronts, there are also some clear areas of
concern about JSIF's operation. Among these are: (i) less than full
participation in the decision-making stage for project selection where the
relatively wealthier or politically-active groups participate more than
the poorer and more vulnerable groups in communities; (ii) JSIF
supplanting rather than supplementing traditional providers (ministries),
and being a primary source of financing for infrastructure improvement, a
role which explains the large and growing backlog of project applications
JSIF now has; and (iii) the limited interest by beneficiaries, sector
ministries and the parishes to provide adequate follow-up operation and
maintenance attention and resources for such works.
2. Objectives
Jamaicans are today suffering the effects of several adverse external
- 3 -



events (Post September 11 decline in tourism earnings, recent floods, low
demand for Jamaica's exports), and internal ones (high unemployment, poor
access to basic services, crime and violence and social-political
divisiveness). Many of these problems are inter-related.     Based upon past
experience, upcoming national elections in 2002 are expected to exacerbate
an already fragile situation. The primary objectives of the proposed
project are to:   (a)  provide basic services and at the same time, help
generate temporary employment within areas which are most affected by the
above problems and (b) assist the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) in its
current effort to promote greater social and community development,
especially among the poor.The Government has already received Bank
assistance through a US$75 million Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan
(ERL) to help with declining public revenues and increased investments
needed for tourism-related security measures and for financing    of its
pre-September 11 investment program. To achieve the first goal mentioned
above, about half of the funds of the proposed National Community
Development Project will be used to finance a backlog of social
infrastructure works through companies contracted through the Jamaica
Social Investment Fund (JSIF). The other half of the funds will be used
to finance priority community works which are determined through Community
Development Plans (CDPs) and implemented through Community Based Contracts
(CBCs).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has extensive experience in social funds, upgrading works and
emergency assistance. Its comparative strength in these areas can be used
to help Jamaica address several critical issues within a sustainable
framework. The Bank's initial support for the creation of JSIF was an
important step in the GOJ's poverty eradication initiative. It opened the
door for assistance from other donors and lenders to be channeled through
JSIF to target needy beneficiaries. While the first-generation
investments show that social funds and community-development initiatives
can yield significant benefits to the poor, several areas of weaknesses
also surfaced, e.g., gaps in obtaining greater participation from the poor
in the upstream processes; low product quality; weak linkages to line
ministries, parishes and others who need to operate and maintain the works
and to continue to address other sector needs independently of JSIF and in
line with their respective mandates. The results of the September 11
attacks and the rising level of violence in the country provide a unique
opportunity to build upon the strengths of JSIF and to streamline its
operation. Adding Community Based Contracting would help beneficiaries to
achieve greater autonomy in all stages of the process. It also opens up
the door for ensuring that other official sector actors do not shunt their
responsibilities to JSIF and that the communities have a greater voice in
deciding their needs.
4. Description
Basic Infrastructure. The proposed project will finance repairs,
renovation expansion and installation of minor basic infrastructure works
which are needed to improve service quality and access for the target
population. Included in this category are local distribution networks for
water/sanitation storage and distribution systems and connections;
bottleneck sections of streets, roads, paths, walkways, small bridges;
minor drainage systems and similar tasks.Social Superstructure
Facilities. This component includes works to improve facilities which are
- 4 -



used to provide a variety of services which are needed by the target
communities. These include repairs, rehabilitation, renovation, expansion
and construction and equipping of schools; health centers; day-care
centers; community centers; homes for children, the elderly and disabled;
training facilities; parks, sports and recreation areas; public sanitary
facilities (community latrines, showers) and similar amenities.Social
Services and Employment Assistance. Included in this category will be
career guidance and job placement; counseling (including
conflict-resolution and drug abuse programs); parenting and family-life
education; skills training and assistance for both able and disabled
groups.TA and Institutional Strengthening.     This includes financing for
Technical Assistance, training and strengthening programs to the various
entities which would be involved in the proposed project.
Basic Infrastructure
Social Superstructure Facilities
Social Services
TA and Institutional Strengthening
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 10
IBRD                     15
Total Project Cost       25
6. Implementation
The proposed project will utilize most of the existing procedures and
guidelines which were created and used for the previous JSIF Bank loan.
The GOJ will borrow the loan funds which will be passed on to JSIF as a
grant. However, as explained above, there will be refinements in various
stages aimed at addressing the deficiencies and shortcomings noted in the
assessment of the previous project. JSIF's project cycle and its
operational manual are currently being modified to reflect such changes.
They will also include other modifications aimed at having additional
targeting instruments to help those affected by reduced tourism flows.
JSIF will work with SDC, CBOs, NGOs and others to promote active community
participation in project origination, implementation, monitoring and
operation and maintenance (directly or indirectly via the appropriate
sector entity). Utilization of fifty percent of the proposed loan for
Community Based Contracting will enhance the power of such communities
insofar as they will be able to control the entire process of organizing
themselves, articulating their needs and have responsibility for
contracting the works and being accountable for the results. Approval of
the new project-cycle procedures by JSIF's Board and its utilization will
be a condition for appraising the project.
7. Sustainability
JSIF's charter stipulates that it is a temporary entity whose task is to
help address critical needs which, for various reasons, cannot be
currently addressed by the traditional sector entities for such tasks.
Given the great need which exists in Jamaica today for assistance from
JSIF, it is expected to continue into the forseeable future. Also, with a
revised project cycle in place, most of the weaknesses identified during
implementation of the previous project are not expected to reappear,
primarily because of project cycle provisions for greater accountability
from contractors, clearer definition of lines of operation and maintenance
- 5 -



responsibilities among the primary actors, and greater follow-up actions
by JSIF. The creation of CDCs and CDPs is also expected to promote
project sustainability to the degree that the new CDCs will develop into
strong lobbying entities and take greater responsibilities for their own
social and economic development and appropriately operate and maintain the
works which they planned and contracted.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Even though there were the difficulties noted earlier, the
recently-concluded Bank loan to JSIF was successful in reaching the target
population and in assisting communities to better articulate their needs.
Lessons from this and similar operations show that for community
development subprojects to be successfully implemented, a number of
factors needs to be present. These include: (i) a determined leadership
with operational autonomy and with a strong sense of commitment; (ii) a
demand-driven participatory approach that gives voice to the poor and
serves as a mechanism to ensure impartiality of benefits; (iii) a simple
community-based subproject design that ensures local participation,
empowerment and ownership; and (iv) a transparent and detailed
decision-making procedures with regular financial and operational audits
to ensure accountability at all levels. JSIF's operations also have
important ancillary benefits. They contribute to decentralization of
service delivery, and bring CBOs and NGOs into a more collaborative and
coordinated relationship with the Government. They also provide models of
efficiency and effectiveness, which may be used by other public sector
agencies. The design of the proposed project, which draws heavily on
JSIF's experience, incorporates these factors.In a similar vein, the
concept of the proposed project is guided by weaknesses identified in
JSIF's operation, as follows:(i) Sustainability is a key element in
subproject lending, whether for physical works or community development
activities. Based on the evaluation of completed projects under JSIF,
maintenance was rated as poor. The proposed project will pay greater
attention to institutional and financial sustainability aspects through
promotion of:- greater community involvement in all stages of the project
cycle, including community contracting;- active linkage by beneficiary
communities with line ministries (health, education, transport, water) and
parish councils with O&M responsibilities to ensure subproject
sustainability (e.g., a school-building project would have to be
implemented with clearer commitment from the Ministry of Education) along
with a clearer division of responsibilities between communities and the
appropriate sector entity.- introduction of performance-based agreements
linking financing to own-contribution from beneficiaries and community
commitment efforts in subproject implementation and O&M.(ii) Reform in the
identification and selection processes of investments at the community
level, making sure that adequate time is given for mobilizing increased
participation of the poorest in decision-making and in the project cycle
without long delays. This will contribute to greater responsiveness to
their demand, greater representation and ownership, and greater
transparency and accountability.(iii) Subproject preparation in future
project design should be accorded greater attention and contractors and
consultants should have clear responsibilities and greater accountability
in order to avoid implementation delays, poor work quality and cost
overruns.(iv) There should be greater attention paid to monitoring and
evaluating the impact of investments. This calls for improvement in the
Management Information System (MIS) currently in place. In line with the
- 6 -



recommendations from the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of JSIF,
other operational lessons incorporated in the design of the proposed
project are:(i) Streamlined procurement and disbursement rules and
regulations to ensure speedy implementation;(ii) Detailed operational
manual, standardized accounting procedures, regular and rigorous auditing,
and quantitative and qualitative evaluations of outcomes, all aimed at
ensuring transparency, accountability and effectiveness;Mechanisms for
sector coordination with line ministries and parish councils that are
flexible enough not to compromise the independence and efficiency of JSIF;
and, incorporation of sustainability conditions in the design of the
proposed project to ensure continued flow of subproject benefits.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  All of the works under the proposed project are
aimed at improving living conditions in very poor areas. The impacts are
generally positive insofar as they result in improved access to potable
water and other sanitary facilities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Thakoor Persaud
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-39223
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 15, 2001.
-7-



