Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23690 JM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR THE
NATIONAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 11, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure, Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 6, 2002)
Currency Unit = Dollar (J$)
J$1.00= US$0.02
US$1.00 = J$48.70
FISCAL YEAR
April I -- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CBC              Community Based Contracting
CBO              Community Based Organization
CDC              Community Development Commitee
CDD              Community Driven Development
CDP              Community Development Plan
DFID             British Department of International Development
ERL              Emergency Recovery Loan
EU               European Union
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GOJ              Govemment of Jamaica
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IERR             Internal Economic Rate of Return
JS1F             Jamaica Social Investment Fund
KRC              Kingston Restoration Company
NCDP             National Community Development Plan
NGO              Non Governmental Organization
NPEP             National Poverty Eradication Program
OPCPR            Procurement Policy and Services Group
PIOJ             Planning Institute of Jamaica
SDC              Social Development Commission
TA               Technical assistance
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Thakoor Persaud



JAMAICA
NATIONAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    3
2. Key performance indicators                                                       3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    8
3. Benefits and target population                                                   9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        14
2. Financial                                                                       14
3. Technical                                                                       15
4. Institutional                                                                   15
5. Environmental                                                                   16
6. Social                                                                          18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              20



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  21
2. Critical risks                                                                  21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  22
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         22
2. Other                                                                           22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      30
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                          31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            33
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 34
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  47
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                48
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               49
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         50
Annex 11: JSIF Organization and Project Cycle                                         52
Annex 12: JSIF Environmental Guidelines                                               57
Annex 13: Social Analysis - Jamaican Maroons                                          90
MAP(S)
IBRD 20846



JAMAICA
National Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFU
Date: September 11, 2002                         Team Leader: Thakoor Persaud
Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger      Sector(s): General water/sanitation/flood protection sector
Country ManagerlDirector: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  (24%), General education sector (23%), Health (23%),
Project ID: P076837                              Housing construction (23%), Central government
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  administration (7%)
Theme(s): Civic engagement, participation and
community driv (P), Access to urban services for the poor
(P), Rural non-farm income generation (P), Other
financial and private sector development (P)
1.Project Finaiicing Ddt,- -- - * R           er.              C   *V.
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $15.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 0 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 17
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ ] Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [X]Interest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:
Financing Plan (US$r):r  '                                  Loca,l' ce-'  "Foreign '     Total
BORROWER                                                      10.90           0.25         11.15
EBRD                                                          12.00           3.00         15.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              0.91           0.00          0.91
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS                              1.34           1.25          2.59
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                        25.15           4.50         29.65
Borrower: JAMAICA
Responsible agency:
Jamaica Social Investment Fund
Address: 10-12 Grenada Crescent
Kingston 5, Jamaica, WI
Contact Person: Scarlette Gillings, Managing Director
Tel: (876) 929-1620          Fax: (876) 929-3784          Email: sgillings@jsif.org



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
- -; F' - e t20032004 ~2005                  : 06Z 207. J ri20
Annual     2.00      3.00      3.00     3.00       3.00      1.00
Cumulative    2.00      5.00      8.00     11.00     14.00     15.00
Project implementation period: 2003-2008
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/2003 Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS PAD F. RP _d0 2m
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Jamaicans are today suffering the effects of several adverse external events (lingering impact of
post-September 11 decline in tourism earnings, low demand for Jamaica's exports), and internal ones
(recent floods, high unemployment, poor access to basic services, crime and violence). Many of these
problems are inter-related. The primary objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) help communities
in the most affected areas by providing basic services and temporary employment opportunities, and (b)
assist the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) in its current effort to promote greater social and community
development, especially among the poor.
The Government has already received Bank assistance through a US$75 million Emergency Economic
Rehabilitation Loan (ERL) to help compensate for declining public revenues needed to finance its
pre-September 11 investment program and to finance investments needed for tourism-related security
measures after the September 11 attacks. To achieve the first project goal mentioned above, funds of the
proposed National Community Development Project will be used to finance a backlog of social
infrastructure works in the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSEF) which have been identified as priority
needs by poor communities. These works will be done through contractors hired through JSIF. Some of
these funds will also be used to finance priority community works which are determined through
Community Development Plans (CDPs) and implemented through Community Based Contract (CBC)
procedures.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
For Basic Service / Emplovment-generation Objective:
1. Increase in access to and quality of basic services.
2. Number of incremental temporary jobs created (gender, number, skilled, and unskilled).
3. Improved operation and maintenance of project facilities.
For Social Development Obiective:
1. Increase in the number of projects financed by JSIF after being identified in Community Development
Plans (CDPs)
2. Increase in the number of communities which develop the capacity to select their own priority projects
and to manage project contracting and project implementation effectively to ensure work quality,
reasonable costs, and timeliness.
3. Evidence of increased complementary investment generated (from residents, other public sector
entities and the private sector) through JSIF and Social Development Commission (SDC) assistance
to community groups.
4. Number of subprojects with active community maintenance plans and clear indication of agreed
support from line ministries and/or local authorities.
5. Level of community satisfaction with subproject and performance of sponsoring entities, JSIF, SDC,
and Community Development Committees (CDCs).
Performance will be measured against the above-mentioned indicators through periodic reviews, audits
and reporting arrangements, some incorporating sample surveys and other measurements of beneficiary
satisfaction, as well as from Bank supervision missions.
- 3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: SecM2000-680    Date of latest CAS discussion: November 30, 2000
In keeping with the CAS objectives of restoring economic growth, promoting inclusion and protection of
the poor, and supporting sustainable development, the project seeks to enhance sustainable development
of communities of low-income communities by promoting greater community selection of labor-intensive
infrastructure-development projects and strengthening the local capacity to implement such projects, with
the active participation of the target beneficiaries.
To ensure that investments in community infrastructure are priority ones and that they are sustainable,
the subprojects will be demand-driven in line with the needs of the communities. It will also empower
communities both in subproject selection as well as in the planning and design, contracting and
management of the infrastructure investments. With assistance from the European Union (EU) and the
British Department for International Development (DFID) to the SDC and JSIF, the Government has
recently initiated a program which promotes Community Driven Development initiatives through
Community Development Committees which formulate Community Development Plans through
community consensus. These initiatives will be supported through the proposed project inasmuch as
community development plans will be an important tool which JSIF will use to decide its assistance
program. These community plans will also be used to promote greater accountability from parishes and
sector entities which are responsible for providing basic services in the selected communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Major Issues:
Jamaica's economy has been characterized in recent years by low or negative growth. After four years of
negligible change in GDP, there was a resumption of real GDP growth at around 1% in 2000/01.
Positive economic performance occurred mainly in the services sector where tourism is a leading
component. However, the Government continues to be burdened by high debt levels and debt service
(interest payments were about 14% of GDP in 2001/02 and 62% of the budget), high interest rates, and a
large central government deficit (5.7% of GDP in 2001/02). These factors have constrained the
Government's growth efforts. To complicate the situation, over the last two decades, Jamaica has faced
political and socio-economic challenges which, have, at times, been manifested in social unrest. Among
the main sector issues are:
Poverty. From a high poverty rate of 44.6% in 1991, the incidence of poverty rapidly declined over the
last decade and by 1999, it fell to 16.9%. In 2000, ihe Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions showed that
this figure rose to 18.7% (primarily because of a downturn in agricultural, bauxite and tourism sectors),
before declining to its 1999 level in 2001. Poverty is largely a phenomenon of the working poor; demand
for labor is not strong enough to raise real earnings and their lack of skills limit access to higher-paying
jobs. The majority of the underemployed poor are farmers, agricultural laborers, domestic servants,
street vendors, and craftsmen. The poorest quintile claim only about 6.24% of national consumption,
while the wealthiest quintile had a 46% share in 2001. Some characteristics of the poor stand out
prominently: they and their children have lower levels of education, they have larger households and are
more likely to share basic housing amenities. Although poverty is higher in the rural areas (24%) partly
due to poor infrastructure, the proportion of the poor in Kingston Metropolitan Area has more than
doubled during the 1991-1998 period (from 4% to 10%), indicating the increasing urbanization of
poverty. A large share of the recent political and social upheavals which Jamaica has suffered over the
past decades has been attributed to unacceptable conditions in the inner-city areas where urban poverty is
prevalent.
-4 -



Unemployment. Unemployment remains high with 15% of labor-force age Jamaicans unemployed.
There is also relatively high levels of underemployment and it is estimated that just over 12% of
employed Jamaicans also live below the poverty line. The profile of the unemployed is a cause for
concern; about 70% of the unemployed are young, 35 years old or under, and the unemployment rate
among women is about 21%. According to a recent survey carried out in eleven communities within
Kingston for the Kingston Restoration Company (KRC), unemployment among persons 18-25 years
averaged 65%, with over 28% of the male heads of households being unemployed. Many residents as
well as outsiders have voiced concerns about the practice for employers to compound the problem by
shunning job-seekers from inner-city areas. At the same time, anecdotal evidence shows that even when
inner-city residents do find employment, they generally have a high drop-out rate, primarily because of
difficulty adjusting to the structured demands and discipline of formal employment, including finding
affordable care for dependents and convenient transport. Some NGOs are preparing special programs to
assist such inner-city residents.
Lack of Basic Infrastructure and Services. For years, the need to attend to the crisis in the financial
sector and to contain public spending, have severely constrained much-needed public sector investment
in essential services, particularly those used by the poor. Even while Jamaica's social indicators compare
favorably with those of other Latin American countries with similar income profile, public expectations
exceed the capacity of the state to provide social services and supporting infrastructure.
In 2000, 33% of the population lacked access to piped water supply and 38% lacked access to sanitation
facilities. In terms of access to water and sanitation, while residents in urban areas enjoy a 2:1
advantage over those in rural areas, the gap is narrower when service quality and reliability are
considered and the comparison is with inner-city areas. Among urban areas, almost all of the
deficiencies are concentrated within the poor inner-city settlements; there are an estimated 50,000
residents who have no direct access to potable water and about 100,000 without,direct access to
sanitation facilities in such settlements. In the Kingston Metropolitan Area, it is estimated that less than
10% of the residents in the inner-city areas own their units, the rest being squatters or renters. Access to
transport and health, education and social development facilities is also inadequate for a majority of the
population.
Crime and Violence. Jamaica suffers from very high levels of violent crime. In 2001, over 1,100
homicides were reported, resulting in one of the highest per capita murder rates in the hemisphere.
Violence, especially in poor urban neighborhoods, is so extensive that it is impossible to ignore the issue
in the context of increasing levels of poverty in the country. Exacerbated by inequality in wealth;
domestic violence; rising unemployment, particularly among the youth; political tribalism and drugs, the
murder rate has escalated over the last two decades.
Government Strategy. The Government's strategy, as spelt out in its Medium-Term Economic and
Social Policy Framework 1999/2000 to 2002/03, is to protect the poor and vulnerable while improving
the quality of life through increased access to developmental programs, social and economic
opportunities and enhanced social harmony. Poverty reduction is a major plank of this strategy, to be
achieved through a combination of measures to improve incomes, self reliance, and the quality of life of
the poorest groups and communities. The poverty reduction strategy has three elements. The first is a
social assistance component with targeted income transfers under the Government's Unified Benefit
Programme as the major thrust. The second is the development of the income-earning capacity of the
working poor by providing training opportunities, micro-enterprise support, and financial services, using
community-based approaches. The third is provision and upgrading of social infrastructure in poor areas,
-5 -



through focused investments essential to sustained growth.
Coordinated efforts by the Government at pursuing the above strategy began with the implementation of
its National Poverty Eradication Program (NPEP), elaborated and approved by Cabinet in October 1995
and by Parliament in March 1997. The NPEP has since provided a framework for action, and has
emphasized community-based interventions undertaken in partnership with nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs), the private sector, and the communities themselves. Cognizant of the limited
capacity of existing institutions to initiate small-scale projects at the community level, the Government
established the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) in February 1996. JSEF is designed to assist in
responding to the needs of the most vulnerable groups currently under-served by existing programs and
institutional mechanisms.
Several studies show that the JSIF community development program has had considerable success in
reaching a large number of the poor. It has worked closely with community based organizations (CBOs)
in the delivery of priority subprojects widely perceived to reflect Community Driven Development
(CDD) principles and providing wide benefits to the communities. JSIF has also built strong capacity in
participatory approaches to community development among its implementing partners, including
parishes, ministries, NGOs, CBOs and contractors.
While it has been successful on several fronts, there are also some clear areas of concern about JSIF's
operation. Among these are: (i) less than full participation in some cases in the decision-making stage for
project selection, where the relatively wealthier or politically-active groups tend to participate more than
the poorer and more vulnerable groups in communities; (ii) JSIF supplanting rather than supplementing
traditional providers (ministries and parishes), and being a primary source of financing for infrastructure
improvement, a role which explains the large and growing backlog of project applications JSIF now has;
and (iii) the limited capacities by beneficiaries, sector ministries and the parishes to provide adequate
follow-up operation and maintenance attention and resources for such works.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The National Community Development Project is aimed at improving living conditions by: (i) providing
basic infrastructure and generating temporary employment opportunities, primarily within poor
communities which have been affected by declining tourism flows; (ii) rehabilitating, upgrading, and/or
constructing essential economic and social infrastructure (e.g. schools, community centers, water
connections, rural roads) identified through CDD initiatives and implemented through both JSIF and
community-based contracting; and (iii) promoting and facilitating stronger community-based
development initiatives.
The key sector issue which will be directly addressed by the project is the delivery of sustainable basic
infrastructure and complementary services in poor communities while providing temporary employment
opportunities for mostly unskilled workers in these neighborhoods. Community Based Contracting of
priority works which are decided upon through CDD initiatives and articulated through Community
Development Plans will assist in empowering, integrating and strengthening communities while they
improve access to basic services. In the process of assessing their priority needs, the target communities
will receive assistance to evaluate such priorities according to a range of technical, financial, social, and
institutional criteria to ensure that funds are soundly and strategically channeled.
Since JSIF has already demonstrated its success in implementing CDD-based projects which reach the
poor, a strategic choice has been made to retain it as the primary implementing entity for the project.
This will allow lessons learned from its experiences with community-based subprojects to be
- 6 -



incorporated in subsequent operations throughout both urban and rural areas. JSIF's demonstrated ability
to mobilize and channel required funds for social sector investments also enhances this decision.
However, to address JSIF's already-identified weaknesses, the following areas have been strengthened in
the design of the project:
JSIF's role vis-a-vis other sector entities. To prevent the build-up of long-term dependence on JSEF,
efforts are being made to get the GOJ to streamline the roles, functions and responsibilities among
JSIF and other actors in the sector, including the parishes and ministries. Greater emphasis will be
placed upon JSIF's role as a temporary entity which is set up to complement, and not to substitute for
sectoral investment and operation and maintenance programs implemented by line ministries,
parishes and other local authorities. To reinforce recent decentralization initiatives, the proposed
project will emphasize the role of the parish authorities and their recent efforts to promote
Community Development Committees (CDCs) and larger functional economic areas.
Although most beneficiary communities are capable of carrying out minor maintenance activities,
they often lack financial resources and/or technical expertise for larger tasks. The proposed project
will help such communities to improve their own maintenance efforts as well as the way they seek
assistance from the line ministries and parishes for other operation and maintenance activities.
Enhanced role for Social Development Commission (SDC). The SDC is a public entity which has
responsibility for, among other things, empowering all Jamaicans, enabling them to participate in an
integrated, equitable and sustainable national development process. Under the project, SDC, in
partnership with JSIF, will have an important role in (i) enhancing community participation; (ii)
encouraging communities to design and utilize Community Development Plans; (iii) helping
communities to identify local financial and non-financial resources for the implementation of their
plans and (iv) for maintenance of community facilities.
Targeting. JSIF will improve its targeting mechanism and will modify its project-cycle process and
beneficiary-selection criteria, using such devices as weights and ranking, which among other things,
will allow equally-poor communities to compete among themselves for access to project assistance.
JSIF will also use the PIOJ geographic targeting criteria aimed at identifying needy residents in poor
urban and rural areas, especially those around tourist destinations. It has simplified project
preparation requirements for the poorest communities and along with other partners, it will provide
intensive support to these communities throughout the project cycle.
Proiect Supervision and Monitoring. Revised supervision and monitoring arrangements have been built
in with new operational procedures which were developed under the project. These are expected to
create incentives for all participating project-implementing entities to maintain quality, efficiency and
related standards.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. a. JSIF Subproiects. This component is aimed at providing basic services while helping to create
temporary employment opportunities for residents who are among the poorest income strate in Jamaica.
There are several subprojects which have been already identified as priority by these communities and
submitted to JSIF for funding. JSIF will contract the works for selected subprojects in its pipeline as
- 7-



well as other new works which are generally large and/or complex and for which direct community
contracting will not be feasible.
b. Community Subprojects. This component will finance demand-driven and commnunity-implemented
socio-economic infrastructure works and activities. Sub-project identification will be in line with JSIF's
sub-project menu which includes construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and social
superstructure facilities. Community assessment will be carried out to make sure that the selected
communities have, or will be able to acquire the skills and resources needed to efficiently manage their
proposed community-contracted works. Because this is a new approach for JSIF, special implementation
arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, will have to be in place during the first year of project
implementation before activities in this component will commence. Based upon discussions with
ongoing task teams and reviews of similar operations underway in LAC and other regions, it is expected
that this component will be at least 20% of the total value of sub-projects financed under this loan.
2. TA and Institutional Strengthening. This includes financing for Technical Assistance, training and
strengthening programs to JSIF and the various entities which would be involved in the proposed project,
particularly to support the CBC system. Financing will also be provided for additional consultants to
support the implementation of community contracting.
3. Administration. This component includes funding for goods needed to facilitate sub-project
supervision, monitoring and community training.
;-          '. -                     - .    Indlcative            Bank--     % of
p-; -g-  .-  -     Component    -- . .v-                               n a*ng
-. - ~~.  7.>  7'.   .   .,  .      (US$M)   ~~Total..7  *'(U4$M) - financing
Subprojects                                          18.30      60.8     12.38      82.5
TA and Institutional Strengthening                    3.04      10.1      2.17      14.5
Administration                                        8.61      28.6      0.30       2.0
Total Project Costs  29.95     99.5     14.85      99.0
Front-end fee   0.15       0.5       0.15       1.0
Total Financing Required   30.10     100.0     15.00     100.0
Bank financing will be 55% of the total project costs net of taxes, this falls within the 3-year local cost
financing limits of 60% for the Bank's Jamaican operations.
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project:
In the GOJ's National Poverty Eradication Program, JSIF was created to finance a wide variety of
sustainable small-scale projects meeting the needs of the poorest strata who are overlooked by the
investment programs of traditional sector entities and parishes. However, during the implementation of
the just-completed Social Investment Fund project, JSIF, by default, appears to have become the primary
financing source for many new and renovated works and has even started to focus on operation and
maintenance functions as several of these sector entities were unable to assume their responsibilities for
various reasons. The proposed project will help to refocus JSIF's operation upon its originally-envisaged
role and ensure that the parishes and other sector entities assume their respective roles so that JSIF is not
overburdened.
Another policy modification of the proposed project is to reach consensus among a wider group of poor
beneficiaries for project identification, selection and preparation so that more beneficiaries identify with
the project output at an earlier stage and make special efforts to maintain them appropriately, either with
their own resources or through the appropriate sector entity or parish. While Community Based
-8 -



Contracting (CBC) has been tried on an experimental basis in previous JSIF works, in the proposed
project, a significant share of project funds (20%) is expected to be for works contracted through CBC
which is being developed to become a prominent feature in this project as well as in future JSEF lending.
This new focus requires several modifications to JSIF's already-revised project cycle and operational
manual and these will be finalized during the first year of project implementation. The Bank (OPCPR) is
currently conducting a field test in Jamaica of a reference guide for fiduciary management of CDD
operations. This exercise is expected to assist JSIF in the preparation of its community-based contracting
component. In order to ensure that CBC is operational, a loan condition of disbursement is that JSIF
cannot contract more than 30 percent of the loan funds unless it has an established CBC system approved
by its Board and the CBC system is fully operational (i.e. the first group of eligible communities
participating in the Community Sub-projects have been legally registered and trained in community
contracting).
However, it is expected that a four month startup period will be needed before the communities should
attempt CBC, since they will need technical assistance, guidance, and preparation before CBC can
commence.
The operating guidelines have been revised to include: relatively greater weights for smaller subprojects;
works with relatively more unskilled labor needs; works in areas or among groups affected by the recent
floods or the lingering impact of the September 11 events; weights in favor of greater community and
private sector contribution; procedures for elimination of backlog applications through division of
priority requests among sector entities and renewal of the cycle each year; and improved accountability
of JSIEF and all of its principal partners (contractors, consultants, NGOs, CBOs, parishes).
The modifications of JSIF role, the adjustments introduced to the project cycle and the operational
manual, together with a more community-development oriented model which includes CBC, imply
significant institutional changes for JSIF. The success of this new project relies on the incorporation of
new ways of operation in JSIFs working culture. To move in this direction, the endorsement and
commitment on the part of JSIF's Board and management will be key. Collaboration from middle
management and technical staff in the preparation of the project package has been substantial, reflecting
the commitment of higher-level officials. Monitoring the pace of consolidation of the changes proposed
in JSIFs way of working will be incorporated as an important variable for Project Monitoring and
Evaluation.
3. Benefits and target population:
As with the first JSIF project, JSIF will continue to identify (via poverty map, PIOJ methodology and
data on areas inhabited by residents affected by tourism decline), the targeted households for
beneficiaries of the proposed project. Details on the methodology used to define and select poor
communities are elaborated in the Operations Manual. In sum, applications from those communities in
Quartile 4 (poorest) in the poverty map will be accepted, as will those in other quartiles with a low SDC
Poverty Index score. This selection criteria will apply to both subprojects contracted by JSIF and those
contracted by the communities.
Along with temporary job creation, the project will help to finance much-needed infrastructure, social
amenities and economic facilities which will provide both short- and long-term assistance to targeted
families. As more of the communities organize themselves and prepare their Community Development
Plans, they would be better able to identify their priority needs and seek assistance from the relevant
ministries and parishes. Having a substantial share of the project funds allocated for Community Based
Contracts will empower these communities and provide greater incentives for them to work together to



build, maintain and better utilize the facilities they receive. The proposed project will also assist the GOJ
and other donors and lenders in their ongoing efforts to work with communities to create Community
Development Committees and Community Development Plans within which the respective role of all of
the actors will be much more clearly defined.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed project will utilize most of the existing procedures and guidelines which were created and
used for the previous JSEF Bank loan (Loan 4088-JM). The GOJ will borrow the loan funds which will
be passed on to JSIF as a grant, under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the GOJ,
through the Ministry of Finance, and JSIF, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
However, as explained above, there will be refinements in various stages aimed at addressing the
deficiencies and shortcomings noted in the assessment of the previous project. JSIF's project cycle and
its operational manual have been revised to reflect such changes. They also include other modifications
aimed at having additional targeting instruments to help those affected by reduced tourism flows. JSIF
will work with the SDC, CBOs, NGOs and others to promote active community participation in project
origination, implementation, monitoring and operation and maintenance (directly or indirectly via the
appropriate sector entity). Utilization of the proposed loan for Community Based Contracting will
enhance the power of such communities insofar as they will be able to control the entire process of
organizing themselves, articulating their needs and have responsibility for contracting the works and
being accountable for the results. In order to assure accountability under the community based
contracting system, the communities will have legal personality. JSIF's Board has recently reviewed and
approved the new project-cycle procedures, including the concept of community based contracting.
JSIFs Operational Manual contains details on the various eligibility criteria which will be used in order
to review and select subprojects which will be funded under the loan. For a project to be eligible for
JSIF funding it must be within the Government's poverty-mapped area; be in JSIF's priority project.
menu; have no resettlement requirements; include some form of beneficiary contribution; and for
Community Based Contracting, demonstrate the capacity of the community to undertake the works. In
the project analysis and selection process, priority will be given to subprojects which have simple design;
involve small works; have a relatively high ratio of unskilled labor needs; have short implementation
period; benefit a relatively large pool of residents; have a relatively large share of community
contribution; are in an advanced stage of preparation and include sustainable operation and maintenance
provisions.
JSLF currently requires the relevant sector ministry or parish to agree that the new or renovated works
which JSIF finances are appropriately maintained. This practice will continue under both JSIF and
community contracted works. Greater details on the topics addressed here are found in Annex 2.
Funds would be managed similar to the JSIF project, in which a Special Account was maintained in US
dollars, and payments were made to local contractors. Since JSIF's operations primarily involve
relatively small community-oriented projects, most payments are to local contractors via a local currency
account. All funds would be first budgeted via the government's normal budget processes, with
counterpart funds made available on a monthly basis via the government's warrant system.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Creation of a special Project Unit to implement the proposed project was among the alternatives
considered. However, in discussions with the Finance Minister and his staff, this option was not
- 10-



considered further because of the additional bureaucracy it would create and because it was felt that it
would take time to organize and it would also duplicate many of the functions of the JSIF.
A second option considered was to set aside a special funding window in JSIF to manage the proposed
project. This was also not pursued further because it was felt that this could add administrative
complexity and confuse beneficiaries, especially since the areas of focus do not differ much from JSlF's
normal operation.
Dividing the funds into two pools, one for JSIF to manage in rural areas and the other for some similar
entity to use in urban areas was another alternative considered. This was because it was felt that JSIF has
had relatively better success in rural areas and there was need for an experienced entity to work quickly
in the urban areas. The absence of any strong entity with wide experience in urban areas and ongoing
efforts of JSEF to work with various urban entities to complement its initiatives, led to this option not
being considered further.
The option accepted by both the GOJ and the Bank for the proposed project was that of continuing with
JSIF as was done in the previous Bank project but making various adjustments and TA provisions,
including explicit provisions for community based contracting, in response to studies and
recommendations on JSIF's performance in previous projects.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.   .  .; .  .   . ---;         .      Latest*Supervisionf- -
Secto'r Issue .              - -Project                 (PSR) Ratings-,.
.  .    .       _________________;____  (Bank-financed  proJectsoniy)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Post 9-11 impact amelioration    Emergency Recovery Loan -        S            S
closed
Social Protection                Social Safety Net Project
Social Protection                Social Investment Fund -closed   S            S
Other development agencies
IADB                             Kingston Urban
Renewal-ongoing
IADB                             Rural Water Program-new
IADB                             National Road Services
Improvement Program -new
LADB                             Parish Infrastructure
Development Program-
ongoing
LADB                             Emergency Flood
Recovery-new
IADB                             Solid Waste Management                    ......
CARE Canada                      Tools for Development
DFID                             Urban Poverty
DFI                             Performance Improvement
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-11 - .



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Even though JSIF experienced some of the difficulties noted earlier, the recently-concluded Bank loan to
*JSIF was successful in reaching the target population and in assisting communities to better articulate
their needs. Lessons from this and similar operations show that for community development subprojects
to be successfully implemented, a number of factors needs to be present. These include: (i) a determined
leadership with operational autonomy and with a strong sense of commitment; (ii) a demand-driven
participatory approach that gives voice to the poor and serves as a mechanism to ensure impartiality of
benefits; (iii) a simple community-based subproject design that ensures local participation, empowerment
and ownership; and (iv) transparent and detailed decision-making procedures with regular financial and
operational audits to ensure accountability at all levels. JSIF's operations also have important ancillary
benefits. They contribute to decentralization of service delivery and bring CBOs and NGOs into a more
collaborative and coordinated relationship with the Government. They also provide models of efficiency
and effectiveness, which may be used by other public sector agencies. The design of the proposed
project, which draws heavily on JSIF's experience, incorporates these factors.
In a similar vein, the concept of the proposed project is guided by weaknesses identified in JSIF's
operation, as follows:
(i) Sustainability is a key element in subproject investment, whether for physical works or community
development activities. Based on the evaluation of completed projects under JSIF, maintenance for
several completed works was rated as poor. The proposed project will pay greater attention to
institutional and financial sustainability aspects through promotion of:
* greater community involvement in all stages of the project cycle, including community
contracting;
* active linkage by beneficiary communities with line ministries (health, education, transport,
water) and parish councils with O&M responsibilities to ensure subproject sustainability (e.g., a
school-building project would have to be implemented with clearer commitment from the
Ministry of Education) along with a clearer division of preventative and periodic maintenance
responsibilities between communities and the appropriate sector entities.
*   introduction of performance-based agreements linking financing to own-contribution from
beneficiaries and community commitment efforts in subproject implementation and O&M.
(ii) Reform in the identification and selection processes of investments at the community level, making
sure that adequate time is given for mobilizing increased participation of the poorest in
decision-making and in the project cycle without long delays. This will contribute to greater
responsiveness to their demand, greater representation and ownership, and greater transparency and
accountability.
(iii) Subproject preparation in future project design should be accorded greater attention and contractors
and consultants should have clear responsibilities and greater accountability in order to avoid
implementation delays, poor work quality and cost overruns.
(iv) There should be greater attention paid to monitoring and evaluating the impact of investments. This
calls for improvement in the Management Information System (which has recently been done).
In line with the recommendations from the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of JSIF, other
operational lessons incorporated in the design of the proposed project are:
(i) Streamlined procurement and disbursement rules and regulations to ensure speedy implementation;
- 12 -



(ii) Detailed operational manual, standardized accounting procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and
quantitative and qualitative evaluations of outcomes, all aimed at ensuring transparency,
accountability and effectiveness;
(iii) Mechanisms for sector coordination with line ministries and parish councils that are flexible enough
not to compromise the independence and efficiency of JSIF, and incorporation of sustainability
conditions in the design of the proposed project to ensure continued flow of suboroject benefits.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In initiating its request for Bank assistance, the GOJ prepared a background paper in which, among other
things, it presented details of the problem and the assistance which it was seeking from the Bank. The
JSIF staff collaborated with Bank staff and consultants to review several aspects of JSIF's operation
where changes were required to address problems noted in implementation of the previous Bank loan as
well as to incorporate the additional needs arising from the September 11 event. JSIF has already revised
its project-cycle procedures in light of Bank-JSIF discussions. The Government has also received TA
from DFID and the EU for improving JSIFs operation and the Social Development Commission is
working to create Community Development Committees and Community Development Plans. JSIF had
initially approached the bank about mechanisms for implementing community-based contracting. They
followed-up on this by participating in a CBC workshop held at the Bank and are working with
consultants from other countries which have implemented CBC. Additionally, in June 2002, the Bank
(OPCPR) conducted a roll-out of its CDD Fiduciary Management Training Package in Jamaica with JSIF
and other interested bilateral, multilateral and NGO staff in attendance.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has extensive experience in social funds, community-based contracting, upgrading works and
emergency assistance. Its comparative strength in these areas can be used to help Jamaica address
several critical issues within a sustainable framework. The Bank's initial support for the creation of JSIF
was an important step in the GOJ's poverty eradication initiative. It opened the door for assistance from
other donors and lenders to be channeled through JSIF to target needy beneficiaries. While the
first-generation investments show that social funds and community-development initiatives can yield
significant benefits to the poor, several areas of weaknesses also surfaced, e.g., gaps in obtaining greater
participation from the poor in the upstream processes; low product quality for some sectors; weak
linkages to line ministries, parishes and others who need to operate and maintain the works and to
continue to address other sector needs, independently of JSIF and in line with their respective mandates.
The lingering negative impact on tourism from the September 11 attacks, recent floods, economic
difficulties and the rising level of violence in the country provide a unique opportunity to build upon the
strengths of JSIF and to streamline its operation. It also opens up the door for ensuring that other
official sector actors do not shunt their responsibilities to JSIF and that the communities have a greater
voice in deciding their needs.
The Bank's global experience in community-based contracting is being used to help JSIF in its
formulation and implementation of community-based contracting. As JSIF has already demonstrated its
ability to achieve effective CDD, introducing CBC would deepen this approach and further help
beneficiaries achieve greater autonomy in all stages of the process.
- 13 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
In most instances, the type of the sub-projects financed, their size, location and other characteristics do
not allow for traditional economic rate of return analyses. However, a very strong proxy for such
analyses emerges when beneficiaries are given the opportunity to assess their needs and establish
priorities. As indicated in Annex 4, Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) analyses done on a sample
of subprojects under the first JSIF operation show substantial economic benefits. Such results can be
expected when the existing facilities are poor and beneficiaries are given the opportunity to assess their
needs and establish priorities. Additionally, by requiring that beneficiaries contribute a minimum of their
own resources (in cash or in kind), the benefits from their choices becomes very evident. Efforts have
been made to ensure that in the selection and design processes for subproject selection, least-cost
consideration will also be more explicitly taken into account. In addition to efficiency factors, such an
approach is also expected to result in more appropriate technology being utilized (e.g. community latrines
instead of individual indoor connections as a first stage for those who can only afford the former at this
time). In its evaluation process for subproject selection, JSIF will incorporate weights for such factors as
project cost (negative correlation); contribution from beneficiaries (positive correlation); contribution
from private sector (positive correlation); operation and maintenance provisions (positive correlation).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
At the local level, matching community needs with the available resources (own, JSIF and other) and
establishing priorities, will be a continuous challenge. In the previous project, a community contribution
of at least 5% of the subproject cost was sought. However, this requirement was reportedly not well
enforced. Additionally, the cost of operation and maintenance was apparently also not fully considered
and so many of the rehabilitation works faced some of the problems which caused their deterioration in
the first place. While explicit cost recovery could be difficult because of both the income level of the
beneficiaries as well as the types of subprojects financed, it was clarified that for such infrastructure
works as water and sanitation or solid waste removal, the sector entities responsible for such services will
levy and collect tariffs in line with their normal policies which include cross subsidies and lifeline rates
for such groups. For the schools, community centers, rural roads and other such works, a clearer
definition of minor versus major maintenance costs will be made and financing responsibilities will have
to be defined during the preparation phase for such works to ensure that all financial obligations are
considered and the respective roles of the community and sector entities are clarified.
Fiscal Impact:
The main fiscal impact will be the counterpart funding from the government, estimated at about US$1 1.1
million, or US$2.2 million per year on average, along with the amortization of the loan. With an
expenditure budget of US$2.6 billion per annum, the government's contribution would have a fiscal
impact of less than 0.1%, however of the non-debt budget this would be equal 0.2%. These figures
would be lower if community contributions (either cash or in-kind) exceed 5%, as is expected under the
project since the selection criteria will favor those communities willing to contribute more. With a 5%
baseline, community contributions will represent about US$0.92 million of the estimated US$18.3
- 14-



miUion spent in project investments. Additional donor grants would also reduce the fiscal impact, but
these have yet to be determined.
Improvements in the effiency of project identification and delivery, as part of the expected benefits under
the new project cycle, would also help to compensate for the increased level of public expenditure.
Moreover, by aiding communities under social stress, these could help alleviate tensions and civil unrest
and thus help protect the tourist industry, a key revenue source for the Govermnent.
3. Technical:
As explained above, technical, financial and economic aspects wiU be more closely integrated in the
selection, analysis and approval processes in order to ensure project sustainability. One identified area of
weakness in JSIF's operation has been in design and quality-control aspects. Provisions have been made
to address these problems. Such provisions include: clearer definition of responsibilities under which
those preparing the designs and related works will be held accountable for their accuracy. The
contractors will have access to all available information about the proposed task and they have to agree to
do the work as specified in the contracts (regarding quality, timeliness, cost, etc.) or face penalties and/or
be excluded from future contracting. JSIF will create and maintain an updated database on project cost
as well as on the performance record of each contractor for each project. To the degree possible, greater
efforts will be made to incorporate design standardization while still being responsive to special
community needs. This will help to facilitate ease of subproject preparation in shorter time and improve
maintenance, while allowing for easier design and cost comparisons.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
JSIF will be the Executing agency for the project. The Social Development Commission and several
Community Based Organizations, Non-Govermmental Organizations, ministries, parishes and other
specialized entities will also participate, helping communities in the formation of their Community Based
Committees, preparation of their Community Development Plans and in approaching the appropriate
entities for investment and maintenance resources. JSIEF wil also provide assistance to help beneficiary
communities develop the required capacity to contract their own work and to make the needed operation
and maintenance arrangements.
4.2 Project management:
The project cycle of JSIF has been reviewed, revised and modified to address both the shortcomings
noted in various assessments of its operation (including the Bank's ICR findings), as well as to make
provisions for Community Based Contracting arrangements. One important feature of the proposed
project is its focus upon the role of JSIF vis-a-vis other sector agencies, the parishes and other specialized
entities. While the charter of JSEF clearly highlights its temporary nature and its role in supplementing
specific gaps for basic services among the poorest residents, JSIF has by default, assumed a much larger
role, partly because of lack of funds in the traditional entities to assume their respective role. Other
entities have worked with JSIF to establish procedures for developing Community Development Plans
and for using these as one tool in the process of identifying to which of the various sector actors the
identified task corresponds. This process reinforces the project goal of reviewing this aspect with GOJ,
JS1P and other entities to reestablish their respective sector obligations and responsibilities.
Additionally, the community based initiatives which are currently underway will bring in both other
donors and other CBOs and NGOs to assist in community development actions.
4.3 Procurement issues:
- 15 -



A review of a samnple of JSIF's subprojects was done in 2001 as part of the supervision of the
just-completed loan. It shows that the guidelines and operational manual of JSIF were consistent with
Bank guidelines but closer JSIP supervision is needed to ensure that these guidelines are consistently
being followed. The project preparation mission conducted a review of JSEF's capacity for complying
with Bank requirements and it found that the updated project cycle and operational manual of JSEF have
taken previous Bank comments into account. Additionally, for the Community Based Contracting
system, apart from facilitating the attendance of JSIF staff at a recent Bank-sponsored CDD Seminar,
Jamaica was used as a pilot country to launch a CDD Fiduciary Management Training Package prepared
by OPCPR. During this process, staff of JSIF, SDC, EU, DFID, IDB and several NGOs were trained in a
fourteen-module program which included, among other things, manuals, material and instructions on
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services, Shopping for Goods, Hiring Labor and Local Bidding.
Additionally, the Bank has provided information to JSIF from successful CBC projects in Malawi and
staff from Malawi visited Jamaica to work with JSIF in preparing its CBC component. Capacity
assessment of the relevant communities which undertake CBC will be conducted prior to any
procurement being done by such communities.
With IDB financing, JSIF's MIS system has also been updated to keep track during all phases of project
implementation and to keep up-to-date record of the performance of each contractor so that appropriate
steps can be taken in cases of contractor non-compliance. Arrangements are also in place to maintain an
updated system of unit prices for all inputs; this will be a very important tool for both JSIF and
community contracting to ensure that bid prices are in line with market prices.
4.4 Financial management issues:
As with the just-completed Bank project, JSIF has the lead role in implementing the new project. A
Financial Management (FM) Assessment carried out by a Bank Financial Management Specialist
concluded that the financial management capacity of the JSIF, with its prior experience in Bank projects,
provide a strong basis for good project financial management. However, some aspects of JSIF's FM
system need strengthening. More importantly, inclusion of the project component for community-based
contracting activities will require several actions with respect to such areas as internal control,
monitoring, and reporting requirements of JSIF and its partner entities. A follow-up Financial Mission
has already conducted a preliminary review with JSIF and the broad operational parameters have been
defined. Follow-up actions will be taken after the community procurement component is more fully
developed after the project becomes effective, with financing for this subcomponent occurring only after
all of the needed control and related measures are approved by the Bank and established in JSIF and
other partner entities.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Sunmmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project is aimed at improving living conditions in poor urban communities through the
construction/improvement of basic infrastructure and social superstructure facilities. The project is
expected to provide: improvements in the urban environment including improved drainage, improved
access on rural roads for farmers and reduced pollution from sanitary waste and wastewater sources. It is
expected that there will also be public health benefits resulting from improved access to potable water
and sanitary facilities. No major adverse environmental impacts are envisaged as a result of the project.
Most of the potential negative impacts will be associated with construction nuisances in populated areas.
These include dust and noise from construction activities; storage and disposal of construction debris;
disruptions to traffic and increased traffic; interruption of public utilities; interruptions and/or limitations
of access to dwellings or businesses; and safety of workers and road users; all of which, if not properly
handled, could negate or reduce the expected benefits mentioned above.
- 16 -



To mnitigate negative environmental impacts of the project, JSIF has designed Environmental Guidelines
for design and implementation for the different infrastructure project typologies that it funds. These
include roads; infirmaries and health centers; sanitary facilities (latrines and community showers);
drainage; water projects; and agro-processing facilities. The guidelines cover aspects of design,
construction, operation and maintenance.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The guidelines previously revised in September 1999 were found to be mostly generic in nature and not
consistently applied among sub-projects. Thereafter, JSIEF has in May 2002, revised and updated its
general environmental guidelines as well as those pertaining to specific project typologies in line with
the relevant legislation pertaining to project planning, design and implementation. The process has
enabled important lessons learnt from past implementation of JSIF sub-projects to be reflected in the
revised guidelines thus improving their aptness for mitigating adverse environmental impacts through
project design and implementation.
Furthermore, significant efforts have been made in the newly revised environmental guidelines to ensure
sustainable environmental practices from project design through operation. To this end, the guidelines
articulate clearly, the environmental review, clearance, mitigation and monitoring processes required
during the project cycle; identifying clearly activities to be carried out and responsibilities in ensuring
that environmental issues form an integral part of the technical analysis of every JSIF infrastructure
project throughout the project cycle. Screening checklists have been developed as part of a technical
evaluation to which all projects are subjected and form the basis for determining the ensuing
environmental appraisal procedure that is performed for each project type depending on the potential
environmental impacts identified during screening. Additionally, where environmental inpact
assessments are required, JSIF guidelines stipulate that the mitigation measures prescribed therein be
incorporated into the scope of work of the project designer. To reinforce the environmental compliance
of projects during construction, environmental mitigation measures are included in the contract
documents, together with penalties for non-compliance by contractors.
In addition, the Operational Manual includes: 1) a negative list of investments (sub-projects that would
be classified as Category A under The World Bank's Environmental Assessment Operational Policy
4.01) which will not be financed under the project; 2) a provision that subprojects that will result in the
significant conversion or degradation of natural habitats will be evaluated to ensure compliance with
Operational Policy 4.04 on Natural Habitats; 3) that in the event that any of the subprojects procure
pesticides or result in increased use of pesticides, an appropriate Pesticide Management Plan, as required
by OP 4.09 on Pest Management, which would include non-chemical measures for pest management and
guidelines for proper selection, application, storage, handling, transport, and disposal of pesticides, will
be developed. Additionally, sub-projects that involve involuntary resettlement will not be eligible for
financing under the project.
To reinforce the effectiveness of its environmental screening and review procedures, JSIF is embarking
on training of its Technical Officers to strengthen their capacity to identify and address environmental
and other technical issues in the various stages of the project cycle. In addition training will focus on
improving the ability of Technical Officers to improve communication and involvement of the
communities where projects are located, during the project cycle.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Review of existing guidelines was
completed on July 31, 2002.
-17 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the enviromnental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The revised guidelines have been prepared in collaboration with professionals with expertise in
the different areas covered by the guidelines; and relevant govermnent entities which are
involved with planning and implementation of similar projects are covered in the guidelines.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
While mechanisms for monitoring environmental impacts of the project have not been explicitly
established in the project, it is expected that many positive environmental and public health
effects will result from this project. Since most of the subprojects involve repairs or renovations
to existing infrastructure or superstiuctures which are in need of such attention, a positive
environmental impact is generally a large part of the expected benefits to the population e.g. by
repairing a broken water distribution line, the supply of clean, potable water is increased.
Similarly, the number of new and renovated toilets and other such facilities will be documented
during project supervision and evaluation. In addition, the revised JSIF guidelines include a
component to selectively assess completed projects with respect to the effectiveness of the
environmental mitigation measures implemented in the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The proposed project has its origins in efforts aimed at improving access to basic service and
socio-economic conditions among the poorest communities in Jamaica. It seeks to empower poor
communities by: i) strengthening their capacity to jointly identify and prioritize strategic community
needs and investments; ii) increasing their abilities and skills to seek and manage financial and
non-financial resources effectively; iii) helping to consolidate functional community development
cooperation arrangements among communities and local government authorities, central government
institutions, private sector, non-governmental organizations and private development foundations whose
contributions will converge on supporting integrated commnunity development plans (CDPs); and iv)
strengthening the foundations of the community as a collective and reinforcing dialogue and negotiation
as a basis for conflict resolution and consensus building. By introducing community procurement for
selected activities under the project, it is expected that these communities will benefit from the greater
control and responsibility which they will have in key decisions about the project works and this feeling
of greater empowerment is expected to have positive impact upon other areas of the community.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Studies of JSIF's operation show that residents of low-income communities, working together with social
workers of the SDC, NGOs and CBOs, have been active participants in the discussions and decisions
made concerning their priority investment needs. The proposed project continues to reinforce and refine
this practice through the provision of greater opportunities for wider community participation in deciding
comnunity needs. Through community contracting procedures, this process is being taken one step
further as communities gain greater voice in whom they contract for getting the works done. Measures
are also being put in place for communities to expand their list of potential source of assistance for
complementary investments and periodic operation and maintenance responsibilities to include not only
- 18 -



JSIF but also the parish authorities and all of the other national entities which are supposed to be
involved in their respective sector. Under the Community Based Contracting component, communities
will have a central role in the formulation of Community Development Plans and will directly manage
and administer project implementation and contracting. In so doing, all active community organizations
(youth clubs, women's organizations, farmers, etc) are expected to participate. In implementing their
CDPs, communities will engage in dialogue and direct negotiation with different partners who are
geared to assist them. The SDC wil be a key player and stakeholder in working with the communities to
manage and implement the plans. It is also expected that private sector companies will actively support
and participate in the definition and implementation of the CDPs via direct funding, sub-contracting
services or implementation of lines of action of the CDP involving employment generation, facilitation of
market access, etc.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Social Development Commission is an entity created by the Government of Jamaica to work with aU
communities in assessing their situation and articulating their needs to the ministries, parishes and other
sector entities. The SDC has an active partnership program with JSIF and several other NGOs, CBOs
and donor agencies and it has taken a lead role in creating the Community Development Committees and
other affiliated entities aimed at promoting community and economic development. The SDC has
oriented several communities and initiated several of the subproject requests which JSIF financed. This
process is expected to continue and become more formalized now that the SDC has assisted many
communities in the creation of the CDCs and in preparing their CDPs. As these mechanisms become
more developed, the role of many NGOs and CBOs will also become more important. As Community
Based Contracting gets more established, this will also increase the potential for participation of other
NGOs, CBOs and private sector entities in the process.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The creation of CDCs and CDPs, with technical assistance from SDC, JSIF and NGOs/CBOs is expected
to strengthen the capacity of beneficiaries to work through the CDCs. Additionally, the CBC process
will provide these beneficiaries with incentives to ensure work quality, timeliness and follow-up
operation and maintenance actions. As these communities improve the community interaction process,
they will gain confidence to approach the ministries and parish authorities to obtain the complementary
assistance they need. In addition, the project is expected to strengthen the role of JSIF and SDC in
creating horizontal dialogue and enhancing coordination among line ministries, local government
authorities and other relevant government organizations, as a way of creating the conditions for
conmmunities to establish fruitful working arrangements, at local level, with such institutions.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Apart from supervision and follow-up activities by JSIF, there will be other third-party studies aimed at
measuring planned versus actual project achievements in several ways. Baseline indicators will be
established for all components and actual achievements will be documented and compared with such
indicators.
- 19 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  (.) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   (. Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     ( Yes a No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        -() Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       () Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Details on the actions which are being taken with respect to the Environmental Assessment are presented
in Sections 5 above. No other Safeguard Policies are being triggered under the proposed project. As with
the previous Batik loan to JSEF, there are no involuntary resettlement issues since sub-projects involving
involuntary resettlement are not considered as eligible projects under JSIP's selection criteria.
While the primary objective of the project is to assist residents in communities most affected by tourism
declines and violence and to promote greater social and community development, all communities
throughout the island are accorded equal. opportunity to participate in the preparation of their respective
Community Development Plans and to seek subproject funding from JSIF. Maroon descendants live
throughout the island and are concentrated in several remote areas of Jamaica. JSIF does not have a
special program for the Maroons because of the primary focus of the project as well as the opportunity
which exists for all communities, including the Maroons, to participate in the project. JSIF has identified
five communities which are primarily populated by descendants of Maroons. Of these, three are in the
Quartile 4 range of the Poverty Map used by JSIF as one of the qualifying criterion for subproject
assistance. JSIF has already financed two projects, a basic school and a road, in one of these
comrmunities; an indication that these communities do have access to JSIF assistance. Through continued
recordkeeping and evaluation procedures, there will be close monitoring of the beneficiary profile to
ensure that all targeted low income commnunities are among the beneficiaries of the project. And, should
the need arise, JSEF will take the necssary actions to ensure appropriate access to any under-represented
target group.
-20 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
JSIF's charter states that it is a temporary entity whose task is to help address critical needs which, for
various reasons, cannot be currently addressed by the traditional sector entities for such tasks. Given the
great need which exists in Jamaica today for assistance from JSIF, it is expected to continue into the
forseeable future. Also, with a revised project cycle in place, most of the weaknesses identified during
implementation of the previous project are not expected to reappear, primarily because of project cycle
provisions for greater accountability from contractors, clearer definition of lines of operation and
maintenance responsibilities among the primary actors, and greater follow-up actions by JSIF. The
creation of CDCs and CDPs is also expected to promote project sustainability to the degree that the new
CDCs will develop into strong lobbying entities and take greater responsibilities for their own social and
economic development and appropriately operate and maintain the works which they planned and
contracted. Implementing CBC will also inject new project management skills into the communities,
which should improve operation and maintenance of the sub-projects and could encourage ancillary
investments and activities.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating.           Risk Mitigation Measure.
From Outputs to Objective
Contractors and consultants fail to       M         Enforcement of penalty clauses and
perform as expected under the revised               blacklisting, which can be tracked in new MIS
conditions.                                         system.
Contractors are not commited to goal of   H         Projects with higher labor input will be
employment creation in implementation               weighted more. Community reports back to
of project works.                                   JSIF.
JSLF, SDC and other participants do not   H         Phased payment tranches will be delayed if
have access to subproject areas                     JSIF and SDC officers do not get access (due to
throughout the project cycle (because of            coercion).
coercion)
Government support for CDC and CDP        M         Continuous interaction with key staff to ensure
wavers.                                             continued Government commitment to the
program.
CBC proves not to be a viable             M         TA and assistance to NGOs and CBOs to build
mechanism for promoting social                      upon existing community participation
development in Jamaica                              initiatives.
Lack of cooperation between JSIF and      M         Joint orientation and follow-up sessions among
sector entities                                     the primary entities and JSIF
From Components to Outputs
-Criteria developed for project selection  N        Periodic evaluation of criteria to ensure
are not effective in achieving the                  relevance. During sub-project appraisals,
objectives.                                         project design will take into account objectives.
Close supervision of projects.
-Projects are not carried out in a timely  M        Improved MIS system will provide early
manner.                                             warning and trigger action to penalize
nonperforming contractors.
-Not enough communities able to           M         Promotion campaign by JSIF to. cover regular
participate in CBC.                                 sub-projects and CBC. Extensive community
-21 -



training programs.
-Institutional ability of JSIF, SDC, NGOs  H       Training and periodic review of procedures
and CBOs to work with communities                  will be implemented. Creation of simplified
throughout the project cycle is limited.           handbooks to guide users.
-Difficulty for JSIF to make the          M        Training and preparatory sessions and a
institutional adjustments needed for               reasonable adjustment period.
implementing the new program package,
approach and operational guidelines.
-Inadequate staffing skills in line with  H        Payment of competitive salaries, majority of
overall programme and project objectives           training budget to be dispensed at an early
and high staff turnover.                           stage in the project.
-Lack of cooperation between JSIF and     H        New procedures for subproject identification
sector entities.                                   TA and other activities are designed to improve
such cooperation.
Overall Risk Rating                       H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No possible controversial aspects have been identified.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Signing of Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between JSEF and Government of Jamaica.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
JSIF cannot contract more than $3 million of JSIF Subproject funds until the first group of eligible
communities participating in the Community Subprojects have been legally registered and trained in
community contracting.
JSEF shall maintain and thereafter update its MIS database on input (material and labor) cost, project cost
and performance record of contractor and consultants for all project works.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-22 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
I)akoor Persaud                  Danny M. Leipzig                 Ors ia  alantzopou os
Team Leader                      Sector ManagerD     t            Couitry Manager/Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Key PefloriWaihie"F! PDti     Ito,tatb,
'Hierar,chy o.t.Objectives;.   .' Indcio'rs.-.A, *  4,7. -.      -. -             Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Ensuring inclusion and     Stabilization of poverty level. Survey of Living Conditions.  Violence does not increase.
protecting the poor.
Improved access to basic                              Economy stabilizes.
services.
GOJ poverty-reduction
program continues.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To aid low-income          1. Increase in access to and  MIS reports on project  Political and related
communities by providing   quality of basic services.  advance.                 interference can be minimized,
basic services and temporary  2. Number of incremental                          especially in urban areas.
employment opportunities (in temporary jobs created
response to demand for basic  (gender, number, skilled, and                     No major socio/political
services and the effects of  unskilled).                                        disruptions during project
violence and lingering post  3. Improved operation and                          implementation.
9-11 impact on tourism flows). maintenance of project
facilities.                                           GOJ provides the needed
counterpart funds in a timely
manner.
To assist the government of  I .Increase in the number of  Periodic evaluation and  SDC and other entities will
Jamaica in its efforts to  projects financed by JSIF after surveys by consultants and  adopt improved community
promote social and community being identified in Community beneficiaries.       development criteria.
driven development,        Development Plans (CDPs)
especially among the poor.  2. Increase in the number of
communities which develop
the capacity to select their own
priority projects and to
manage project contracting
and project implementation
effectively to ensure work
quality, reasonable costs, and
timeliness.
3.Evidence of increased
complementary investment
generated (from residents,
other public sector entities and
the private sector) through
JSIF and Social Development
Commission (SDC) assistance
to community groups.
4. Number of subprojects with
active community maintenance
plans and clear indication of
agreed support from line
ministries and/or local
authorities.
5. Level of community
-24-



satisfaction with subproject
and performance of
sponsoring entities, JSIF,
SDC, and CDC.
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Subprojects (for repairs,  1. Number and type of     QuarterlyProgress          Contractors and consultants
renovation and construction of sub-projects.         reports/MIS.               perform as expected under the
basic infrastructure and social 2. Increased number of                          revised conditions.
superstructure facilities) are  incremental temporary jobs  Supervision reports.
completed and appropriately  created by the project (by                         High contractor commitment
utilized.                  gender, total number, skill  Third-party reviews     to goal of employment
level).                                              creation in implementation of
3. Increased community                               project works.
participation in maintenance
of projects.
4. Facility utilization rate over
time.
Improved effectiveness of  I. Number of subproject   Mid-term review            JSIF, SDC and other
community organizations in  requests identified through                         participants have access to
identifying, planning,     CDP.                      Stakeholder consultations  subproject areas throughout
executing and maintaining  2. Number and type of                                the project cycle.
subprojects.               subprojects financed through
CBC                                                   Government support for
3. Number of people trained to                        encouraging CDC and CDP
support community                                     continues.
development.
4. Increase in the average                            CBC proves to be a viable
percent of community                                  mechanism for promoting
contribution in the                                   social development
subprojects.
Improved and more efficient  1. Reduced time taken to  Financial and operational  Cooperation between JSIF and
institutions (JSIF, SDC) for  prepare and implement  audits                     sector entities.
coordinating the provision of  sub-projects.
basic needs and services to  2. Improved quality in design
communities.               and preparation of
sub-projects.
3. Effective use of the new
operational guidelines.
4. Active dialogue with line
ministries to obtain their
effective engagement in
equipping and maintaning
project facilities.
- 25 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Sub-projects              $18.3 mln                 Supervision reports, Quarterly Criteria developed for project
i. Works Contracted through                         Reports.                   selection are effective in
JSIF.                                                                          targeting the objectives.
ii. Works Contracted through                                                   Projects are carried out in a
Community Based                                                               timely manner with greater
Contracting.                                                                   community involvement.
Willingness of the
communities to participate.
Ability of JSIF, SDC, NGOs
and CBOs to work with
communities throughout the
project cycle.
TA and institutional      $2.2 mln                  Audit reports.             Cooperation between JSIF and
strengthening.                                                                 sector entities.
Adequate staffing skills in line
with overall programme and
project objectives
Low staff turnover within
primary entities.
Project Administration    $9 mln                                               Smooth implementation by the
Board of JSIF and staff of the
new program package
approach and operational
guidelines.
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Overview.
The proposed project is designed to address both some of the temporary and longer-term problems which
Jamaica currently faces (high unemployment, poor access to basic services, crime and violence and
socio-political divisiveness). Working through JSIF as the primary implementing agency, funds will be
channeled to sub-projects which are identified by the communities through such community-driven
development devices, including open forums guided by community facilitators from such entities as SDC
or various NGOs and CBOs.
In the initial stage of the project, the primary focus will be upon provision of basic infrastructure
investments identified as priority ones by the communities which seek such services. In order to
commence quickly, JSIF will review the backlog of unfunded requests which it currently has. It will
identify those located in areas affected by tourism decline and it will select priority projects meeting the
selected criteria established in the operating manual. It will contract out the approved works in the
targeted communities (see below, Component I - Subprojects Contracted by JSIF) via competitive bids.
In this way, JSIF will be providing priority basic services while at the same time, helping to generate
temporary employment opportunities within the selected communities.
In parallel with the above, during the first year of project implementation, JSIF will also introduce and
implement community-based contracting (CBCs) sub-projects which, in addition to providing priority
basic services among needy communities, will also promote community development at various levels.
Since this is a relatively new system, there will be an initial institutional learning curve for JSIF and all
participants. Funds will be available for technical assistance and training to JSIF staff and other entities
(SDC, CDC) involved in mobilizing the communities (Component 2) as well as funds to hire new staff
(Component 3) as part of the organizational changes needed to implement CBC. It is expected that a
four-month startup period will be needed before the communities should attempt CBC. To ensure that
progress is made in implementing CBCs, funds dispensed for works contracted directly via JSIF will be
conditioned upon progress in getting CBC investments underway.
Sub-projects for both types of contracting will be demand-driven and reflect the priority needs of the
affected communities. The communities will be selecting these sub-projects from a menu of sub-projects
which can be financed by JSEF which cove basic infrastructure, social superstructure facilities, and social
services and employment assistance.
Subprojects are those activities which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and
consist of: (i) social infrastructure projects which consist of: (a) the rehabilitation, expansion or
construction of schools, health centers, day care centers, shelter homes for children, the elderly
and the disabled, community centers, training facilities and sport facilities, including the
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefore; or (b) the rehabilitation or
construction of latrines, community showers, drains and canals and community-based water
systems; (ii) economic infrastructure projects which consist of: (a) the rehabilitation or upgrading
of parochial, feeder and urban access roads; or (b) the rehabilitation or construction of
community-based agro-processing facilities; or (iii) social services projects which consist of: (a)
the provision of technical assistance and training in career guidance, job placement, counseling,
and parenting and family-life education; or (b) the provision of training in productive sector
skills.
-27-



While the list of activities will be the same for both types of contracts, JSIF will be executing larger and
more complex subprojects while the communities will be contracting smaller and relatively simple ones.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$18.30 million
WB Financing: $12.38 million
JSIF Subprojects:
Total: $15.1 million
WB Financing: $9.8 million
These will be subprojects contracted by JSIF. Under this component, basic services are to be provided in
poor communities which suffer from the effects of recent declining tourism expenditures. JSIF already
has a backlog of requests for priority basic services from communities throughout the island. In order to
provide a quick response to basic service needs of such groups while generating much-needed
investments in the affected communities, JSEF will select those requests which meet established
pre-approved weighted criteria, including the number of temporary unskilled jobs created. The
sub-project menu would include those activities already being financed by JSIF in line with its charter,
such as those described above, and innovative projects to reach the more vulnerable populations,
particularly in the urban areas where traditional JSEF projects have not been as successful. JSIF will then
contract the works through private contractors/consultants, with the beneficiary communities being
closely involved in the process.
Both urban and rural communities are expected to benefit from works under this component. However,
since JSIF's strength has traditionally been in the rural and semi-urban areas, efforts are being made to
have JSIF use partner entities which have relatively greater experience in urban areas.
Community Subprojects:
Total: $3.3 million
WB Financing: $2.6 million
This component will promote demand-driven and community-contracted and managed projects to
provide basic services and infrastructure within such communities. Currently, the parrishes and other
authorities are working with several communities to form Community Development Committees which
are preparing Community Development Plans. Prior to preparing this project, the Eurpoean Union (EU),
and British Department for Intemational Development (DFID) have been working with JSIF, the SDC
and several community groups to develop Community Based Contracting models. The Bank's
contribution under this project will enrich such efforts aimed at strengthening community ownership,
cooperation, management, maintenance, and help generate temporary jobs within the participating
communities. This component will provide JSIF with the opportunity to formalize and structure such an
arrangement, building upon the Bank's successful experience with community contracting, primarily in
Africa.
Over the next year, JSIF's project cycle and manual will be revised to incorporate the special procedures
needed for community based contracting. Along with TA and several orientation material which have
already been discussed with JSIF, handbooks and other material which are being field-tested by OPCPR
for community procurement in Jamaica, will be incorporated into the documents used for community
procurement in this project. Because this is a relatively new tool, it is anticipated that there may be need
for mid-stream adjustments and modifications as the process gets underway and obstacles arise and are
addressed.
-28-



The role of the SDC and NGOs will be very pivotal as JSIF works with the communities and CDCs to
prepare CDPs and to implement them via community based contracts. Interested communities can apply
for community based contracting projects only after they have complied with all of the various
requirements (including the establishment of formal entities with elected representatives and other
related conditions as stipulated in JSIF's guidelines). Financing for community based contracting works
will commence only after Bank-approved procedures are in place. This is expected to occur within one
year of project effectiveness.
These subprojects will cost less than US$100,000 equivalent.
Project Component 2 - US$3.04 million
WB Financing: $2.17 million
Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening. One area of focus of this component will be upon
the implementation of the JSIFs newly-revised project cycle, which addresses several of the
shortcomings mentioned in the evaluation reports on JSIF. Improvements in the project cycle should
lead to shorter project cycles, better project designs, higher community contributions, greater
responsiveness of the communities and clearing of the pipeline each year. The JSIF Operations Manual
has been revised to reflect greater focus upon these areas.
As JSIF moves toward promoting more CBC projects, it will need to train its staff, partners and
beneficiary communities to facilitate more effective community dialogue. Moreover, as JSIF's role
evolves into a more catalytic and facilitating entity, better coordination between JSIF, the communities,
parishes and line ministries will also be needed. This component will be used to finance technical
assistance and training (for consultants and stakeholder workshops) of JSIF and its partner organizations
(SDC, CDS, KRC, and other NGOs and beneficiary groups). Financing will also be provided for
institutional strengthening activities to enable JSIF to fully incorporate CBC into its operations.
Implementing CBC will require additional support for JSIF as compared to traditional JSIF-contracted
sub-projects, CBC projects will demand more labor intensive interaction with the communities,
particulary with the amount of training needed. This component includes provisions to finance
consultants to help JSIF in procurement activities, community liaisons and technical issues in the
sub-projects (estimated at 2 procurement officers, 2 social officers, and 1 technical officer for project
implementation).
Project Component 3 - US$ 8.16 million
WB Financing: $0.30 million
Project Administration. While the counterpart funding will be used to pay for staff and operational
funding, this component will provide for goods (equipment and vehicles) needed to support the increased
activity associated with community contracting. Funding will be available for goods needed to facilitate
sub-project supervision, monitoring and community training.
-29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
N ^>-  i    Pr6jectlCost By Cipo ient4            *$                  Wilion    U$uii
Subprojects                                              16.00          2.30        18.30
Technical Assistance, Institutional Strengthening, Training  2.49       0.55         3.04
Project Administration (including Goods)                  6.66          1.50         8.16
Total Baseline Cost                                      25.15          4.35        29.50
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'             25.15         4.35         29.50
Front-end fee                    0.15          0.15
Total Financing Required              25.15         4.50        29.65
1-oc1       -_reig       .-Total,7
-ProiectCost _By_Categ ory  U- -    ;llS $rmillibawc       in    ; '   jilion:
Goods                                                       0.15          0.20         0.35
Works                                                      16.00          2.30         18.30
Services                                                    2.20          0.54          2.74
Administrative                                              6.50          1.31          7.81
Training                                                    0.30          0.00          0.30
Total Project Costs     25.15           4.35        29.50
Front-end fee                    0.15         0.15
Total Financing Required     25.15          4.50         29.65
Note: Since the project is essentially a financial intermediary type operation, no contingencies have been
provided for the sub-projects. Any increases in the average subproject cost would be reflected in a
reduced number of subprojects executed.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.61 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 27.04 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
55.47% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 30 -



Annex 4
Economic Analysis Summary
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Background
In most instances, the type of the sub-projects financed, their size, location and other characteristics do
not allow for traditional economic rate of return analyses. However, there is a very strong proxy for such
analyses when beneficiaries are given the opportunity to assess their needs and establish priorities.
Additionally, by requiring that beneficiaries contribute a minimum of their own resources (in cash or in
kind), the importance of the subproject becomes very evident. In JSIF's project selection and design
processes, efforts have been made to ensure that least-cost consideration will be more explicitly taken
into account. In addition to efficiency factors, such an approach is also expected to result in more
appropriate technology being utilized (e.g. community latrines instead of in-house connections as a first
stage for those who can only afford the former at this time). In its evaluation process, JSIF will
incorporate weights for such factors as project cost (negative correlation); contribution from beneficiaries
(positive correlation); contribution from private sector (positive correlation); operation and maintenance
provisions (positive correlation).
Economic Analysis of Previous JSIF Sub-projects
In 2001, an impact-evaluation study was conducted by an external consultant to measure the impact of
JSIF sub-projects. In particular, economic analyses were performed on water and road projects with very
favorable results. The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the 12 rural road projects examined
ranged from 7% to 23%, with an average of 13%. The IERR for the 9 water projects ranged from 83% to
303%, and averaged 198%. The high rates for the water supply projects was probably because most of
the interventions were in rural communities which had no regular or easy access to potable water. The
reduction in water-borne diseases and time-savings also tend to greatly increase the benefits of such
water projects.
Economic Analysis of Community-Based Contracting Sub-projects
Studies show that if conducted properly, the benefits derived from community-based contracting usually
exceed those under private contracting. CBCs are designed to elicit greater community participation in
all stages of project construction. Greater participation of the community could lower project cost and
increase benefits to the participants. Moreover it helps to promote a better sense of ownership and with
this, greater interest in maintenance and operation, which results in lower life-cycle costs.
Support for these observations comes from the recently-published "Social Funds 2000 Impact
Evaluation" which evaluated the comparative costs between direct contracting and community-based
contracting. The results showed that in all of the countries in the study, community managed resources
led to lower unit costs. Lower cost per unit resulted from lower contractor profit margins, greater
transparency and accountability, better control of price escalations, and less expenditure on materials.
Moreover, it was found that community-based projects raised the level of local support better than those
that were contracted out. Though workmanship of community projects was slightly lower and project
completion took longer, these were not considered significant negative factors. In other cases such as the
Mexico Municipal Fund Program, CBC project costs were reportedly 30% below those using outside
contractors and the quality of the projects was also superior to those in State programs.
- 31 -



Since CBC will be a new element to JSIF, data on CBC project costs and quality will be maintained and
later compared with traditional sub-projects to measure cost effectiveness and efficiency. Aside from the
financial cost aspect, other benefits from CBC will also be measured, including social mobilization,
training of community members in procurement and contracting, and improved sustainability of the
completed projects.
-32-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Years Ending
June 30
| .. . IMIPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Y Year1 I    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.0       3.5        3.6       4.0       3.0        1.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.2        2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5        1.2      0.0
Total Project Costs         3.2        6.0        6.1       6.5       5.5        2.2      0.0
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             3.2        6.0        6.1       6.5       5.5        2.2       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.0        3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       1.0       0.0
Government                0.9        2.3       2.4        2.8       1.8       0.8       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers                                                       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.1        0.2        0.2       0.2       0.1       0.1        0.0
Other                       0.2        0.5        0.5       0.5       0.6       0.3        0.0
Total Project Financing     3.2       6.0        6.1       6.5       5.5       2.2        0.0
Main assumptions:
Continued parallel financing from other donors will be forthcoming. JSIF currently receives about 60% of
its funds from other agencies, including the Inter-American Development Bank, Caribbean Development
Bank, CIDA, Government of the Netherlands, European Union, Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries and Britain's DFID.
The project is for 5 years, spread over 6 fiscal years.
-33 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World
Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in
January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and"
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002),
and the provisions stipulated in the Project Agreement between the Bank and the Jamaica
Social Investment Fund.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described
below, and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The
threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project would include works for subprojects to be procured
and implemented by JSIF totaling US$15.05 million equivalent. Works estimated to cost
more than US$100,000 will be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures, using standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Works
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured following Three Quotations
procedures using model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
In the case of community subprojects, and on exceptional cases where three quotations
are not feasible to obtain, procurement of work might be carried out by direct contracting,
and prior agreement with the Bank will be sought.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include office supplies and equipment totaling
US$350,000 equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped
into bidding packages of more than US$150,000 equivalent and procured following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with an estimated value below this threshold per
contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million may be procured using
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed
with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding
packages and estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.1 million, may be procured using national shopping procedures based on
a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
- 34 -



Selection of Consultants
Technical Assistance for institutional strengthening and training are estimated to cost
US$2.2 million equivalent and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for
Proposals.
Firms
Contracts for firms estimated to cost more than US$50,000 will be procured using
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Contracts for firms estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 up to an amount of US$1.0 million equivalent may be procured
using Consultant Qualification (CQ) or Least Cost Selection (LCS) methods.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.5 million.
Subproiects Contracted bv Communities: The Loan would partially finance the cost of
goods and services for the implementation of demand driven subprojects to be proposed
and implemented by communities. They are estimated to amount US$3.25 million
equivalent. These subprojects will have a cost ceiling of US$100,000 and will be selected
following the criteria established in the Project Operations Manual. The goods and works
for the subprojects will be procured following Three Quotations procedures.
Where three quotations are not feasible to obtain, procurement of works might be carried
out by direct contracting, and prior agreement with the Bank will be sought.
The Operations Manual will include detailed procedures for procurement of small works
contracts, including community contracting.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on
the procurement capacity assessment of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) and
are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of individual procurement
actions, the procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.
B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
The Jamaica Social Investment Fun, JSIF, a temporary, autonomous Government
sponsored institution, will coordinate project implementation. The JSIF is composed by a
Board of Directors, a Managing Director and four management units: (i) Research,
Evaluation, Documentation and Dissemination (REDD) Unit, (ii) Operations
Coordination Unit, (iii) Financial and Administration Department, and (iv) a Management
Information System Unit. Within the Finance and Administration Department, a
Procurement Unit carries out procurement activities and an Accounting Unit is
-35 -



responsible for. recording project expenditures and preparing financial statements.
Initially, the subprojects will be procured and implemented only by JSIF. Capacity
assessment of the communities will be carried out before the CBC component can
commence. Within the Operations Coordination Unit, a Community Projects Unit will
assist the Communities in the preparation of subprojects and applications for JSIF
financing; a Screening and Project Concept Development Committee will review and
approve the subprojects submitted by the Communities. For a project to be eligible for JSIF
funding it must be within the Government's poverty-mapped area; be in JSIF's priority project
menu; have no resettlement requirements; include some form of beneficiary contribution; and for
Community Based Contracting, demonstrate the capacity of the community to undertake the
works. In the project analysis and selection process, priority will be given to subprojects which
have simple design; involve small works; have a relatively high ratio of unskilled labor needs;
have short implementation period; benefit a relatively large pool of poor residents; have a
relatively large share of community contribution; are in an advanced stage of preparation and
include sustainable operation and maintenance provisions. The Procurement Unit within the
Finance and Administration Department will carry out the procurement process for
contracting the construction of the subprojects and consultant services for their
supervision.
Commencing the second year, selected subprojects will be contracted and implemented
by the communities that demonstrate capacity to assume subproject implementation, and
JSIF will continue implementing subprojects for the communities that do not have such
capacity. For the subprojects.to be implemented by the communities, JSIF would sign a
Financing Agreement with the sponsor community under a lump-sum basis. Payments to the
community would be made in tranches on the basis of physical progress and the community
would be responsible for the procurement of works, goods and services required for the
subproject implementation. Consistent with the Operational Manual and the capacity assessment
of the community, the financing agreeement with the community will spell out, among other
things, the procurement arrangements to be used by the community.
An assessment of the capacity of the JSIF to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on July 25, 2002. The
proposed organization, the staffing of the JSIF and the project implementation arrangements are
satisfactory. A Project Operations Manual will include procurement procedures, standard bidding
documents to be used for each procurement method, and model contracts for works and goods
procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping.
a)    The main risks identified in the assessment include: (i) Staff High turnover of JSIF
technical staff that constitutes a risk for an efficient project implementation, especially on
procurement activities; (ii) Limited Implementation Capacity of CBC Communities: Since this
is a relatively new role for the communities, there will be a learning process. As discussed in
other sections, the Bank has taken several steps (OPCPR seminar, JSIF staff visits, planned
community capacity assessment), aimed at facilitating this process and minimizing expected
problems; (iii)Bidding Documents and Bidding Process : The Communities are not familiar
with procurement procedures. The risk of procurement procedures inadequately applied is high;
(iv) Construction Designs and Technical Specifications: Deficiencies occurred in the
- 36 -



construction designs and technical specifications were cause for problems in the previous project
implementation. They may also occur in the proposed project; (v) Subproject implementation:
lack of experience in project implementation by Communities; (vi) Audit: the Internal Audit Unit
is not staffed; and (vii) Record Filing: Present JSIF system for filing procurement records is
inadequate.
b)    The following plan to address these risks is included in the PCA report and was agreed by
the JSIF: By negotiations: (i) JSIF will submit to the Bank a Procurement Plan for the first six
months of project implementation and will commit to update the plan every six months; (ii) JSIF
to submit a draft Project Operation Manual (POM) that include selection criteria of subprojects,
procurement procedures fully consistent with Bank Guidelines for Procurement and Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants, detailed procedures and instructions for filing of procurement records,
and SBDs with one-envelop system; (iii) JSIF to (a) appoint an Internal Auditor, and (b) provide
evidence to the Bank that contract for external audit has been extended, or if not, to contract a
new firm. Before the start of procurement of works: (v) JSEF staff would include two senior
procurement officers. One of them to coach Communities and oversee their procurement
activities; (vi) JSIF will appoint qualified individual consultants to review the standard designs
for roads, schools and medical centers as well as their technical specifications. Before the start
of subproject implementation: (vii) JSIF to invite NGOs to submit proposals for assisting the
Communities in subproject implementation; (viii) Capacity assessment of communities.
The overall project risk for-procurement is AVERAGE. The project is ELIGIBLE for
FMR-based disbursements on procurement reporting grounds in view that the project
includes improvements to JSIF Management Information System.
C) Procurement Plan
Prior to negotiations, the Borrower submitted a Procurement Plan for project implementation.
The aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A) are based on project cost
estimates. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan
with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the JSIF has recommended one supervision mission to visit the field every three
months during the first year and one full supervision mission once every six months thereafter to
carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE)
the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.
- 37-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement'Meotho
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00             2.45          12.60         0.00        15.05
(0.00)           (1.50)        (8.30)        (0.00)      (9.80)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.35           0.00         0.00         0.35
(0.00)          (0.30)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.30)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00           2.75         0.00         2.75
Technical assistance and             (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.92)        (0.00)      (1.92)
institutional strengthening 3/
4. Project Management                0.00             0.00           0.00         7.81         7.81
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00             0.00           0.15         0.00         0.15
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.15)        (0.00)      (0.15)
6. Sub-Projects Contracted by        0.00             0.00           3.25         0.00         3.25
Communities 4/                       (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.58)        (0.00)      (2.58)
7. Training 5/                       0.00             0.00           0.30         0.00         0.30
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.25)        (0.00)      (0.25)
Total                              0.00            2.80           19.05         7.81        29.66
___    (0.00)          (1.80)         (13.20)       (0.00)      (15.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to managing the project. Consultant selection will be made using individual consultants method.
3/ WB component includes funds for technical assistance to JSlF to implement CBC, institutional strengthening to
NGOs and communities; project evaluation and monitoring; and general institutional support to JSIF.
4/ Demand driven sub-projects to be implemented by communities. The goods and works for these subprojects will
be procured following three quotations procedures for contracts less than US$100,000, and direct contracting for
works contracts with a value less than US$5,000 and goods contracts with a value less than US$2,000
5/ US$63,000 for CBC training workshops to the communities, US$187,000 training programs to NGOs and
commumties.
- 38 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
,. *             -               ~~~~~~~~~Selection Method         .
Consultant Services.                       S         Method
Expenditure Category  QCBS   OBS      SFB    LCS       CO     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.70     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00     1.70
(0.55)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.80)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.35)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.05    0.00     1.05
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.57)  (0.00)   (0.57)
Total  0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00     1.05   0.00      2.75
1 (0.55)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.80)   (0.57)  (0.00)   (1.92)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 39 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >$100K                   NCB               All over $200K: 1.2
< $100K           Three quotations (JSIF)  First five contracts: 1.3
2. Goods                      > $150K                   ICB                     All
<$150K                   NCB                 First two: 0.25
<$25K               Local shopping               None
<$2K               Direct contracting           None
3. Services                    >$50K                   QCBS                   All : 0.7
Firms                          <$50K            LCS (auditing), CQ (for      Only TORs
other contracts)
4. Services - Individuals      >$50K          See Section V of guidelines  All (TOR, contract, CV)
<$50K                                          Only TOR
5. Services -                  >$50K                                             All
NGO-sponsored and              <$50K                                      First three contracts
executed sub-projects
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $3.55 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
reviewing a sample of I in 5 contracts signed. In the first year of community based contracting,
supervision mission should be conducted every 3 months.
I\
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 40 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
As with the just-completed Bank project, JSEF has the lead role in implementing the new project. A
Financial Management (FM) Assessment carried out' by a Bank Financial Management Specialist
concluded that the financial management capacity of the JSIF, with its prior experience in Bank projects,
provides a strong basis for good project financial management. However, some aspects of JSIF's FM
system need strengthening. More importantly, inclusion of the project component for community-based
contracting activities will require several actions with respect to such areas as intemal control,
monitoring, and reporting requirements of JSIF and its partner entities. These actions can only be taken
after the community procurement component is better defined (after the project becomes effective), with
all of the needed control and related measures approved by the Bank and established in JSIF and other
partner entities.
Country Context.   The latest Jamaica Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was
completed in May 2001. While it identified a number of weaknesses in govemment financial
management, the CFAA came to a general conclusion that there is a foundation of transparency and
accountability in public financial management systems. The CFAA also noted a number of reforms
currently underway, including those financed in part by the Bank via the Public Sector Modemization
project. Bank-financed projects are therefore encouraged to utilize existing govemment systems,
including those of entities such as JSIF, rather than creating entirely separate, project-specific FM
arrangements.
Description and Assessment of FM Arrangements
The Entity. JSIF received support from the Bank-financed Jamaica Social Investment Fund project,
which closed in 2001, and continues to function as an ongoing legal entity. Current JSIF operations are
funded by a number of sources, including the Government of Jamaica, the Inter-American Development
Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, OPEC, and the EU.
Under the previous Bank-financed JSIF project, a number of financial management issues arose, as a
result of audits, Bank missions, and other supervision processes.  However, as stated in the
just-completed ICR of this project, Financial Management was considered to be much improved by the
end of the operation as compared to the earlier years (1996-97).
Staffing of the Finance Function. JSIF's Finance and Administration Unit is considered to be fully
staffed. It is headed by a Finance and Administration Manager, and also includes a Financial Controller,
Financial Analyst, Financial Accountant, and Accounting Clerk. All staff have sufficient background
and experience for their duties. The financial staff are considered capable of absorbing the duties of the
proposed project to the degree that it is implemented in a manner similar to current JSEF operations. The
requirements of the community based contracting system will require some additional preparation of the
staff and this will be done after the community based contracting system is developed.
Funds Flow Arrangements. Funds would be managed through a process which is similar to that used
for the previous JSIIF Bank loan in which a Special Account was maintained in US dollars, and payments
were made to local contractors via a local currency account. All funds would be first budgeted via the
Govemment's normal budget processes, with counterpart funds made available on a quarterly basis via
- 41 -



the Government's warrant system.
After the community based contracting system becomes operational during the first year of project
implementation, additional internal control and reporting arrangements acceptable to the Bank would be
put in place before funding for that component can commence.
Accounting System. During 2000 and 2001, JSIF migrated from the MACOLA accounting software
package to ACCPAC. ACCPAC is now considered to be fully functioning. Duties for entering and
maintaining information in the system are segregated among the financial staff. The software has a
multi-currency feature, but this is limited in that it only allows for the translation of balances - this is
sufficient for asset and liability accounts, but for sources or uses of funds, the average or weighted
average exchange rates must be manually calculated. This is not an ideal arrangement but represents an
improvement over MACOLA which did not have any multi-currency capabilities.
In-kind contributions are generally required to be made by the communities where JSEF projects are
undertaken, although compliance with this requirement has not been consistent. JSIF is considered to
have an adequate system for recording these contributions. In the past, the project supervisor had to
certify that the contributions are actually made and this certification is then reviewed by the JSIF internal
auditor before entry into the accounting system (as a simultaneous source and use of funds). For this
project, the internal auditor will not be involved in such a line function, but instead be allowed to focus
on systemic issues.
Financial Management Procedures. The updated JSIF Operational manual, dated July 2002, contains
the key financial procedures. This manual reflects procedural changes including those arising from this
project. Further modifications, acceptable to the Bank, will have to be made during the first year of
project implementation in order to accommodate the requirements of the community based contracting
component before disbursements for this component are perrmitted.
Reporting and Monitoring. JSIF produces a number of internal financial reports, while also having to
create reports for the various donors. Through the use of macros, customized reports can be generated
directly in Excel from ACCPAC, which facilitates this process. Each donor has a unique code in the
software which allows for the transactions related to that financier to be segregated.
For the NCD project, two main financial-oriented reports will be submitted to the Bank. The annual
financial statements will be prepared and audited as in the JSIF project. JSIF's audit reports represent a
"good practice" model for streamlined reporting, in that an overall report is produced which incorporates
the specific information related to various stakeholders. In addition to the audit report, all Bank-financed
projects must produce a Financial Monitoring Report, which includes information on financial, physical,
and procurement progress. These reports are normally linked by reporting by project components and
activities. The infornation from ACCPAC, along with that contained in the JSIF MIS, will be used not
only to generate FMRs, but more generally, to provide better information for JSIF managers and other
stakeholders.
Risks.
The following matrix details the financial management risk assessment for the project. The greatest risks
are posed by the nature of social fund operations, including the decentralized, community-oriented
implementation of.many small projects and the inherent political pressures on such organizations. These
inherent risks are mitigated in part by the arrangements that have been put in place in JSIF in recent years.
- 42 -



.______ _  Risk Assessment
H       S     M      N               Comments
Inherent Risk
Country                                    X
Entity                                     X           FM systems recently improved
Project                              x                 Due to nature of Social Investment
I_Funds and dispersion of authority
Overall Inherent Risk          x                  Track record of JSIF for CBC not
yet fully established
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity                      x
2. Funds Flow                        x
3. Staffing                                 x
4. Accounting Policies and                  x
Procedures                         .
5. Internal Audit                    x                 Weak in the past
6. External Audit                                 x
7. Reporting and Monitoring                 x          Project reporting arrangements
still to be established
8. Information Systems                      x          Better linkages still sought
between MIS and FM system -
management info needs not being
.______________________  _ _ _ _ _ _   fully   m et
Overall Control Risk                 x_
H - High   S - Substantial    M - Moderate        N - Negligible or Low
Summary of Strengths and Weaknesses of FM Arrangements
Key strengths of the project's FM arrangements are:
*   The entity's experience with a prior Bank-financed project
* Sufficiently staffed financial function without minimal recent turnover of key financial staff
(Finance and Admin. Manager, Financial Controller)
* Adequate external audit arrangements and a record of understandable, informative audit reports
and management letters
*   Recently installed/established accounting software and fixed assets tracking system
Key areas to be arranged or improved are:
*   Chart of accounts and reporting arrangements for the proposed project (reflecting definition of
project objectives, components, and financial plan/costs)
* Appointment of an internal auditor who has a strong voice with the JSIF Board
* Definition of funds flow arrangements to provide adequate financing for the yet-to- be-defined
project activities within a proper control environment
- 43 -



* Financial procedures in the Operational Manual to be updated in conjunction with the overall
revision of the manual
Action Plan
The following financial management system has been agreed upon between the Bank and GOJ:
Action                Responsible Person          Completion Date
Revise financial aspects of  JSIF Finance and Admin. Unit Advanced draft prepared
Operations Manual
Define chart of accounts for  JSEF - depends on definition  Completed
the project                of project activities, funding,
and cost
Reporting, including FMR   JSIF management, JSIF      Prior to Negotiations - FMR
formats, defined           finance team, Bank task team  formats to be attached to
Minutes of Negotiations
Contract internal auditor  JSIF management            March 31,2002
External audit - confirm   JSIF provides evidence to the  September 30, 2002 (auditors
arrangements               Bank that current audit     currently under contract for
contract will be extended, or if the audit of the year ended
not, carries out contracting of  3/31/02 are acceptable to the
new firm                    Bank)
Issues to be Included in Legal Agreements
The project would be expected to have standard financial management requirements in legal
agreements... These include'the requirements for annual audits, submission of FMRs to the Bank on a
quarterly basis, and thresholds for the prior review of contracting and the use of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs).
Supervision Plan
Although this project required relatively less intensive assessment by Bank staff during project
preparation, due to the nature of the project and past financial management problems in JSIF, a
normal supervision effort is planned. This would involve participation by FM staff in supervision
missions at least once per year, including annual reviews of Statements of Expenditure, and prompt
review of annual audit reports including the key findings in the auditor's Management Letter. The
timely preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) by JSIF will allow the Bank to better
focus its supervision efforts.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. The position of internal auditor was recently filled. The job description for the position.
is considered to appropriately represent the role and functions of this position, which reports directly to
the JSIF Board of Directors. In the past the person(s) in this position have often carried out line financial'
functions, and have not had a strong stature in the organization. It was agreed with JSEF that the current
internal auditor will be allowed to focus on systemic issues, while also having the role of receiving
comments from staff in a confidential manner. In this way the person will be carrying out the modem
internal audit function, thus contributing to the image and integrity of JSIF as an organization.
- 44 -



External Audit.   After some initial formatting and timing issues, the quality of audits in the
Bank-financed JSIF project was considered to be good. As noted above, the format of the audits reflect
what Bank is now encouraging - one audit for the entity with information for individual donors provided
in separate schedules. The current auditors were appointed for a one-year contract renewal in August
2002 in a meeting of the JSIF Board. These auditors are acceptable to the Bank, as they have produced
well-organized, informative audit reports and management letters in previous years. JSIF should confirm
by September 2002 the decision of the Board for the audit of the period April 2002 - March 2003, as that
will be the first audit that reflects the result of the new Bank project. By that time, audit TORs (as
modified to reflect the project needs) should be submitted to the Bank, and a formal No Objection should
be sought for the current firm (if renewed) or short list of firms (if a new procurement process will be
undertaken).
Fixed Assets. A recurring item mentioned by auditors in JSIF management letters has been the
establishment of an appropriate fixed assets register and related tracking system for JSIF assets. It
appears that this system is now largely in place, as an Excel sheet is maintained of the entity's fixed
assets - consisting of primarily computer equipment and vehicles - and assets have been labeled with a
numbering system that combines a code from the chart of accounts with the asset's serial number. This
system will be further tested by the external auditors in their audit for the year ended March 31, 2002.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The project will be implemented over a four year period, from January 2003 to January 2007.
Procurement will be completed by September 2006. The proposed allocation of the loan is shown in
Table C.
Disbursement for JSIF Subprojects will be divided into two categories. Category A, for an amount
equivalent to US$3 million corresponds to the 30% of the total allocation for JSEF subprojects. This
amount will be available for project execution upon project effectiveness. Category B, for an amount
equivalent to US$6.8 million, will be available for the execution of JSIF subprojects only if activity in
Community Subprojects has commenced.
Disbursements for Community Subprojects. As specified in their Operational Manual, for the community
subprojects, JSIF will be making payments to the communities in 3 tranches of 30%, 50%, and 20%. At
the start of the project a first payment into the project account will be made of 30 % of the project cost.
After receipt of satisfactory technical progress reports and 70% disbursement of the tranche(s) the
following tranches of 50 % and 20 % respectively can be released. Reimbursements for community
contracted subprojects will be made on evidence of disbursements from JSIF to the community project
committees (CPC). The Bank, however, will provide disbursements of the tranches only after completion
of each stage. Therefore, the initial 30% advance will be funded by counterpart funds, and then
reimbursed by the Bank once the first phase of work is complete. The same holds true of the remaining
tranches.
EBRD will not finance taxes. The standard disbursement percentage for Jamaica is 85% for foreign and
80% for local. To ensure compliance, no more than 80% of technical assistance and consulting services I
will be financed. To encourage community contracting sub-projects, 80% of disbursements will be
financed, whereas traditional JSIF contracted sub-projects will be financed at 65%.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 45 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      'Amount,in US$rnillion      FinancingP,.ereqager  .9.
1. JSIF Subprojects                     9.80                        65%
A. $3.0 mnl
B. $6.8 mln
2. Community Subprojects                 2.58                       80%
3. Technical Assistance, and             1.92                       80%
Institutional Strengthening
4. Training                              0.25                       85%
5. Goods                                 0.30                       85%
Total Project Costs                     14.85
Front-end fee        0.15                       100%
Total                                   15.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOEs will be used for procurement below prior review.
Special account:
The Special Account will have an "authorized allocation" of $US500,000, and shall be limited to the
amount of US$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$1,500,000.
- 46 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      3                           7
First Bank mission (identification)             11/04/2001                   11/04/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     08/15/2002                  08/29/2002
Negotiations                                    09/05/2002                  09/05/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/31/2003                  01/31/2003
Prepared by:
Thakoor Persaud, LCSFU
Elaine Tinsley, LCSPE
Preparation assistance:
Ophelia Haase, LCSFU
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                            -       Speciality
Thakoor Persaud                   Task Team Leader
Elaine Tinsley                    PAD Coordinator
Josephina Stubbs                  Social Sector
Marcelo Osorio                    Procurement
Daniel Boyce                      Financial Management
Rajeev Swami                      Financial Management
Yewande Awe                       Environment
Ophelia Haase                     Team Assistant
Maria Victoria Lister             Quality Assurance
Mila Freire                       Sector Manager, Urban
Luz Meza-Bartrina                 Legal
Jose Augusto Carvalho             Legal
GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA STAFF
Scarlette Gillings, Managing Director, Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF)
Faith Graham, Finance and Administrator Manager, JSIF
Bridgette Levy, Participation Coordinator, JSIF
Shelley Anne Glasgow, Projects Coordinator/Environmental Officer, JSIF
Rhian Holder, Social Officer, JSIF
Devon Rowe, Deputy Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Leila Palmer, Director of External Cooperation Management, Planning Institute of Jamaica
- 47 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Jamaica Social Investment Fund Operational Manual.
* Jamaica Social Investment Fund Project Cycle. 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Aide-Memoire for Pre-Appraisal Misson, Jan. 17-24, 2002.
* Financial Management Assesment, February 12-15, 2002.
* Implementation Completion Report - Jamaica Social Investment Fund. Social and Human
Development Unit. Draft 2001.
*   JM-NCDP Pre-Appraisal Procurement Report. March 11-15, 2002.
* Procurement Capacity Assessment for JSIF. Marcelo Osorio. July 2002.
* Procurement Post Review Supervision Mission Report, January 15-19, 2001.
C. Other
* Deloitte & Touche. Auditors' Report and Project Financial Statements on JSIF. March 31, 2001.
* Caraccioli, Arnold. Analysis of Project Cycle - Jamaican Social Investment Fund. May 2000.
* de Silva, Samatha. Community-based Contracting: A Review of Stakeholder Experince. World Bank.
January 2000.
* ITAD, Ltd. Impact Evaluation of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund. December 4, 2001.
* Rawlings, Laura et al. Letting Comununities Take the Lead - A Cross Country Evaluation of Social
Fund Performance. Social Funds 2000 Study. World Bank. September 2001
* World Bank. Fiduciary Management for Community-Driven Development Projects: A Reference
Guide. 2002
*Including electronic files
- 48 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
06-Feb-2002
Dffference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA                      Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
P067774      2002 JM- Socil Safety Net Proect                40.00     0.00                        0.00    40.00      0.00     0.00
P007490      1997 JM PUB SCTR MODERNIZ                       28.40     0.00                        0.00    14.51     13.73    12.26
P038700      1997 JM- STUDENT LOAN                           28.50     0.00                        0.00     0.37      0.37     0.00
Total:     9B.90      0.00                        0.00     54.88    14.10     12.26
JAMAICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
]IFC                                  IlFC
FY Approval            Company                             Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1995                   Jam Energy Prtnr                   14.66      0.00      0.00    32.72     14.66      0.00      0.00    32.72
2001                   Mossel                             18.00      0.00     12.00      5.78     0.00      0.00     12.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:             32.66      0.00     12.00     38.50     14.66      0.00     12.00    32.72
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                                Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:               0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
- 49 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Laini    Lower.,:
POVERTY and SOCIALAera                                                   mdd-
Jamaia. .:& Caib.  Icome  Development diamond'
2000                               -
Population, mid-year (millions)                         2.6       516'     2,046:                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas mretho6d, USs)                  2,800      3,680'    1,140'
G NI (Atilas method, US$ NI/Ions)                       6 9.     16895: ..2,327
A~verage.annual growth,:1994-00%
Population(I%)                                          086r       16V       1 0
Labor-force (.1.4                                                  23        1 3      GN                               Gross
per                     ~~~~~~prmary
Moat recent eatirnate (latest year available, 199440).                                capita                       enroflment
Poverty (%of pop)ulation belownhational poverty line) 
Urban populatioin (%~ of total pulto)56                             75        4
Ltfe'expectncy ait birth' (yeami7s)-                                          69:
Inrfant mobrtality (per 1.00 liebrh20                               30        32:
Child malnutrition (% 0 of ch   ildrn ndr )                          9        Ii    .      Access to improved water source
Access to ani imhproved water source (% of population)   71..       85        80
liteiiacy I(% of population age 15+~)                   13. .      12:       15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population):  . io        113       14 ..Jaac
Male                                        .0~ .                          1-16              Lower-middle-income group
Female  .99:                                                               114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
-.      1980     1990.      1999:     2000
Economic ratios-
GDP (US$ bifllons)                             2.7       4.2    .  72        7.4 
Grossidomestic investment/GOP                 159      27.9       25 6      268                       Trad
Exports ol goods and services/GOP             51.1      5206      420'      44 1
Gross domrestic savings/GDP                   15.9      23.8      15.6      15.6
Gro'ss national savings/GDP                   10.8      18        2.0      :20.6'
Curre'nt account balance/GOP                   -5:2     -77        -.        -46    .D    esIC                     Investment
interest paymnents/GDP                         4 6       4.68      4.5       . 25
Total debt/GOP.                                2        13        5.          7       savings
To tal debt serviceleXports                    19:6     28:4      20.2      :16.5
Present value of debt/GOP                                         5.
Present value of debt/exports                                   .106.9       -
1910-90, 1990-00      1999.     2000' 2000-04                     idbens
(a vehige annual.growlh)
GOP                         ~~~~     ~~~      ~~~~2.0  05  0,4  068  18            -   Jamalca
GODP per capita                       0.8     .00 4     -1:3       -0:1       1 1:~ iLower-middle-Income group
-Eip6rts 6fgoods and servces  . .     5.       0.3       0.2       44         42.! 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000   ~Growth of Investment and GDP(%
I(% of GDP) 
Agriculture                                    8.2       6.5       7.0        6.5
Industry                                      38.3      43.2      30.8       31.3      0
Manufacturing                                16.6     19.5       13.5      13.4           Dss    N          j4           s
Services      .53.5                                     50.4      62.2       62.2     -5t      N,.
Private consumption                           63.8      62.2      67.5       67.9    .rs I
General govemment consumption                 20.2      14.0       16.9      16.2               -   GDI       -*    GDP
Imports ofgoods and services                  51.0      56.1      52.0       55.1
1980-90  1990400       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports I(%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    0.6       1.9        1.3     -11.2     20
Industry                                       2.4      -0.5      -0.3        0.2    10
Manufacturing                                 2.7     -1.9       -0.9       0.7      0
Services                                       1.8       1.1       -0.8       3.0    .rs ]   95   wXgo,.t                 00
Private consumption                            4.3      -1.1       -2.6       2.7    -2
General government consumption                 6.2       2.7      -2.6       -2.1    -30 
Gross domestic investment                      -0.1      4.4       0.1        0.4                -  Exports   ---mports
Imports of pods and services                   9.2       1.1       -2.4       4.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
-The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-50 -



Jamaica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domest ic prices                          1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                    40
Consumer prices                            27.0    22.0       8.4      6.9    ao
Implicit GDP deflator                      18.3    23.7       7.7     10.6    20
Government finanre                                                            10
(%of GDP, indudes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                            24.7    30.4      30.4     31.0           95    96    97   99    99    00
Current budget balance                       ..     5.9      -2.4      1.1           -GDP deflator          CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -15.5     2.6      -4.3     -1.0
TRADE
(US$ mWilions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        963    1,157     1,247    1,293    4,00
Alumina                                   537     625       627      744
Sawdte                                    198     103        56       46     35000
Manufactures                               57      71        42       49
Total Imports (cif)                       1,170   1,850     2,960    3,192    2.000
Food                                      72      126       274      263     1.000
Fuel and energV                           447     404       416      585
Capital goods                             198     580       470      509       0
Exportprlcelndex(1995-100)                  52      86       113      118           94  95   9r   97   se  99   00
Importpoicelndex(1995=i00)                  52      86       113      117                 *iEsports    *Imports
Termsof trade (1995-100)                   100      100      100       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ mIllions)                           1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,369   2,247     3,367    3,250    2
Imports of goods and services             1,368'  2,340     3,928    3,973
Resource balance                             1      -93      -562    -723     0
Net income                                -229    -506       -333    -410         94
Net current transfers                       91     271       649      780     -2
Current account balance                   -138    -328       -245     -353
Financing items (net)                       58     408       123      643
Changes In net reserves                     79     -80       122     -290     4
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)                .      801     1,082
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            1.8     7.2      40.1     43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ rn/llons)                                                                 Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,913   4,674     3,913    4,279
IBRD                                     176     672       393      415                          A: 415
IDA                                        0       0         0        0              G:748            C: 60
Total debt service                         280     662       732      577
IBRD                                      18     120        99       83
IDA                                        0       0         0        0              j
ComposIton of net resource flows                                                                            D- 708
Officialgrants                            13     117        24        .
Official creditors                       280      41      -104       29
Private creditors                        -19     -46       -99      442        F: 1,263
Foreign direct investment                 28     138       524                                       E: 1,085
Portfolio equity                           0       0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                0      60         0       75      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             55      35        64       98      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       6      62        75       61      c - IMF                  G - Short-term
Net flows                                 50     -27       -11       37
Interest payments                         13      58        24       22
Net transfers                             37     -85        -35      1 5
Development Economics                                                                                         9/17/01
- 51 -



Additional Annex 1 1: JSIF Organization and Project Cycle
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Chart 1. JSIF Organization
11mi A             ------------
FRrar an           mart           qmr      |           _
llks  _  7irigalk        lifamTtc        Dep            T      E
Hmn     RrnM   qwkrGXdr                    Rve
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e             M BE      Tea   Tn f  ri r
ae   .,                           =            Sa 9xaTks  O0bs
ario                        AdTisbQ    Q SS*
"  :  a  _         .              aRx~~~~~~~~~~~~oior  9-
. .1   Wav i_                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ker
J                                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tenl |d
-52 -



Chart 2. Relationship among Units and Departments with JSIF
REDD               i
Senior researcher/ |
Manager
researcher                                      -_
poGicyanalyst             .                    COMMUNIT
administator                ffie
/     \              /     Ea~~st Team
contractinot feaf icarOfficers
Technical ofaficers SffiaceOfiseyr
Social Officers lAengiatfdvey
oiantity surveyor                 offera
f mministrative o
MIS                       cer
Manager                                                         _ 
systems engineer    
programmer=                                      PROJECIS
Finance and                 + 
Adpionistratio
n  ~                                                            Advisr
Manager|                   pcain                             _U
fc oaicer          Projects Coordinator c
financial controller sTechmcal
financial analyst      l                                     |            Social
finance clerk                                                             Environmena
contracts co-            |Admin.          Operations Manager
ordinator/special          officer
contracts of ficerl
contracting officersl
cost analysis of ficers l
legal of ficer. 
human resources                        /        pecial                    i
officer                                       Pirojects        \    L     I
of fice administrator                             Li1                    5
clerks                                         TeamiL
receptionist              _cDordinator 
office attendants    -!           t        sodal officers
drivers                                    administrators
(co-opt tech
\:prise as needed)
- 53 -



Box 1: Eligibility Criteria Forr Community Projects
.  Community must be poi,r
'* Poe muWbhon`the$JSF mMia. 
*   Pict rust esond to a 0owdev*O e       t need $suPorted by he nmajiyt ff .e
*   Proect mu$t e proposed by a commnunity Pawed geoug, --ther on its own or in. harthr lp
with NGO-, snice 'lubs, prOvace Setor (if ocIl go wment eriftes.
*                          pr1v. mV dp   a ccatMjbtkbcn to the Ial cost ofthe pro   in cash
6rtdd and Oo ipainln the faty/WWces.
Summary of Community Project Timelines
1. "d gappiain                        onigoing
22.1SZ?'a31nipg licatins '                Mn 2 weeks
Max 10 weeks (where commurty
plan weak and powety status not
known)
" 3. Realstron                     >      1N  ntore thn 10 weeks fom
applicabon (i.e. screerdng perod)
,  4. Pe *Conlp oev     nt                Min 2 weeks
Max 4 weft
IL PrOjct;Desfgnand Reztw                 Max iO weeks ( allows for
contracting desIgn xonsuttants,
!     provision of design and community
| sgn Off)
(d. PiSe  Approvat                       Min I week
Max 6 weeks
- Whee portY nde & rmmuniky              94.12 VAN"
'plan at y exst                           MMP 2;1 W_A
*    Where povety Ind% Bicd (xlnmu*tY
_fian do  e K,st                          MM __VON"
?. fet; jmdenzerwo                        mln 7 weeks
average 22 weeks (4 month
constucoon)
max 3B weeks ( 8 month
onsbtrtn)
raftfrom                  a               A aw4o 1
roject Comp!ehon                         Defects liability penod (generally 6
motst) plts 1 month
Th- s fthorn -i-i   9 ois                  Mlh (051M as  sa) 21 w
.    cmpkn   G                                 Ida (IS) 46 w_s               f
4aE         wades
9. EIuatonardSupport                      Varlab!e up to 2 years post final
- m5letion
-54 -



Chart 3: The Community Project Cycle
9.1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3ii d ebr iconwleut e q ploaion?
2.Z. Projectt oe ?                 if IF'n-'StCoey Inelex
Lusq Pomty A*. Cow-tile rr4    iy  aIbff  , thI m   to be
S-  PoWrtyKIREX                    faSilfltod wiehin t8 weeh
beall no pe*Cor poplicit*
2.3. _tIi y tuud suma?y7
-do"ab po co have pnW7,.
4s prtvcit o sdEd*rt odnotfiO 
dew        slf *Vq-,pri*it7 83 ).If Wg,    wty Planing
'-. shvnd with As                         to be fbidtd by
-co.,yInt.                          SIeor otheis within 8 wzoks
2.4. Othr fundSou            . 
4f other fuxds    linrkd Offfor                          .
10niie1Ypow conumwni*yo#
infoti4 to siwK an
7cow.I~ivph vpicirndidtioKn
form with iowtfrom S)C &
6fqr recoiwprotn
ce,enTng Comeite decks     .
nPpro6 TOR$ fe- deseign                                    . 
-JI  .ovunt vsto-      t ei
sacoof betdesti&ps                          =
EIrtm, _ _i  ~ Eqrt, collect teh specs.
#t'rctde'sign suns                                    t:n coi  reetm
-    t Scening 56 5inC. ti 55-
Wkecet TOR, inckding               5wr1gc           1 
nNwatwss. avtl risk *
per7iassion. fj 
*iy i& A pWinity dig                                  ROOO i f unfeasibk 4bd 2it~ e
of M^pinent                         oppl~~~~~~"kaicdtn by verifiabtj potr-
-55 -



6. Project Approval                                       7     roject inpleme    on
-small projects approved by                                -contracts for services/
Management Review Committee                                procurement of goods (community
-big projects channeled through                            contracts/3Q/NCB for
Management Review, Board                                   construction rotational use of
Projects Committee and Board                               pre-qual, training consultants)
-Project information meeting
with community
-Contract signing ceremony
-First site meeting
-monitor Supervisors for
adherence to TOR
-SDC deliver maintenance training
9. Evaluation and support for                                      C
sustained use, operations and                           8. Project Completfon
maintenance-dcrtoofpctclomein
mainteconduct CBO assessment                            -monitor defects liability period
-SDC conduct CBO assessment                             -SDCcompleteall maintenance
community maintenonce committee                         training & supports community role
-communityaiitesopee selfi                              during defects liability period
-communities complete self                              -Final Completion Meeting in
evaluation questionnaires (SEQ) 6                          Com   pletio Meeting in
months after final completion                           Community, identification of actions
months~~   ~ c.te fia co.peto                     to be taken before completion will
-JSIF makes 2 follow up visits to                       t
monitor use, operations &                ~~be accepted
monitor use, operetions                                 -Community sign off on completion
mamntenance
-Periodic Impact Evaluation                             -Evaluation of project implementors
-formal transfer learning into action                   with community input
session by JSIF/SDC annually                            -Handing Over and Cradution
- active promotion of best practices                    ceremony
externally
-56-



Additional Annex 12: JSIF Environmental Guidelines
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
Jamaica Social Investment Fund Environmental Guidelines
1.0     Overview
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund Environmental Guidelines are designed to ensure that the Guiding
prindple of Environmental Soundness of all JSIF infrastructure projects in adhered to and these
guidelines form an annex to the JSIF Operabons Manual. This principle states that:
"Projects funded by JSIF must conform with the Govemment of Jamaica's Environmental Regulations and
have minimum negative impact on the natural and cultural environmenr ( JSIF Operations Manual July
2002, Chapter 2, Guiding Principles")
The guidelines also call for an integrated approach to project design and implementation, where the
analysis of environmental issues Is not an "add-on" activity, but an integral part of the technical
soundness of the project. The guidelines present over-riding environmental principles and the regulations
that project must adhere to as general guidelines as well as spedflc guidelines for the design and
implementation of specific project types, according to each stage of the JSIF project cycle.
As these guidelines form part of operational procedures, they also assume the other guiding principles of
community participation and consultation in the process, technical soundness, transfer of leaming,
sustainable development focus, poverty eradication and cost-effectiveness.
These guidelines have been developed for use by the Technical Officers involved in the design and
implementation of JSIF Sub-Projects and form part of the technical analysis processes required for
successful implementation of JSIF Interventions.
1.1     A. JSIF Project Menu
These guidelines apply to the full list of infrastructure project types accommodated under the JSIF
Sub-project menu as detailed in Chapter 4, Box 3 of the Operations Manual, which cover the construction,
rehabilitation and equipping of:
Basic schools, primary schools and all age schools
*       Small roads in agricultural areas, bridge approaches, small bridges, foot bridges, retaining walls,
drains
*       Urban access roads
Gullies
*       Small scale water schemes (<2000 people)
*       Ministry of Health approved Health Centres (Types 1 and 2)
[ Type 1 and 2 Health Centres provide services but do not admit patients, persons with illnesses requiring admission are sent to
regional hospitals. The services offered are as follows:
Type 1 - Serves 2,000 - 4,000 people.
Provides: 1. Matemal and child helath services (antenatal. postnatal, child health, immunization, nutrition monitoring and support)2.
Health promotion/educatoin and community participation
Type 2 - As in Type 1 plus
1. Health promotion and illness prevention (veterinary public health and foold, hygiene/food handlers clinics, water quality, solid
liquid and excreta disposal)
2. Surveillance and Disease Control (specific communicatble diseases e.g. TB and Hansens, malaria and childhood diarrhoeal
disease, STDs, other communicable diseases, rheumatic fever prophyfaxis)
3. Curative Services (common medical conditions, STDs, acutre and chronic diseases
4. Dental services (visiting)
Source: Ministry of Health
]
- 57 -



.      Community Resource Centres
*      Skills Training Centres and Business Incubators
*      Fadlities for Community Tourism development
*      Play and recreation areas in inner-cities
*      Small sports facilities
*      Offices/meeting facilities/income generation facilities for inner-dty CBOs
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund does not Implement housing projects or projects
that involve the relocation of individuals or communities.
B. Precautionary measure in project selection
All JSIF infrastructure sub-projects will comply with donor requirements environmental management for
projects assigned. As such:
(i) any World Bank-financed sub-projects that will result in conversion of
natural habitats will be evaluated to ensure compliance with the World Bank's
Natural Habitats Operational Policy 4.04.
(ii) for any World Bank-financed sub-projects that procure pesticides or
result in the increased use of pesticides, an appropriate Pesticides Management
Plan will be developed, as required by the World Bank's Pest Management
Operational Policy 4.09, which would include non-chemical measures for pest
management and guidelines for proper selection, application, storage, handling,
transport, and disposal of pesticides.
(iii) sub-projects which belong to the World Bank's environmental category 'A', according to the World
Bank's Operational Policy 4.01, will be included in a 'negative list' of
sub-projects which will not be eligbible for financing by the World Bank. This negative list applicable will
include such sub-projects as:
*      Construction of any new roads.
*      Major upgrading or realignment of roads ("major" means changing the road category, such as
from seasonal to all-weather or secondary to primary; adding new lanes; or changing road surface)
*      Improvement and rehabilitation of any existing roads within 5 kilometers of any protected areas or
any other areas of natural forest
*      Dam construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or strengthening.
*      Irrigation works with incremental command areas exceeding 200 hectares
*      Flood protection, sewage treatment, agricultural drainage, or other works which could adversely
affect wetlands or natural waterways, either through pollution or hydrological changes.
*      Use of pesticides on the World Health Organization's Hazardous Pesticides List which are not
recommended.
*      Aquaculture using non-native species in natural water bodies.
*      Works which would adversely affect cultural property, including archaeological and historical sites
*      Activities that negatively affect natural protected areas recognized by federal, state or municipal
governments (or buffer zones thereof)
*      Land reclamation such as drainage of wetlands or filling of water bodies to create land.
*      Purchase or lease of land which has unclear titles
*      Land clearance and leveling (when affecting critical natural habitats and natural land contours,
natural habitats for this purpose being those water or land areas where most of the original plant and
animal species are still present).
*      Hazardous waste management and disposal as well as manufacture, transport and use of
hazardous, and/or toxic materials (except small amounts of solvents, degreasing materials, paints, fuels,
and the like used during construction).
1.2   7Te National Legal and Institutional context - Environmental Management in Jamaica
- 58 -



"The Ministry of Land and the Environment is the Ministry with the executive mandate to govem
Jamaica's natural environment. The most recent initiative of the govemment was recognition that urban
and rural planning must be done within the context of the wider thrust of environmental management,
and to this end government has established the National Environment and Planning Agency. This new
agency represents an amalgamation of the Natural Resources Conservation Authority which has a
statutory mandate for the conservation, protection and proper management of the natural resources of
Jamaica; the Town and Country Planning Authority which has the statutory mandate to ensure the orderly
planning of Jamaica and the Land Development and Utilization Commission with a statutory mandate to
ensure that prime agricultural lands are kept in agricultural production in the interests of inter alia food
security and self sustainability'. 'Jamaica's Commitment To The Conservabon And Management Of
Natural Resources Ten Years in Retrospect'; Unpublished Paper, National Environmental and Planning
Agency; Kingston, Jamaica
The legislation relevant to projects of the Jamaica Social Investment Fund are:
*     The Natural Resource Conservation Authority Act
*     The Public Health Act
*      The Clean Air Act
*     The National Heritage Trust Act
*     The Town and Country Planning Act
*     The Local Improvements act
*     The Land Development and Utilisation Act
*     The Water Resources Authority Act
There are also a number of policies being developed which will have application in JSIF
interventions. These indude:
*      Revision of the Jamaica National Environmental Action Plan
*     The Draft National Environmental Policy
*      Towards a National Policy and Strategy on Environmental Management Systems
*      The National Sustainable Development Plan
An Environmental Impact Assessment process has been put in place by NEPA with clear guidelines on
implementing EIAs under the NRCA Act. The Act requires an environmental impact assessment of
developments with in prescribed areas.
Under diredives from the National Policy level, JSIF sub-projects will require permits under the Permit
and Ucence System as follows:
Building permission to expand buildings
License to discharge trade effluent and sewage
Permits for Eco-tourism projects
Permits for Pipelines and conveyers
Permits for Solid Waste Treatment and disposal facilities
1.3   JSIF and Environmental Management
Environmental management within the JSIF falls under the purview of the Operations Department as part
of the Project Development and Implementation process, under the Policy direcions approved by the
Board of Directors.
Technical Officers within the Operations Department, under the supervision of the Operations Manager
- 59 -



and under the guidance of the Environmental Advisor are therefore responsible for ensuring the
maintenance of environmental standards throughout the Project Cyde, based on these guidelines.
1.4    The Environmental Impact of ISIF projects
Positive
There are a number of positive impacts of JSIF sub-projects to physical environmental in the communities
in which they are situated. In keeping with principles of sustainable development and holistic planning
where the environment is defined as the physical, biological, social and economic factors of life, the
projects will have the effect of:
i.     Eliminating environmental safety hazards from deteriorating structures
ii.   Improving environmental health through water, sanitation and health infrastructure
iii.   The creation of temporary employment opportunities and long-term Income generation
iv.    The provision of social services that were previously not available
v.     Improved learning environments and access to education and non-formal training
vi.    Improved living conditions In poor communities
Negative
Most of the negative impacts assodated with Sub-projects are likely to occur during construction and
rehabilitative works on roads, buildings, drainage, water and sanitation projects and where designs are
inadequate. These tend to be minor and are easily identified and mitigated and determination of these
potential impact forms and integral part of the analysis of the technical feasibility of the projects. In
keeping with the principles of technical and environmental soundness however, adequate technical
review, through peer review and using technical advisors, must take place to ensure adequacy of designs.
Negative impacts will also occur during operation particularly with relation to disposal of solid and sewage
waste, where there is improper operational and maintenance procedures in place. These issues must
also be factored into the technical analysis of the projects at the design phase.
Even with adequate planning and design, there are risks of impacts during implementation where
guidelines are not followed at a supervisory level. All contracts and Terms of Reference for formulators,
supervisors and contractors must therefore dearly show deliverables with the relation to implementation
of mandated environmental procedures. Potential impacts indude:
i.     Unnecessary removal of vegetation cover
ii.    Creation of soil slippage and soil erosion conditions from excavation and inappropriate placing of
excavated matter on hillslopes
iii.   Blockage of drains from construction waste and excavated materials
iv.    Water contamination during construction on all project types or during operation of inadequate
sewage faciliffes
v.     Excessive run-off where drainage on roads and off buildings is inadequate.
vi.    Inappropriate disposal of solid waste
vii.   Interruption of vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow or access to amenities.
2.0    General Guidelines for Infrastructure Projects
I. Proiect Desian
1.     The project must be designed to minimize tree taking and damaging. When the project will
result in dearing of land or cutting trees, at least the same number of trees must be replanted on or near
- 60 -



the facility.
2.     Site Selection
The land on which a building is to be located must comply with the zoning requirements of the
National Environmental Planning Agency and relevant planning legislation. It must also be well
drained, aesthetically landscaped and secure, especially if very small children are involved. All
relevant permits and no objections from relevant agendes must be obtained.
(i)    In rehabilitation projects, when an existing building does not comply with the
guideline above. Rehabilitation must, whenever possible include drainage,
security and landscape of the area as well as the building itself and testing for
hazardous materials such as asbestos and lead;
(ii)   In rehabilitation projects, when an existing building is located on unsuitable land,
the JSIF shall not approve the project. The following are considered to be
unsuitable lands:
(a)    land resulted from flll up with any refuse matter that is contaminated by human or animal excreta
or any other hazardous material;
(b)    wetlands and flood plains;
(c)    Protected Areas where approval has not been obtained
(d)    steep (more than 30% declivity) and unstable slopes susceptible to slippage.
3.     Any road rehabilitation project must comply with the minimum technical standards of the relevant
Parish authority to which the road will be handed over to and required no objections obtained.
4.     In rehabilitation/expansion or construction projects the technical and flnancial feasibility of using
traditional architecture and simple technologies and materials must be assessed, and simple, traditional
style and materials adopted when suitable. A comparative assessment of environmentally friendly
materials and techniques should also be adopted where suitable, based on comparisons of techniques
and long-term cost-benefit analysis. This applies to any building, road, water and sanitation project.
5.     All buildings should be well designed to provide security and at the same time to be attractive
and well ventilated and make best use of natural lighting.
6.     Adequate space and fadlities for recreation inside and outside of a school must be designed
accordingly and whenever possible, budget for its construction must be ensured in the project.
7.     Sanitary Systems
Appropriate sanitation systems must be designed and installed; proper disposal systems must be
functioning: it must also be determined if there is a need to provide training in environmental
awareness to users Awareness by users of sanitary systems is required whenever new systems are
installed which are different from the ones they are used to. This is particularly needed when flushing
toilets are introduced to new users. In many cases it has been reported that flush toilets were used to grow
plants because new users did not get accustomed to using them.
(i)    Sanitary facilities must be suitable to the local and ground conditions.
(ii)   Sanitary facilities must be provided in sufficient number
(iii)            In order to avoid surface water contamination, when public facilities for
- 61 -



sewage treatment are not provided, effluent should not be discharged into surface waters
without adequate treatnent: to avoid ground water contamination, effluent must be
treated in a septic tank (minimum efficiency of 70% reduction of BOD); the absorption tank
is not efficient in preventing groundwater contamination.
(iv)   The site where the sanitary facility is to be installed must have a low water table.
(v)    If sanitary facilities use alternative technologies such as Ventilated Improved Pits
(VIP) latrines and others, it must be located at least 15 meters from existing
buildings and houses, in the opposite direction of the prevailing winds, to prevent
odours and undesirable impacts.
(vi)   When an external latrine vent pipe exists, it must be located at the sunny side of the latrine and
painted black, to produce an updraft, due to the heating of the air inside the vent: an extemal cover at
the top of the vent pipe will prevent flies and mosquitoes from coming out the vent and therefore will
reduce the risk of contamination.
(vii)  All required approval and permits must be obtained and the relevant agencies (NWC, NEPA etc)
informed and involved in the development of the project
8.     Adequate water supply must be provided:
(i)    Adequate structures for water storage must be provided.
(ii)   Rainwater can be collected, stored and used for sanitary facilities.
(iii)  The storage structure must be located (about 25 meters) from, the absorption tank, septic tank
or other similar fadlity, and upstream the direction of the water table flow If the storage facility is
underground it can be contaminated by groundwater contaminated with effluent or by effluent directly, in case an
absorption tank is located nearby.
9.     Haard Mitiaation
(i)    Fire Control: Safety precautions against fire must be assessed, implemented, documented and
functional at all times and water supply for fire hoses must be secured. Note that:
(a)    Evacuation and fire extinguishing procedures must be approved by the fire department or a
similar institution
(b)    Fire disaster preparedness should be addressed in organisational strengthening exercises and in
maintenance training
(ii)   Natural disaster mitigation: The design of all infrastructure projects must accommodate the
potential occurrence of a natural disaster and as such include the necessary mitigation measures to
ensure minimum damage from disaster events. This includes but not exclusive to:
(a)    Earthquake mitigation: Designs must uphold the minimum building standards recommended for
Jamaica as indicated by the Building Code.
(b)    Storm mitigation: This includes heavy rain, storm surges, tropical storms, hurricanes mitigation
measures for strong winds and high levels of precipitation and runoff. Road and building designs must
therefore have adequate drainage measures and buildings and other structures must maintain the
minimum standards under the Building Code for wind resistance.
(iii)  Safety: Care must be taken to ensure that designs promote a safe work site and safe operation
- 62 -



of the facility. The following must be considered:
(a)    Materials: No toxic paints or construcion materials (e.g., lead-based paints, amianthus,
asbestos) may be used within the buildings or on water supply projects
(b)    Site Safety: Designs must factor in terrain and other potential areas of danger that my lead to
an unsafe work site. Where there is potential for danger on a site, cautions and recommendations for
safe implementation must be outlined.
II.    Constructon
10.    Dust and noise during construction works should be minimised:
(i)   In residential areas, if works are conducted in the dry season, the contractor must water the
exposed area and construction materials either stored or transported must be covered to avoid particulate
matter to be blown by the wind
(ii)   Communities must be given adequate notice of intended construcion and potential for dust and
blockage of access to roads or community facilities during construction
(iii)  When sand is used to fill in land or to level a site it must be capped with clay turf, whenever
possible. If this solution Is not viable, spraying the area with water can minimize dust blown by the wind.
(iv)   Construction work must be limited to daylight hours, from approximately 6:00 am to 8:00 pm, or
according to local or specific regulations.
(v)    Blasting to break up rocks will be conducted during daylight and residents will be advised when
blasting will occur. The local regulatory authority should certify the person conducting this activity.
11.    Adequate measures for preventing siltation of watercourses by run-off must be implemented,
such as silt screens and straw devices, among others.
12.    Safety measures must be taken to prevent accidents involving workers and members of the
community.
13.    Clearing of trees and other vegetation must be minimal
14.    All waste must be disposed of in environmentally sound ways and at dumpsites approved by the
relevant Parks and Markets Authority.
15.    All sewage disposal facilities are required to be adequate and fully functional and the end of
construcion
16.    Penalties are to be instituted for breach of guidelines mandated by JSIF
III.   ODeration and Maintenance
13.    Sanitary Facilities:
(i)    Environmental awareness and maintenance training to users will be provided on all sanitation
projects.
(ii)   Latrine pits, absorption tanks or septic tanks must be cleaned regularly, according to JSIF's
Operation and Maintenance Manual for infrastructure project. Where technologies such as biodigesters or
- 63 -



composting toilets are being used, specific training must take place to ensure ongoing functioning of
these systems.
14.    Solid Waste Manaaement:
(l)    Solid waste will be collected and disposed of in an appropriate manner and on a regular basis,
according to the JSIF's Operation and Maintenance Manual for infrastructure projects.
(ii)   Wastes must be. stored in a covered garbage storage unit, designed in accordance to current
NEPA guidelines and protected from the access by animals.
(iii)        When appropriate landfill is not provided by the local government or the sponsor
community, the JSIF will develop a waste management manual provide the sponsor community with
(which will become part of the Operation and Maintenance Manual). This manual will indude
self-sustained waste management plans that indudes alternative solutions for adequate disposal of
organic wastes and garbage, and potential uses for recyded materials, waste collection campaigns and
other environmental awareness activities to be developed with the students and the community Burming or,
covering with earth are common practice for waste disposal in rural areas. The appropriate altemative will be provided in the JSIF
Operation & Maintenance Manual..
15.    Buildings and other ihysical structures:
(i)    Maintenance training must be done with users to ensure care of the structure and avoidance of
physical danger due to deterioration or lack of maintenance, particularly in the case of schools,
community centres, water supplies and small bridges.
3.0    Specific Guidelines by Project Sub-type
All Project Sub-types assume the General Guidelines in addition to the type-spedfic guidelines listed
below and the procedure required during each stage of the Project Cyde as outlined in Section 4.0.
1.     Roads
Design Phase
1.     Roads must be designed and constructed so that they do not impede the free flow of intervening
water ways:
(i)    At design phase, the grade of road must be established above the level of the existing
drains
(ii)  In case the existing road crosses a waterway, the design for rehabilitation must indude
culverts to allow the free flow of water.  Size of culverts must be designed to
accommodate a 30-year storm event.
2.     Capped and uncapped roads must be designed and constructed so that water does not stand
over long periods either on the road (in surface depressions) or at the sides or base.
(i)   In case the size of the existing drains are not sufficient to ensure free water flow
of a 30 year storm event, their enlargement must be induded in the
rehabilitation design;
(ii)  If existing drains are blocked byvegetation or silt, dearing must be included In
the rehabilitation project.
-64-



3.     Bridges design must include re-vegetation of shoulders using native vegetation to reduce erosion.
4.     The shoulder declivity must be designed according to the soil characteristics.
Construction Phase
5.     Construcion works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and
implemented using JSIF's Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and monitoring and must
ensure the following:
(i)    Defined grades must be correcly set in place
(ii)   No depressions must be left in the surface of the road
(iii)  Drains must be unblocked and correctly sized, as in the project design.
6.    Erosion control measures must be implemented accordingly to project design:
(i)    Exposed road shoulders must be vegetated early with native species, appropriate
to the site to reduce the impact of raindrop erosion
(ii)   Erosion (silt/sediment) barriers must be in place and functional throughout
construction.
7.   There must be a satisfactory system of regular collecion and disposal of waste and garbage;
during construction works the contractor must ensure that:
(i)    Materials are stored in such a way that will not be carried by rains and/or run-off
waters into the drains
(ii)   Garbage and construction wastes are collected and disposed in appropriate sites
in a way that ensure that they will not be carried into the drains or discharged
into wetlands or in sensitive vegetation communities;
(iii)  Measures are implemented to avoid spills, of lubricants, fuels and other
chemicals, and in the event of an accidental spill, clean up is clone immediately
(iv)   After construction works are conduded the contractor must clear the area from
all equipment, machines and wastes (liquids or solid)
(v)    Whenever the sponsoring community does not provide an adequate
site for waste disposal, the contractor shall follow the guidelines JSIF' will
develop for waste disposal
Operation and Maintenance
8.     Operations and Maintenance should follow JSIF's Operational and Maintenance Manual for
Infrastructure Projects. Particular attention needs to be paid to:
i.     Erosion control
ii.    Drainage
iii.   Clearing and mitigating against land-slippage (within the capabilities of the community e.g. minor
retaining walls, major works are the responsibility of the relevant authority.
- 65 -



2.    Infirmaries. Health Centres and Similar Facilities
Project Design
1.     Ministry of Health Standards for Design of Type 1 and 2 Health Centres must be applied to all
JSIF Health Centre projects
2.     Optimum sanitation must be maintained at all times. Cleanliness of utensils and equipment is
paramount:
(i)    Water supply fadlities must include running water. When public water supply is
not available on site, the project must consider, whenever' technical and
economically feasible, drilling a well or other alternative to provide potable water
to the centre, induding storage of rain water and roof drain water.
(ii)   When public water supply is not available and no other altemative is technically
and economically feasible, the JSIF must consider not finandng the project.
(iii)  Medical wastes must be disposed though approved Ministry of Health fadlities or
techniques.
Construction Phase
3.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and
implemented using JSIF's Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and Monitoring.
Opemtion and Maintenance
4.     Operations and Maintenance should follow JSIFs Operational and Maintenance Manual for
Infrastructure Projects. Particular attention needs to be paid to:
i.     Maintenance of ventilation i.e. functioning secure windows
ii.    Pest control - particularly In bathrooms and kitchen/dining area.
iii.   Landscaping - ensuring safe, aesthetically pleasing surroundings
iv.    Disaster preparedness - for hurricanes, flooding and fire
v.     Waste disposal - safe disposal of medical and other wastes
3.     Sanitary Facilities (latrines)
Site Selection and Project Design
1.     Pit latrines should be avoided due to (i) odour and insect (flies and mosquitoes) problems; (ii)
risks of contamination by pathogens (virus, protozoa and helminths) transmitted by excreta; (iii) risk of
small children falling into pits; (iv) where the water table is high
2.     Pit latrines with adequately designed septic tanks and absorption pits are recommended when
there is (i) inadequate water supply to support water dosets (ii) where soil absorption rates ensure
proper and safe diffusion of waste water (ii) where there is no potential for contamination of ground
water supplies.
- 66 -



3.     Other alternative sanitation technologies, such as ventilated improved latrines (VIP latrines),
should be considered appropriate only when flushing toilets are not technically and economically feasible.
4.     The sanitary fadlity must be installed in a site that (i) has a low water table (ii) is located down
stream any water body source: (iii) is located at least 100 meters form any water body.
Construction Phase
5.     Construction works must comply with the JSIFs General Environmental Guidelines and JSIF's
Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and monitoring.
Operation and Maintenance
6.     Operation & maintenance must comply with the General guidelines presented as well as with
JSIFs Manual for Operation and Maintenance of Infrastructure Projects.
4.     Sanitary Facilities (community showers)
Site selection andproject design
1.     Before the sanitary fadlity is designed it must be ensured that the site where it is to be installed
is located downstream any water body source.
2.     Community showers must be located at least 15 meters from existing buildings and houses.
3.     The community shower must be installed inside a well-ventilated and well-drained super
structure.
4.     The area surrounding the superstructure must be adequately landscaped, secure and well
drained.
5.     The size and number of showers must comply with JSIFs design guidelines
Constucion Phase
6.     Construction works must comply with the JSIF's General Environmental Guidelines and JSIFs
Environmental Handbook for Construction supervision and Monitoring.
Operation and Maintenance
7.     Operations and Maintenance should follow JSIF's Operational and Maintenance Manual for
Infrastructure Projects. Particular attention needs to be paid to:
a.     Maintenance of plumbing and water supply
b.     Cleanliness of fadlity
c.     Maintenance of security measures
5.     Drainage
- 67 -



Project Design
1.    Project design must follow the general guidelines as well as the specified procedures outlines for
appraisal of projects in Section 4.0.
Construction Phase
2.     Construction works must comply with the JSIFs General Environmental Guidelines and JSIFs
Environmental Handbook for Construction Supervision and Monitoring.
3.     Vegetation and silt materials recovered from dredging must be securely, disposed, in order to
avoid being brought back to canals and drains, by runoff.and rains.
4.     During dredging, unauthorised persons must be prevented from approaching working areas by
the installation of protecting devices, in order to avoid or minimise risks of accidents involving the
community.
6.     Water Proiects
1.    It must be verified that requirements for protecting the water source from contamination are
adopted.
2.     The delivery of safe potable water must be ensured: materials used in the pipeline must
ensure that no leaks will threaten the delivery of safe potable water.
a.     Site selection and protect design
3.     Crater source must be located upstream any possible source of crater pollution and protected
from contamination by a superstructure.
4.     Project Application must require physical and bacteriological analysis of the water from the water
source, which is intended to be used.
5.    In case the water is not adequate for human consumption, the JSIF must consider not finandng
the project.
b.     Construction phase
Excavation works must be made whenever possible during the dry season, to avoid erosion and siltation
of drainage canals or other water bodies in the area.
7.     During construction works, unauthorised persons must be prevented from approaching working
areas by the installation of protecting devices, in order to avoid or minimize risks of acddents
involving the community.
c. Operation and Maintenance
9.     All infra and superstructure must be permanently maintained in adequate operating condiffons.
9.     Water source and water pipes must be continuously monitored to ensure that no contamination
has occurred.
-68 -



7.     Apro-Drocessina Facilities
1. Waste products must not be deposited In watercourses, wetlands or in sensitive  vegetation
communities.
2.     Waste Crater and processing effluent must be treated to reduce contaminants and not be
discharged directly to water bodies, wetlands, or in sensitive vegetation communities.
- 69 -



4.0    Environmental monitoring and the JSIF Project Cycle
Addressing environmental issues will form an integral part of the technical analysis of every JSIF
infrastructure project throughout the project cycle. The following is a breakdown of the environmental
review inputs in the project cycle, and the relevant environmental appraisal procedures.
figure 1: Diagram of Environmental Innut:s in the JSIF Community Proiect CvciF
. ;,nera      '. __. .
applic~atioDs -apiain
El>                                       3X G < g-. registratn;
1.1 Active pr1 2.1 Preliinaffraty                3                     o
motion to Quartile '     2.2 Povprty Status?                 or rejection
4                        2eqiivale  '2.3 Conmnunity Planned
>. , , < ~~~~~~~~Priorityll?a i 
6.                   5. ~~~~~~Project design anid mVO         Poet ocp
Project                  Input Into Project Design ,            4 Project Concept.,.
ER, EA or EtA conducted &           Field visit (to include"
'Board Submissio            mltigation measures                 environniental
documernt "                 identlfied baseW on results                    r i  spar of
Environmental             4. Included In, Design            tecnia asis
consultants TOR                     ieA   ril analysis
/Prqj,Ct o conceptbref
Projec implementaon              8 Project Con" ipletion         9. Post-ProJet Activities
Conumcung.                                                       Eauto      n    upr o
Environmental mitigation                  .                     Sus   ed   vise,  popert fbr
incorporated in contracts .                                                    oe , o a  rstainenance
Sf* SSiS'rOpt: ' ' ' 9 K w | Mo  Aoui and lg,ntionpa,nsd                 -m, htnanc.
Supervision:                         -i iijao~ln
Mlonitering or and reporting on                                   "Post-project teichnicali
mitigation plans                                                        tvlation r
- 70 -



Project Concept Development
During the project concept development field visit, project officers are to determine the type of
environmental appraisal necessary for each project. This determination is to be done using the
generalized screening environmental checklist (Annex 1) as part of the technical evaluation of the project.
The checidist Indicates which one of four possible environmental approaches is to be taken for each
project. These possible approaches are:
No further environmental appraisal.
An Environmental Review (ER).
*      An Environmental Assessment (EA).
*      An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
The chosen approach for each project will then be undertaken durng the appraisal of the project. The
dedsion on an approach at the screening level will be guided by:
*      The proximity to and potential impact on a natural habitat (particularly that of animals of
importance) a Protected Area or water course
*      Deterrnination of the height of the water table for potential effect on all types of construction and
on design and operation of sewage systems.
*      Potential for increased run-off, soil erosion, stream siltation and excessive dust at various stages
of the project
*      General analysis of the terrain induding slope-angle, rock and soil type and slope stability,
vegetation cover
*      General analysis of localized climatic conditions
*      Available methods of solid and liquid waste
*      Vulnerability of the site to natural disasters
Project Design
Each of the possible environmental appraisal procedures is described below.
An Environmental Review (ER)
This is a basic environmental assessment, to be conducted using a generic review form applicable to all
types of projects requiring an ER, this can be done during the project concept development field visit.
The completed form will indicate the possible negative environmental impacts of the project, and will
prescribe the necessary mitigation measures to be employed.  Field officers are to develop the
appropriate mitigation measures with the help of the generalized list of mitigation measures provided on
returning to the office. All completed ER forms with their proposed mitigation measures are to be
reviewed and approved by the Environmental Advisor and place on the project file. An ER is not meant to
be a lengthy or time-onsuming process, and is to be integrated into sodal and technical appraisal
procedures.
An Environmental Assessment (EA)
This is a more detailed environmental review, and takes the format of a semi-structured report. The EA
is project type-specific, and is to be conducted using the EA form. The completed report gives a very brief
overview of the project and describes the physical, biological and socio-economic environments related to
the project. The EA form itemizes the activities assodated with the project, their possible impacts and
their appropriate mitigation measures. The information needed to formulate the necessary mitigation
measure is to be obtained from the corresponding action-impact-mitigation form. All completed EA forms
with their proposed mitigation measures are to be reviewed and approved by the Environmental Advisor.
A field visit is required for an EA, and the completion of an EA form requires special time allocation.
- 71 -



Information outputs from the EA are to be provided to the Design Consultant for reference, as an
appendix to the Terms of Reference.
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
This Is a detailed and comprehensive process that usually requires the efforts of a multi-disciplinary team
for an explicit analysis. As such, the conducting of an EIA will require the contracting of consultants
under a specific Terms of Reference (Annex X - TOR outline). The output of an EIA is to be a document
that spedfies all the possible environmental implications of the project, and provides detailed mitigation
measures. The mitigation measure recommended are to form part of the scope of work of the Design
consultants Terms of Reference and a copy of the EIA report will be provided to the Design consultant for
reference.
Approval
Approval of a project by the Board of Directors should only take place when the environmental appraisal
process is complete. The members of the Board should have available to them all information and
options required for them to approve a project.
Contacting
In order to maintain the integrity of the environmental considerations given prior to contracting, the
proposed mitigation measures should be provided by the technical officer and included within ciauses of
the contracting documents of the supervisors and contractors. Also to be induded within the contracting
document are penalties for non-ompliance to mitigation measures by contractors and/or supervising
consultants. As the mitigation measures for each project will vary, the wording' within contracts will be
specific to each project, and are to be developed by the Environmental Advisor with the aid of the legal
advisor.
Supervision
During the implementation stage of the project JSIF officers are to consider the environmental mitigation
measures prescribed during appraisal and contracting and monitor the supervisor's adherence ensuring
implementation of these measures. Project specific checklists (provided in the JSIF Environmental
Handbook for Supervision and Monitoring of Construction) that outline the mitigation measures are to be
used by the officers to monitor and ensure that the prescribed mitigation measures are being enforced.
Evaluation
In order to assess the effectiveness of the overall environmental approach of the project cycle, post
project evaluation also needs to be conducted. Projects that have undergone ER and EA can be selected
at random, and evaluated by a site inspection using a cheddist of the environmental objectives of the
project. A site visit and evaluation are required for all projects that have undergone an EIA.
-72-



Annexes
N.B. These Checklists are to be integrated into the general technical evaluation checklists used by
Officers and form part of the Field Officers Hand-book.
-73-



Annex I: Generalized Screening Environmental Checklist
Project Type                       ecommended Environmental
A_ppraisal (tick)
NoneEREAEIA
Roads
New Rural Roads
ural Road Rehabilitation
rinking Water/Water Supply
ess than 100 persons           X_X
ore than 100 persons
S hools__                             _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _   _ _
ehabilitation
Health Centres
ehabilitation
Community Centre/Homes for
children & aged
New
ehabilitation
atrnes/Sanitay Conveniences g
ess than 100 people
ore than 100 people
Agro-processing/income generaton
Rehabilitation
None - No further environmental action necessary
ER     - An Environmental Review required
EA     - An Environmental Assessment required
EIA    - An Environmental Impact Assessment required
Environmental Consideration                        Response
YesNo
Is the location
*      Prone to natural hazards?
*      Cose to river/coastal waters?
.      A wetland, forest reserve or National Park?
*      Of Archaeological or historical importance?
An EA is required once there is a YES response to any question above.
- 74 -



Annex II: Environmental Review (ER) Checklist
Type of Expected Impact      Description of Possible      Proposed Mitigation
Impact                     Measure
Would this project directly  Y/N
result In the following?
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
Increased soil erosion
Increased sediment load into
receiving waters
Ukely contamination of surface
or subsurface waters
Excessive dust or noise during
construction
BIOLOGICAL
ENVIRONMENT
Removal or disturbance of
natural vegetation              .
Disruption or disturbance of
any animals
SOCI4L ENVIRONMENT
Degradation or disturbance of
an historical or cultural site
OTHER
- 75 -



Annex III: Common Environmental Impacts and thei
Aporopriate Mitigation Measures
IMPACT                                    MITIGATION MEASURES
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
-   soils
.      Erosion of soil downslope from road.  Protection of soil surfaces by
*      Landslides, landslips or degradation  *  Revegetation of area
.     Use of plastic fencing for stabilisation
.     Construction only during the dry season
*      Waterlogging of soil               *     Providing adequate drainage - proper
sized drains/culverts
Water
.      Increased sediment/runoff into     .     Providing adequate drainage away from
streams, rivers, ocean                    major water bodies
.     Proper disposal of hazardous materials
*     Store construction materials away from
water resources
.      Contamination of water resources         Apply a minimal distance between water
(faecal contamination)                     urce & livestock/human settlements.
Ensure appropriate wastewater treatment
Ensure proper maintenance of latrines.
Develop and implement monitoring of
nitary facilities and wastewater treatment
ystems.
.__ _ __   Construct in area with low water table
*      Clogging of canals by weeds              Control of agro-chemical use
Proper design of canals
Develop water monitoring programme
Air Quality
.      Dust during construction                 Dust control using wetting of construction
reas with water
*      Acoustic disturbance               *     Restrict construction to certain hours
.     Locate permanent machinery away from
residences and business places
*      Odor problems                            Ensure appropriate disposal of waste
.roducts and effluent
- 76 -



ADDendix III (cont'd): Common Environmental Imoacts and their
ADprORriate Mitication Measures
IMPACT                                     MITIGATION MEASURES
BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Natural Habitats
*      Disturbance of natural              *    Consideration of alternative sites
habitats/environmentally sensitive areas
Flora & Fauna -
*      Loss or degradation of vegetaton or      Consider alternate site
animal life                                     Replant trees and appropriate vegetation
.__ _ __   Mark and protect important trees
OTHER
*      Improper disposal of construction  *     Determine an approved site for disposal
waste - health risk, eyesore               *     Provide garbage receptades
*      Sourdng of quarry material for      *    Ensure supplier has mining license
construction
*      Interruption to services e.g       *     Ensure adequate notification to the
electridty/water supply, road access      community of the interruption with Indication
. on timeline on resumption of service
-77-



Annex IV
Environmental Assessment Form
1.0    General Description of Project
1.1    Obiective
(What is the project objective?)
1.2    Development description
(Briefly describe development - type, location, construction involved)
2.0    Description of Environment
2.1    Physical Environment
Water
(Describe any nearby water
bodies and sources. Type,
water appearance/quality
etc.)
Air
(Describe the apparent
prevailing winds, condition
of the air - e.g. dusty)
Soil
(Describe the slope, type of
soil, permeability, signs of
erosion etc.)
2.2    Biological Environment
Flora/Fauna
(Describe any apparent
vegetation, look for any
important plant and animal
species)
Habitats & Communities
(Near any protected
habitats, sensitive ecological
areas - wetlands, forests)
-78-



23     Socio-economic Environment
Historical Aspect
(Describe any impacts on
monuments, archaeological
ruins etc.)
.N
Aesthetic Aspect
(Describe any alteration to
vistas, natural landscape)
Public Health Aspect
(Desaibe any possible
health risks)
3.0    Building/Construction/Infrastructure Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                   Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourdng of Construction
Material                                  .
Construction Works
Disposal of Construction
Waste
Provision of Electricity,
Water & Sanitary
Conveniences
- 79 -



4.0    Road Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                   Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourang of Construction
Material
Machinery Work
3isposal of Construction Waste
Paving
Maintaining Roads
5.0    Sanitation Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                   Possible Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourcing of Construction
Material
Machinery Works
isposal of Construction Waste
esign & Location of Sewage
ystem
ischarge of Effluent
Maintenance of Sewage
System               .
- 80 -



6.0    Water Delivery Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                      Possible Impacts           Mitigation Measure
Site Preparation
Excavation & Filling
Sourdng of Construction
laterials
Disposal of Construction Waste
Chlorinating/Cleaning of water
Maintaining System/Pipes
7.0    Agro-Processing/Income Generation Projects
Possible Negative Environmental Impacts
Activity                   Possible Impacts              Mitigation Measure
Site Preparation
Sourcing of Construction
Material
isposal of Construction
aterial
achinery Works
Use of Chemicals
Discharge of process residue
and liquid waste
- 81 -



Annex V
Activity-Impact-Mitigation Table
Construction/Infrastructure Projects
ACTIVITY              NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MIGATION
Site                    Loss of trees & habitat      Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Preparation/Vegetabon   destruction, soil erosion,   erosion, controlled blasting.
Clearance               siltation, organic waste     Preservation of habitat as far a
disposal, hazards and noise due  possible through project design.
to blasting
Excavation & Filling    Spoil, dust, accidents       Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations. Use of
approved sites for excavation waste
and approved quarries
Sourdng of Earth Materials Illegal mine &/quarry operation  Provide evidence of supplier's mining
license
Storage & Exposure of   Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials (fines) blockage, dusting      features, cover fines with tarpaulin or
surround with berms
Site Works               Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
acddents                     hours, suppress dust by wetting, erect
hoarding around excavated areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptades, dispose
Generation               contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      buming, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Solid Waste             Improper disposal, public health  Regular collection & disposal at
risk, eyesore                approved sites. Adequate measures
for storage, transport and disposal
Sewage Disposal          Improper disposal, faecal   Ensure provision, maintenance & use
contamination, water & soil  of sanitary fadlities
pollution, health risk, eyesore
Induced Vehicular Traffic  Accidents                 Use traffic signage
Chance finding on site   Destruction of archaeologically  Stop work temporarily and contact the
valuable artifacts           National Heritage Trust for an
evaluation
Other
- 82 -



Annex VI
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Road Projects
ACTIVITY               NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MITGATION
Road Surface Preparation  Spoil, washout, dust, soil  Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
erosion, siltaffon, hazards and  dust by wetting, traffic waming
noise due to blasting        signage, use flagmen, controlled
blasting.
Excavation & Filling     Spoil, dust, accidents       Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourdng of Earth Materials Illegal mine &/quarry operation  Provide evidence of supplier's mining
license
Storage & Exposure of    Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials (fines) blockage, dusting      features, cover fines with tarpaulin or
surround with berms
Site Works               Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
acddents                     hours, suppress dust by wetting, erect
traffic waming signage, use flag men
Garbage & Waste/Spoil   Improper disposal, faecal     Provide garbage receptades, dispose
Generation               contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      buming, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Road Drainage            Flooding of adjacent land, soil  Consult community about local
erosion                      drainage and flooding pattems,
design drainage so as to dissipate
properly
Blockage of Culverts &   Road flooding and surface    Community awareness programme,
Drains                   erosion                      proper maintenance of drains &
culverts.
Induced Vehicular Traffic  Accidents                  Use traffic signage
Other
N.B. As JSIF only works on existing roads there should be minimum clearing of trees, habitat loss or
damage to cultural property as there would be no dearing of land or excavating for new roads.
-83 -



Annex VII
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Sanitation Projects
ACTIVITY              NEGATIVE IMPACT                    MMGATION
Site Preparation/        Loss of trees & habitat, soil  Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Vegetation Clearance     erosion, siltation, organic waste  erosion
disposal
Excavation & Filling     Spoil, dust, accidents       Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourdng of Earth Materials Illegal mine &/quarry operation  Provide evidence of supplier's mining
.__ _ _ _ _ _   license
Storage & Exposure of    Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materals'(fines) blockage, dusting       features, cover fines with tarpaulin or
surround with berms
Site Works               Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
acddents                     hours, suppress dust by wetting, erect
._________ __________   _____________ _____hoarding  around  excavated  areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil    Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptades, dispose
Generation               contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      buming, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Improperly situated or   Sewage pollution, water      Construct in area with low water
designed sewage system   contamination               table, design appropriate disposal
method
Inappropriate discharge of  Faecal contamination, water &  Use septic tanks (where appropriate)
sewage effluents        soil contamination, water bome
diseases, public health risk
Poorly maintained fadlities  Mosquito/fly pests       Ensure provision, maintenance & use
.__________ __________   .___________________ _   of  sanitary   fad lities
Induced Vehicular Traffic  Accidents                  Use tramffic signage
Other
- 84 -



Annex VIII
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Water Delivery Projects
ACTIVITY               NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MMGATION
Site Preparation/        Loss of trees & habitat, soil  Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Vegetation Clearance     erosion, siltation, organic waste  erosion
disposal
Excavation & Filling     Spoil, dust, accidents       Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourcing of Earth Materials Illegal mine &/quarry operab'on  Provide evidence of supplier's mining
.____________________________  license
Storage & Exposure of    Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials (fines) blockage, dusting       features, cover fines with tarpaulin or
surround with berms
Site Works               Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting, erect
hoardinq around e'xcavated areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil    Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptades, dispose
Generation               contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      burning, compost organic waste,
._____________________                       waste  management plan
Improper Chlorination    Supply of poorly treated water,  Regular dispensing of chlorine
poor public health
Improper disposal of     Water & soil contamination,  Design an adequate wastewater
wastewater               water bome diseases, public  disposal system/plan
health risk
Other
- 85 -



Annex IX
Activity - Impact - Mitigation Table
Agro-Processing Projects
ACTIVITY               NEGATIVE IMPACT                   MMGATION
Site Preparation/        Loss of trees & habitat, soil  Mark & protect trees, minimize soil
Vegetation Clearance     erosion, siltaton, organic waste  erosion
disposal
Excavation & Filling     Spoil, dust, accidents      Stockpile & reuse waste, suppress
dust by wetting, use caution tape or
barriers around excavations
Sourdng of Earth Materials Illegal mine &/quarry operation  Provide evidence of supplier's mining
license
Storage & Exposure of    Washout, sedimentation, drain  Store materials away from drainage
Particulate Materials (fines)  blockage, dusting     features, cover fines with tarpaulin or
surround with berms
Site Works               Noise, fugitive dust, hazards &  Restrict activities to normal working
accidents                    hours, suppress dust by wetting, erect
hoarding around excavated areas
Garbage & Waste/Spoil    Improper disposal, faecal    Provide garbage receptades, dispose
Gerieration              contamination, health risk,  waste at approved site, avoid
eyesore                      buming, compost organic waste,
waste management plan
Residue & liquid waste   Soil & water contamination   Design & implement plant waste
discharge                                             management plan, worker training in
use & monitoring of facilities
Conversion of forest for  Deforestation, watershed    Compensatory afforestation
agricultural use         damage
Use of agrochemicals on  Water pollution              Ensure sound use of agrochemicals
crops                                                 through consultations with RADA,
farmer training
Other
- 86 -



Annex X
Format for Environmental Impact Assessment Consultant
Terms of Reference
General Introduction
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) was established in December 1996 as a component of the
Government of Jamaica's strategy to reduce and eradicate poverty. Recognizing the limited capacity of
existing govemment institutions to implement small-scale projects at the community level, Cabinet in
December 1995 approved the establishment of the JSIF as a key component of the Government's
National Poverty Eradication Programme (NPEP). The JSIF is an autonomous government company
designed to provide investments in community based projects Island wide. The JSIF operates as a
demand-driven financial intermediary which follows the prindples of community partidpation and
partnership with the private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community based
organizations (CBOs), and donor agencies, in seeking to channel benefits to the poorest communities
across the country.
The JSIF, which is designed as a four-year project initially, will promote, appraise, finance and supervise
sub-projects in the following areas:
Social Infrastructure - includes the rehabilitation, expansion, construction & equipping of
structures such as schools, health centres, homes for the elderly and disabled, infirmaries and
community centers; it also Includes the construction and rehabilitation of public sanitary
conveniences, drains, canals and community-based water systems.
Economic Infrastructure - indudes the rehabilitation and up grading of parochial, feeder and
urban access roads and the construction and rehabilitation of community-based agro-processing
facilities.
Soial Service - includes assistance to programmes offering services in career guidance and job
placement, counselling (including conflict resolution & drug abuse), parenting and family life
education, and skills training to the productive sectors and the disabled.
Organizational Strengthening - includes technical assistance and training to governmental and
non-governmental institutions in participatory project identification, and to sub-project sponsors
and executing agendes to help grass-roots groups to design and formulate, implement and
manage small-scale community-based projects.
The execution of sub-projects approved for JSIF funding are monitored by staff of JSIF's Implementation
Department, and supervised by extemal on-site Technical Supervisors/Consultants contracted by the JSIF.
Background
<Insert information pertaining to the history of each particular project - description of project/purpose.
Include a description of the environment and the potential environmental impacts of the project.>
Scope of Work
<Insert a description of the undertaking being considered for the consultant(s).
Include brief descriptions of the range and types of alternatives to be considered for the project.
Include a description of any relevant regulatory statutes/approvals that are applicable.
Include an outiine of the work time line expected.>
- 87-



Outputs
<Insert the particular output requirements of the consultation.
Should include - a work plan/schedule of work; a document containing'a detailed description of the
project environment, possible environmental impacts of the project, alternatives to project, mitigation
measures, environmental management plan, estimated costs of mitigation and any other
recommendations>
Payment Schedule
<Insert value of payments and timeline of payments>
Response to Proposal
<Insert date by when Consultant(s) should respond to the TORs above>
- 88-



Annex XI
Project Environmental Monitoring Form
ACTIVITY      MMGATION MEASURE          C    NO            COMMENTS
0   N-C
M   Om
p P11
L    AN
I    CE
A
N
C
E
Sources:
1.    'Jamaica's Commitment To The Conservation And Management Of Natural Resources Ten Years
in Retrospect'; Unpublished Paper, National Environmental and Planning Agency; Kingston, Jamaica
2.    'Jamaica Social Investment Fund Screening Criteria and Preliminary Impact Assessment,
Environmental Consultancy Final Report and Manual'; Peter Reeson, September 1998.
- 89 -



Additional Annex 13: Social Annex
JAMAICA: National Community Development Project
General Social Issues in Jamaica
Jamaica faces several challenging social problems, among them are: high unemployment, limited access
to basic services, crime, violence, and socio-political divisiveness, many of which are interrelated. While
the overall poverty rate in Jamaica declined from 44.6% in 1991 to 18.7% in 2000, the proportion of the
poor in the Kingston Metropolitan Area more than doubled (from 4% to 10%) during the years
1991-1998. These figures indicate an increasing urbanization of poverty. A large share of the recent
political and social upheavals which Jamaica has suffered over the past decades has been attributed to
unacceptable conditions in the inner-city areas where urban poverty is prevalent. Moreover, Jamaica
suffers from high levels of violent crime. In 2001, over 1,100 homicides were reported, resulting in one
of the highest per capita murder rates in the hemisphere. Violence, especially in poor urban
neighborhoods, is so extensive that it is impossible to ignore the issue in the context of increasing levels
of poverty in the country. The murder rate has escalated over the last two decades, exacerbated by
uneven distribution of wealth, domestic violence, rising unemployment (particularly among the youth),
political tribalism, and drugs. While the key social issues in the urban areas are violence and
unemployment, the key social issue in the rural areas is poverty. The rural poverty rate is 24%, or more
than double the urban rate. The high rate is partly attributed to poor infrastructure, inaccessibility, and
lack of basic services. Among the rural poor are the Jamaican Maroons who face many of the same
problems as their rural counterparts.
Maroons of Jamaica
Background
The Jamaican Maroons are descendants of forebears from the same or neighboring regions of Africa that
escaped from slavery during the Colonial Era and obtained their freedom prior to the abolition of slavery.
Today, though Maroons live throughout the island, there are some concentrations in several remote areas
where they first settled. These semi-autonomous communities follow traditional social customs, elect
their "colonels"or community leaders, and deal with certain disputes by themselves, however they are
governed by national legal and political institutions. Jamaican Maroons usually identify themselves as
Jamaicans or Jamaicans with a Maroon heritage, and while many warmly embrace their sub cultural
heritage, many are also fully integrated into mainstream Jamaican society, in some instances holding
senior positions in the national government.
Though Maroons are not considered to be more disadvantaged in the development process than other
low-income rural populations in Jamaica, the inaccessibility of these communities puts them at a
disadvantage. The government is aware of this, and efforts are underway to make these communities
more accessible. As opportunities open, Maroon communities have been evolving from a primarily
subsistence-farming community to rely on revenue from tourism activities and other jobs (as teachers,
nurses, bureaucrats, etc.).
Existing Communities:
There are four main Maroon communities in Jamaica, namely Accompong (St. James), Scotts Hall (St.
Mary), Charles Town (Portland) and Moore Town (Portland), and several other settlements that are
predominantly Maroon (e.g. Comfort Castle, Seaman's Valley). These are all rural mountain
communities, and fall within Quartiles 3 and 4 on the PIOJ Poverty Map. Conditions here are similar to
those found in other poor rural communities across Jamaica, including heavy reliance on agriculture,
poor access roads, unreliable domestic water supply, and few opportunities for employment. They do,
-90 -



however, have an advantage over similar non-Maroon communities in that they are able to benefit from
heritage tourism opportunities, which are actively being pursued through the Tourism Product
Development Company (TPDCo) and the Institute of Jamaica.
JSIF Experience
JSIF has received sub-project requests from nearly all the Maroon communities, and has approved and
implemented projects in Comfort Castle, Ginger House and Moore Town. Other requests are currently in
the pipeline (screening and appraisal). Maroon communities have accessed JSIF through the Social
Development Commission, TPDCo and through word of mouth from other communities. Maroon
communities have been proactive and taken the initiative to contact JSIF regarding subprojects. Recently
a delegation from the community went to JSIF to examine the possibility of constructing a road to help .
facilitate increased tourism in the villages. And though this is not an official subproject, JSIF is working
with them to develop the necessary clearances to obtain the road. As the Maroons have demonstrated
their ability to be proactive and participative in JSIF and other programs, the need for a special outreach
program for the Maroons has not been envisaged. However, as part of the Bank's monitoring of the
beneficiary profile'of JSIF sub-projects, attention will be paid that there is appropriate access by any
low-income target group, including the Maroons.
-91 -



-Z6 -



MAP SECTION






85 U.S.          . t ,r6    r0                 77*3. 90nO(Y
BAHAkGAS ,                        E       sA A                                 /%A
_;P            -19 00   Feet         Meters                JA    M      IVIA                                 A-
MEX0 o CUeA \_ DOOCAN 6eo85||.18004                        T                      Main Arterial Roads           0    Selected Towns
Z02  CARIBBEsAN     HAIT2 2e4                                                  Main Secondary Roads               Parish Capitals
BeELZE     JAMAICA                                 1477          450        1        Main Ports,                        National Capital
Bountemtats              6e I .                          International Airports      .        Parish Boundaries
I      AO EL                           0I                                      0 ,    Region Boundaries          -       County BEoundaries
sa  60~~~~~~~~~
'CA   R          ',E     IV
CORN WALL'
salt                         \d\\                                                   MIDDLESEXr
Spring                  >    . ' A           '          .                              \  PORT
PoMAR t  t = _ _   l-|n;- HI :':AMA
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft C;4jZ/Elay
m8|                                          ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~   ~~~Rocky Point   ^ 
C   o  10  20  .  S0   40 .  fio  KL TOTS                   $ A I       e            M                                                    eJ
:c                                                                                                        T. .ahe  bee  bbe,.  b. Th  edb . .e en s,n~  ., th  b0E,,C0  f  ,-:
>                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ok  0v..n                                                  Knnt  CebTen  TT 1Elm08'b  ifl  an  0, .,a.da*  50;09..-. on O t.  np do - n o t mp l 
C N ;eS          .........   ' - '   ..  ,"78'  "-  >.' '  L                                            n  o n a eb.t,..,,,                e
'A   maggottvN,"'..     Troul                                                       Fairy Ml~~~~~~~I  .I.'









IMAGING
Report No.:         23690   JM
Type:      PAD



