Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7148-JM 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
JAMAICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 31, 2002
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7148-JM 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 2002 , between JAMAICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Jamaica Social Investment Fund 
(JSIF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make available to JSIF the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and JSIF (the 
Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary Community” means a group of persons which are eligible, 
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, to benefit from a JSIF 
Subproject; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Community Subproject” means any of the investments referred to in 
Part A. 2 of the Project; 
(c) 
“Community Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 2.07 (b) of the Project Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Community” means a group of individuals organized as an 
entity with legal personality that is legally authorized to operate in the Borrower’s 
territory and meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out a 
Community Subproject; 
(e) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
the Project Agreement; 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
April 1 and ending on March 31;
 
(g) 
“JSIF Articles” means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of 
JSIF, both dated February 26, 1996; 
(h) 
“JSIF Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part A. 1 
of the Project; 
(i) 
“JSIF Subproject Arrangement” means any of the arrangements referred 
to in Section 2.07 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
(j) 
“Management Information System” means JSIF’s management 
information system, which includes, inter alia, data base of: (i) standard regionalized unit 
prices of works and goods to be used as a reference for the costing of Subprojects; (ii) 
total Project costs; and (iii) performance records of contractors and consultants for the 
Project; 
(k) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 2.02 (a) 
of the Project Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(m) 
“Subproject” means a Community Subproject and/or a JSIF Subproject; 
and 
(n) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01(c) of this Agreement, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to JSIF. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen million 
Dollars
 
($15,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, training and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the 
General Conditions. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may for the purposes of  the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a  special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Page  5
-
4
-
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a
 “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
Page  6
-
5
-
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.11. The Managing Director of JSIF (or such person or persons as such 
Managing Director shall designate in writing) is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions 
with respect to withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account for goods, works, training and 
consultant’s services for the Project. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause JSIF to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of JSIF therein set forth, shall take 
or cause to be taken all action including the provisions of  funds, facilities, services and 
other resources necessary or appropriate to enable JSIF to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to JSIF on a 
grant basis under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Page  7
-
6
-
JSIF, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive 
or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by JSIF  pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
JSIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that JSIF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The JSIF Articles  shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of JSIF to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of  sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the 
parties thereto.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by JSIF, 
and is legally binding upon JSIF in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and JSIF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and JSIF in accordance with 
its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date January 29, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
 
30
National Heroes Circle 
 
Kingston 4 
 
Jamaica, WI 
 
Facsimile:  (876) 924-9291 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
JAMAICA 
 
By  /s/ Seymour Mullings 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Mauricio Carrizosa 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan  
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
 
 
services and/or training, as 
 
the case may be: 
 
(a) under JSIF Subprojects 
6,800,000 
65% 
 
carried out after the 
 
condition set forth in 
 
Section 2.09 of the Project 
 
Agreement has been met; 
 
(b)  under other JSIF Subprojects 
3,000,000 
65% 
 
(2) 
Goods and/or works, as the 
2,580,000 
80% 
 
case may be, under Community 
 Subprojects 
 
(3) 
Goods except as covered 
300,000 
85%
 
under Categories (1) and 
 (2) 
 
above 
 
(4) Consultants’ 
services 
1,920,000 
80% 
 
except as covered 
 
under Category (1) 
 above 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(5) Training 
except 
as 
250,000 
85% 
 covered 
under 
 Category 
(1) 
above 
 
(6) 
Front-end fee 
150,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 15,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” means reasonable 
expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services) incurred by JSIF to finance 
transportation costs and per-diem of trainees, rental of training facilities and rental and/or 
acquisition of training equipment. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) and (b) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the corresponding JSIF Subproject 
Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto;  
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (a) set forth in such 
table, until disbursements from the Loan proceeds have started to be made for 
expenditures under Category (2) set forth in such table; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
(d) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) set forth in such 
table, unless the corresponding Community Subproject Agreement has been signed by the 
parties thereto. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not requiring Bank 
prior review pursuant to Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide basic services and temporary 
employment opportunities to low-income communities in Jamaica; and (b) promote 
greater social and community development in Jamaica, especially among the poor. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Subprojects
1. 
Carrying out by JSIF of the following demand-driven investments: (a) social 
infrastructure projects which consist of: (i) the rehabilitation, expansion or construction 
of schools, health centers, day care centers, shelter homes for children, the elderly and the 
disabled, community centers, training facilities and sport facilities (including the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor); or (ii) the rehabilitation or 
construction of latrines, community showers, drains and canals and community-based 
water systems (including the acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor); 
(b) economic infrastructure projects which consist of: (i) the rehabilitation or upgrading 
of parochial, feeder and urban access roads (including the acquisition and utilization of 
the goods required therefor); or (ii) the rehabilitation or construction of community-based 
agro-processing facilities (including the acquisition and utilization of the goods required 
therefor); or (c) social services projects which consist of: (i) the provision of technical 
assistance and training in career guidance, job placement, counseling, and parenting and 
family-life education; or (ii) the provision of training in productive sector skills.  
2. 
Carrying out by Eligible Communities of the same type of demand-driven 
investments referred to in Part A. 1 (a) and (b) above, costing no more than $100,000 
equivalent each.  
Part B
:
Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening 
1. 
Strengthening of the institutional, operational and administrative capacity of JSIF 
to promote Subprojects through, 
inter alia,
 the provision of training to JSIF staff.  
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (a) the Borrower’s Social 
Development Commission, non-governmental organizations and Eligible Communities in 
the identification, preparation, implementation and management of Community 
Page  16
-
15
-
Subprojects; and (b) the Beneficiary Communities to enable such communities to 
maintain and operate the JSIF Subprojects.  
Part C
:
Project Administration 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to JSIF for purposes of 
monitoring and supervising the Project, including the acquisition and utilization of goods 
required to discharge said function. 
2. 
Hiring of consultants to assist the JSIF in carrying out its activities.  
3. 
Carrying out of Project audits as referred to in Sections 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement and of the Project Agreement. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2007. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date[, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
beginning on February 15, 2008 
 
through February 15, 2019 
4.17% 
 
on August 15, 2019 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank may increase the 
Authorized Allocation to an amount not exceeding $1,500,000 based on the amounts and 
frequencies of withdrawal applications submitted by the Borrower, as well as on the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, for the Project. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
