Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7148-JM 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(National Community Development Project
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
JAMAICAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 
 
Dated October 31, 2002 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7148-JM 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the JAMAICAN 
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND (JSIF). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Jamaica 
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in the  
amount of fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that JSIF agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 (B) 
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
JSIF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to JSIF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and 
WHEREAS JSIF, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. JSIF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall:  
(a) 
carry out Parts A.1, B and C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, 
educational and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of the Project; and 
(b) 
(i) 
cause each Eligible Community to carry out the corresponding 
Community Subproject (pursuant to the corresponding Community Subproject 
Agreement) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical, financial, educational and environmental practices; (ii) in 
accordance with each said agreement, take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable each Eligible Community to perform its obligations under the corresponding 
Community Subproject Agreement; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the corresponding Community 
Subproject. 
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, JSIF shall carry out Parts A.1, B and C of the Project, and cause each 
Eligible Community to carry out its corresponding Community Subproject, in accordance 
with the manual approved by the Bank on September 6, 2002 (the Operational Manual), 
which includes, inter alia: (i) the criteria for Subprojects to be included in Part A of the 
Project, and for communities to become Eligible Communities or Beneficiary 
Communities, as the case may be; (ii) model forms for  JSIF Subproject Arrangements 
and Community Subproject Agreements; (iii) the environmental guidelines and 
procedures to be followed in the environmental screening, approval and mitigation 
compliance of Subprojects under the Project; (iv) the Project financial management, 
disbursement and procurement procedures (including the standard bidding documents 
and standard bid evaluation forms); (v) a list of investments that no Subprojects may 
involve or relate to, including, inter alia, investments involving: (A) use of pesticides that 
are formulations of products within classes IA and IB of the World Health Organization’s 
Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to Classification 
(Geneva: WHO, 1994-95; hereinafter WHO Guidelines) or are formulations of products 
in Class II of the WHO Guidelines; and (B) significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats (as defined in the Bank’s June 2001 Operational Policy 4.04, 
Annex A, on Natural Habitats)); (vi) guidelines for proper selection, application, storage, 
Page  4
-
3
-
handling, transport, and disposal of pesticides; and (vii) the indicators that will be used 
for monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.04. (a) JSIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, JSIF shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and JSIF, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
JSIF on said plan. 
Section 2.05. JSIF shall enter into and duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JSIF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, terminating, abrogating, 
repealing, waiving, assigning or failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 2.06. (a) JSIF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
JSIF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
Page  5
-
4
-
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by JSIF of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 2.07. (a) Prior to start the carrying out of a JSIF Subproject, JSIF shall 
enter into an arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, with representatives of the relevant 
Beneficiary Community (the JSIF Subproject Arrangement) whereby JSIF will undertake 
to carry out such JSIF Subproject for the benefit of said Beneficiary Community if such 
Beneficiary Community contributes with at least 5% of the total cost of such JSIF 
Subproject.  
(b) 
For purposes of carrying out Community Subprojects, and upon approval 
of a Community Subproject by JSIF, JSIF shall transfer, on a grant basis, a portion of the 
Loan proceeds allocated under Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement to the corresponding Eligible Community pursuant to 
an agreement (the Community Subproject Agreement) to be entered into between JSIF 
and said Eligible Community,  on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of the Eligible Community to carry out the 
corresponding Community Subproject and to finance at least 5% of its cost.  
(c) 
JSIF shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each JSIF 
Subproject Arrangement and each Community Subproject Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of JSIF and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan 
and,  except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JSIF shall not waive or fail to enforce any 
JSIF Subproject Arrangement or Community Subproject Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 2.08. JSIF shall perform an environmental screening of every Subproject, 
prior to its approval and financing, according to the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  If the environmental screening of a particular Subproject identifies 
a
potential negative environmental impact, JSIF shall take or cause to be taken all 
mitigatory measures recommended by said environmental screening (including the 
preparation and execution of a Pesticide Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank, if so 
required) in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank.  
 
Section 2.09. JSIF shall not, after withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
to Category (1) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement have reached an aggregate amount of $ 3,000,000,  initiate the carrying out of  
new JSIF Subprojects until disbursements of Loan proceeds have started to be made in 
respect of expenditures under Category (2) set forth in such table. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.10. JSIF shall: (a) maintain at all times during Project implementation a 
Management Information System; and (b) from time to time, as determined by the Bank, 
update said system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
Section 2.11. JSIF shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
set forth in the Operational Manual the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, starting with the report due not later than July 31, 2003, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of the pertinent report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the following calendar semester; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank by January 31, 2005 (the mid-term review), or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take, and/or cause to be taken, all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the
 conclusions and recommendations of said reports and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of JSIF 
Section 3.01. JSIF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. JSIF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental 
practices. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.03. JSIF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  JSIF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 (b) 
JSIF  shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year; (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors,  of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may request from time 
to time  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon JSIF’s reporting obligations set out in 
Section 2.11 of this Agreement, JSIF shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  8
-
7
-
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of JSIF there 
under shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify JSIF thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
Page  9
-
8
-
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Jamaica Social Investment Fund: 
 
Jamaica Social Investment Fund  
10-12 Grenada Crescent 
Kingston 5, Jamaica, WI 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(876) 929-3784 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of JSIF, or by JSIF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
JSIF’s Managing Director or such other person or persons as such Managing Director 
shall designate in writing, and JSIF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Mauricio Carrizosa 
Acting Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the 
Caribbean 
 
JAMAICAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 
 
By  /s/ Seymour Mullings 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,  
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (other than 
goods for Community Subprojects) shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Page  12
-
11 - 
(a) 
Works under JSIF Subprojects estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Goods (other than goods to be procured under Community Subprojects) 
estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. Shopping
Goods (other than goods to be financed under Community Subprojects) estimated 
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Community 
Participation
Goods and works to be financed under Community Subprojects may be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank (including direct contracting in 
circumstances set forth in the Operational Manual). 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works under JSIF Subprojects estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured under Part B.1 
of this Section; (ii) the first two contracts for goods to be procured under Part C.1 (b) of 
this Section; and (iii) each contract for works estimated to cost more than $200,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first five contracts for works to be awarded under 
Part C.4 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any contractor under said Part, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under said Part, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services (excluding audit services) estimated to cost less than 
$50,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-Cost 
Selection
Auditing services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services not exceeding $500,000 equivalent in the aggregate, for 
specialized Project activities, as approved by the Bank, as well as for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  15
-
14 - 
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan may be updated every six months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as updated from time to time as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the report on the comparison of 
qualifications and experience of candidates and the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
Page  16
-
15 - 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (b) of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
 
