                                  Hanks. Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR0000763




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IBRD-71480)




                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                                            TO

                                       JAMAICA

                                        FOR THE

               NATIONAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                   November 24, 2008




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure, Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective December 3, 2008)

      Currency Unit      =      Jamaica Dollars (J$)
               1.00      =      US$ 0.0128
          US$ 1.00       =      77.75

                   FISCAL YEAR
          January 1      -      December 31


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBC         Community Based Contracting
CBO         Community Based Organization
CDC         Community Development Committee
CDD         Community Driven Development
CDP         Community Development Plan
DFID        British Department of International Development
ERL         Emergency Recovery Loan
EU          European Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOJ         Government of Jamaica
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IERR        Internal Economic Rate of Return
JSIF        Jamaica Social Investment Fund
KRC         Kingston Restoration Company
NCDP        National Community Development Project
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
NPEP        National Poverty Eradication Program
OPCPR       Procurement Policy and Services Group
PIOJ        Planning Institute of Jamaica
PMC         Project Maintenance Committee
SDC         Sustainable Development Commission
TA          Technical Assistance



          Vice President: Pamela Cox
        Country Director: Yvonne M. Tsikata
         Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
     Project Team Leader: Taimur Samad
       ICR Team Leader: Taimur Samad

                                                Jamaica
                     National Community Development Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 33
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 43
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      National Community
Country:                Jamaica                 Project Name:
                                                                      Development Project
Project ID:             P076837                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-71480
ICR Date:               12/21/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:             JAMAICA
Original Total
                        USD 15.0M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 14.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Jamaica Social Investment Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
OPEC Fund for International Development


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/24/2002    Effectiveness:          04/08/2003        04/08/2003
Appraisal:             03/25/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/30/2002    Mid-term Review:        12/05/2005        01/09/2006
                                     Closing:                12/31/2007        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     None



                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of          Moderately
                          No
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA): Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                        20                  76
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector           20
Health                                                          20                   5
Other social services                                           30                   2
Roads and highways                                              10                  17


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Primary            Primary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary            Primary
Social safety nets                                             Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Yvonne M. Tsikata                  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:           Guang Zhe Chen                     Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:      Taimur Samad                       Thakoor Persaud
ICR Team Leader:          Taimur Samad
ICR Primary Author:       Julia Van Domelen
                          Jessica Wurwarg



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project DO are: (a) to help communities in areas affected by economic decline and lack
of basic services and (b) to assist the Government of Jamaica to promote greater social
and community development, especially among the poor.




                                                ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDOs not formally revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                             documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of incremental temporary jobs created by sub-projects
                                                                             -15,420
                                                                             person/months
                                                                             -79% of households
                                                                             in NCDP
                                                                             communities with

Value                                                                        road projects cited

quantitative or                                                              the creation of

Qualitative)                                                                 many temporary
                                                                             jobs as a result of
                                                                             NCDP, 61% for
                                                                             health projects and
                                                                             39% for education
                                                                             projects

Date achieved                                                                06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       No targets set# local employment effects widely perceived
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Increase in number of subprojects financed by JSIF after being identified in
               Community Development Plans
                                                                             -173 CDPs

Value                                                                        delivered by SDC

quantitative or 0                         135 CDPs                           -15 approved

Qualitative)                                                                 projects had CDPs
                                                                             from SDC.

Date achieved 09/11/2002                  12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       128% for CDPs; no quantitative targets set for # of projects (only 11% of CDPs

achievement)   had subprojects approved by JSIF)

Indicator 3 :  Increase in access to and quality of basic services
                                                                             Overall, 62% of
                                                                             NCDP community

Value                                     Positive                           members felt that

quantitative or                           improvements by                    the community was

Qualitative)                              type of                            a better place to
                                          intervention                       live, compared with
                                                                             45% in comparator
                                                                             communities



                                               iii

Date achieved                               12/31/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        No quantitative targets set # significant positive impact in all main sectors.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Improved operation and maintenance of project facilities
                                                                                -Schools-64%
                                                                                noted
                                                                                improvements
                                                                                -Health cntrs-70%
                                                                                noted

Value                                                                           improvements

quantitative or                                                                 -67% of subprjects

Qualitative)                                                                    had good to avg
                                                                                maintenance for
                                                                                infrastructure
                                                                                -71% of households
                                                                                stated infrstr is
                                                                                maintained

Date achieved                                                                   06/30/2008
Comments        Positive operations and maintenance on all indicators versus comparison groups.
(incl. %        -Community interest in maintenance was higher in NCDP communities (at 86%)
achievement)    than comparators (at 60%).
                Increase in the number of communities which develop the capacity to select their
Indicator 5 :   own priority projects and to manage project contracting and project
                implementation effectively
                                                                                - 187 communities
                                                                                undertake
                                                                                prioritization
                                                                                processes (all but

Value                                                                           Hurricane Ivan

quantitative or 0                            30 CBC                             subprojects)

Qualitative)                                communities                         -52 communities
                                                                                trained and
                                                                                managing
                                                                                Community-Based
                                                                                Contracting method

Date achieved 09/11/2002                    12/31/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        173% of CBC target met
achievement)
                Evidence of increased complementary investment generated (from residents,
Indicator 6 :   other public sector entities and the private sector) through JSIF and Social
                Development Commission (SDC) assistance to community groups.
Value                                                                           -33 new Benevolent
quantitative or                                                                 Societies created
Qualitative)                                                                    -15 out of 52 CBC



                                                 iv

                                                                            projects
                                                                            successfully
                                                                            received additional
                                                                            complementary
                                                                            funding (29%)
                                                                            from other agencies
                                                                            or locally
                                                                            -JSIF-directly
                                                                            leveraged private
                                                                            sector investments
                                                                            (by Red Stripe and
                                                                            Digicel).
Date achieved                                                               06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :  Number of subprojects with active community maintenance plans and clear
               indication of agreed support from line ministries and/or local authorities.
                                                                            - 31 subprojects
                                                                            prepared and
                                                                            implemented
                                                                            maintenance plans

Value                                     100% of                           - 100% of health,

quantitative or                          traditional and                    education, road

Qualitative)                             CBC infrastructure                 subprojects
                                         subprojects                        received no-
                                                                            objection from
                                                                            sector ministry and
                                                                            parish council

Date achieved                            12/31/2007                         06/30/2008
               20% of applicable subprojects (all economic and social infrastructure
Comments       subprojects, less Hurricane portfolio)
(incl. %       100% of subprojects have indication of agreed support from ministries/local
achievement)   authorities


Indicator 8 :  Level of community satisfaction with subproject and performance of sponsoring
               entities, JSIF, SDC, and Community Development Committees (CDCs).
                                                                            Over 90% of NCDP
Value                                                                       beneficiaries
quantitative or                                                             satisfied with the
Qualitative)                                                                subproject and
                                                                            NCDP performance
Date achieved                                                               06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       No targets set.
achievement)




                                               v

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value             Values (from                  Achieved at
                                                approval      Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)  Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number and type of subprojects
                                                                         Total NCDP: 293
                                                                         Of which:
                                                                                    Social
Value                                                                    Infrastructure: 227
(quantitative                                                                       Economic
or Qualitative)                                                          Infrastructure: 29
                                                                                Social
                                                                         Services: 33

Date achieved                                                            06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Number and type of subprojects financed by CBC
                                                                         Total 52, of which:
                                                                         4 roads and drains
                                                                         8 community
                                                                         spaces
                                                                         16 schools
                                                                         5 life coping skill
                                                                         facilities

Value                                                                    1 sanitation

(quantitative  0                           30                            5 agroprocessing

or Qualitative)                                                          facilities
                                                                         2 counseling
                                                                         facilities
                                                                         4 health centers
                                                                         2 homes/shelters
                                                                         4 skills training
                                                                         facilities
                                                                         1 water supply

Date achieved 09/11/2002                   12/31/2007                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       173%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Facility utilization rate over time
Value                                                                    96% of 297
(quantitative                                                            completed
or Qualitative)                                                          subprojects
Date achieved                                                            06/30/2008
Comments



                                                 vi

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Number of people trained to support community development
                                                                              640 members of

Value                                                                         project

(quantitative                                                                 management

or Qualitative)                                                               committees/
                                                                              Benevolent
                                                                              Societies.
Date achieved                                                                 06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Increase in average percent of community contribution in subprojects
                                                                              Overall NCDP:

Value          5%                                                             12.3%

(quantitative  (JSIF 1)                   10%                                 Of which:

or Qualitative)                                                               Traditional: 11.7%
                                                                              CBC: 24.9%
                                                                              Ivan: 0%
Date achieved 09/11/2002                  12/31/2007                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       123% of target for all NCDP portfolio; 150% subtracting out Hurricane Ivan

achievement)   projects which did not require a counterpart

Indicator 6 :  Reduced time taken to prepare and implement subprojects
                                           80% of                             All NCDP
                                          subprojects                         subprojects:
                                          reaching targets:                   53% of NCDP
                                          525 days                            subprojects met

Value          855 days                   application to                      processing targets

(quantitative  (JSIF I ICR)               practical                           to practical

or Qualitative)                           completion                          completion within
                                          735 days                            525 days
                                          application to final                21% reached goal
                                          completion                          of 735 days to final
                                          (NCDP OpMan)                        completion

Date achieved 09/11/2002                  12/31/2007                          06/30/2008

Comments       Subprojects may stay in registration for long periods a result of gov't delays. If

(incl. %       adjustments are made to exclude projects which spent an inordinate time in

achievement)   registration, then the % of projects completed w/in the specified time target
               increases to 60%
Indicator 7 :  Improved quality in the design and preparation of sub-projects
                                                                              -Quality of work

Value                                                                         done by contractor

(quantitative                                                                 ranked as high in

or Qualitative)                                                               66% of NCDP
                                                                              communities vs.
                                                                              46% for comparator



                                               vii

                                                           communities
Date achieved                                              06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                   IP          Disbursements
                                                            (USD millions)
  1     12/06/2002      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              0.00
  2     05/06/2003      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              0.15
  3     11/05/2003      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              0.65
  4     05/04/2004      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              1.20
  5     06/24/2004      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              1.20
  6     11/29/2004      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              2.59
  7     05/10/2005      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              4.22
  8     06/09/2005      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              4.61
  9     10/18/2005      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              7.05
  10    01/27/2006      Satisfactory        Satisfactory              8.29
  11    10/10/2006      Satisfactory        Satisfactory             11.72
  12    05/03/2007      Satisfactory        Satisfactory             13.00
  13    12/13/2007      Satisfactory        Satisfactory             14.42
  14    06/20/2008      Satisfactory        Satisfactory             14.57



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      viii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

At the time of project preparation, Jamaica had suffered several years of low or negative
growth following external shocks, including the post-September 11 decline in tourism
earnings and low demand for Jamaica's exports. Internally, devastating floods, high
unemployment, limited access to basic services, as well as crime and violence continued
to hamper the ability of poor communities to rise out of poverty. Inequality remained a
key social and economic issue, with the poorest quintile households accounting for only 6
percent of national consumption. Unemployment remained high at 15% of labor-force
age Jamaicans, with greater concentration among youth and women. For years, the need
to attend to financial sector crises and to contain public spending had constrained much-
needed public sector investments in basic services, particularly those used by the poor.

Poverty, unemployment, and lack of services were intertwined and led to rising social
tensions, especially in poor urban neighborhoods. Jamaica suffers from very high levels
of violent crime. Exacerbated by inequality in wealth, domestic violence, youth
unemployment, political tribalism and drugs, murder had escalated over the last two
decades to one of the highest per capita homicide rates in the hemisphere.

The Government's strategy, articulated in its Medium-Term Economic and Social Policy
Framework 1999/2000 - 2002/03, was to protect the poor and vulnerable while improving
quality of life through increased access to developmental programs, social and economic
opportunities and enhanced social harmony. Poverty reduction was to be achieved
through a combination of measures to improve incomes, self reliance, and the quality of
life of the poorest groups and communities.

As a core component of the Government's strategy, the National Community
Development Project (NCDP) supported the World Bank's November 30, 2000 Country
Assistance Strategy objectives of restoring economic growth, promoting inclusion and
protection of the poor, and supporting sustainable development. The NCDP sought to
enhance sustainable development of low-income communities by promoting greater
community selection of development projects and strengthening local capacity to
implement such projects, with the active participation of the population.

The Government of Jamaica (GoJ) chose to channel this support through the Jamaica
Social Investment Fund (JSIF). The Government had established the Jamaica Social
Investment Fund (JSIF) in early 1996 as a core component of the GoJ's national poverty
reduction strategy. JSIF was designed to assist in responding to the needs of the most
vulnerable groups and communities. Several studies and evaluations confirmed that JSIF
had considerable success in reaching a large number of the poor in a manner that was
quick, efficient, transparent and non-partisan. JSIF had a proven track record and had
built strong capacity in participatory approaches to community development among its
implementing partners, including parishes, ministries, NGOs, CBOs and contractors
using community driven development (CDD) principles.




                                             1

1.1 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Project development objectives were: (a) to help communities in areas affected by
economic decline and lack of basic services and (b) to assist the Government of Jamaica
to promote greater social and community development, especially among the poor.

Key performance indicators for NCDP's basic service and employment objectives:
1. Increase in access to and quality of basic services
2. Number of incremental temporary jobs created
3. Improved operation and maintenance of project facilities

NCDP's social development objectives were to be met through two approaches: (a)
embedding community subprojects in participatory community development planning;
and (b) transferring greater control over resources and decisions to community groups
(i.e. adopt a CDD approach), mainly through developing community-based contracting, a
first for Jamaica. Key social development performance indicators include:
1. Increase in the number of projects financed by JSIF after being identified in
    Community Development Plans (CDPs).
2. Increase in the number of communities which develop the capacity to select their own
    priority projects and to manage project contracting and project implementation
    effectively to ensure work quality, reasonable costs, and timeliness.
3. Evidence of increased complementary investment generated (from residents, other
    public sector entities and the private sector) through JSIF and Social Development
    Commission (SDC) assistance to community groups.
4. Number of subprojects with active community maintenance plans and clear indication
    of agreed support from line ministries and/or local authorities.
5. Level of community satisfaction with subproject and performance of sponsoring
    entities, JSIF, SDC, and Community Development Committees (CDCs).

1.2 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

No formal revisions were made to the NCDP. Response to Hurricane Ivan in 2004
prompted an adjustment in activities within prevailing project development objectives.

1.3 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The NCDP's main beneficiaries are poor communities in Jamaica using a targeting
system based on the nation's poverty map developed by the Planning Institute of Jamaica
(PIOJ). The PIOJ map identified poverty zones based on a weighted composite poverty
indicator using youth unemployment, primary school education, and exclusive use of
toilets and piped drinking water. NCDP prioritizes Quartile 4 (poorest) communities in



                                             2

the poverty map as well as pockets of poverty in other quartiles identified through local
indicators and qualitative assessments. Secondary beneficiaries include community
groups through learning-by-doing of preparing plans and implementing small-scale
investments as well as support to them through technical assistance and training.
Community capacity effects would also be transmitted through the experience of
formulating Community Development Plans.

1.4 Original Components (as approved)

The NCDP has three components:

(a) subprojects, consisting of demand-driven community investments to provide basic
    services while helping to create temporary employment. Community proposals would
    be generated by a participatory process. In the past, JSIF had directly facilitated these
    community consultations. Under the NCDP, this task was to be delegated to the
    Social Development Commission (SDC), tasked with facilitating multi-sectoral
    Community Development Plans. NCDP set forth two types of sub-project
    implementation    arrangements:    (i)"traditional"    subprojects   where     fiduciary
    arrangements would be handled directly by JSIF, particularly for larger and/or
    complex works or for situations where community contracting would not be feasible;
    and (ii) community-based contracting (CBC) with procurement and financial
    management carried out directly by community organizations (US$100,000
    maximum). This was Jamaica's first experience with direct community procurement
    and financial management.

(b) technical assistance and institutional strengthening, including support to the
    operational capacity of JSIF as well as technical assistance to the SDC and
    community sponsors in the identification, preparation, implementation and
    maintenance of subprojects, including training to support the CBC system.

(c) administration to enable JSIF to carry out NCDP activities, including monitoring and
    evaluation. The bulk of JSIF operating costs were to be funded by the GoJ.

1.5 Revised Components

The components were not formally revised.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

In September 2004, Hurricane Ivan caused widespread damage in Jamaica, including
about 5,000 homes and 340 schools in need of reconstruction. In response, the Bank's
portfolio was refocused to address reconstruction needs. The NCDP was tasked with
rebuilding 100 schools in target areas. Since this could be accomplished within the
existing project development objectives and components, no formal revisions were made.




                                            3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
Project design built on the experience of JSIF, analysis of the needs of poor communities
in Jamaica and the evolving international best practice in community-driven development
(CDD). The previous Bank-funded Jamaica Social Investment Fund Project was rated by
the ICR and IEG project evaluation reports as having satisfactorily met its development
objectives with a modest institutional impact. Concerns were raised about sustainability
issues including uncertainties about JSIF's future since follow-on funding was not sure.

Design of the NCDP specifically addressed the key lessons learned, identified as:
 Improved community-level planning. Rather than support one-off projects developed
    in the context of a JSIF-managed identification process, the NCDP sought to embed
    its activities within a broader participatory community planning process, in keeping
    with the evolving international best practice and guidance on these types of
    operations. While this is often done in LAC countries through the decentralization
    agenda, with participatory municipal planning playing a role, however, in Jamaica the
    parish councils did not yet play this role and decentralized investment planning was
    very weakly focused around a narrow set of parish responsibilities. On the other hand,
    the Social Development Commission (SDC), a public entity transitioning from a
    social welfare-type focus to a community mobilization and facilitation agency, was
    expanding its mandate to play a more active role in community-level participatory
    planning, but had little track record in this. The NDCP preparation process
    determined that the SDC would help communities establish their Community
    Development Plans, develop funding proposals for JSIF and other entities, which
    would also help SDC fulfill its mandate in this area.
 The need for reinforced attention to operations and maintenance. SDC would also
    be tasked with reinforcing operations and maintenance training to community entities,
    under a service contract with the NCDP. Although most beneficiary communities are
    capable of carrying out minor maintenance activities, they often lack financial
    resources and/or technical expertise for larger tasks. The project sought to help
    communities to improve their own maintenance efforts as well as improve linkages
    with line ministries and parishes.
 Deepening participation and community control. The NCDP reformed JSIF's
    identification and selection process at the community level, focusing on mobilizing
    participation of the poor. The transfer of procurement and financial management
    responsibilities to the community through the use of community-based contracting
    was central to NCDP's social development objectives.
 Proper role for JSIF vis a vis other agencies. Project design streamlined roles and
    responsibilities between JSIF, parishes and sector ministries. Emphasis was placed on
    JSIF's role as a complement to infrastructure investment and operation and
    maintenance programs implemented by line ministries, parishes and others.




                                              4

During project preparation, JSIF's Operational Manual was revised to address
shortcomings identified in previous evaluations and to guide CBC arrangements. DFID
and the EU provided technical assistance to improve JSIFs operations and strengthen the
capacity of the SDC to create Community Development Plans.

Project preparation identified several key risks. The highest risks were seen as a lack of
contractor commitment to labor intensive techniques, mitigated by weighting job creation
more heavily in selection criteria; and difficulties in working with communities with high
social tensions, addressed by phased payment tranches based on community performance.
Other risks, including local coordination and implementation issues, were addressed
through adjustments to procedures and criteria in the Operational Manual.

In terms of implementation readiness, JSIF had a strong track record in managing Bank
loans. The decision to phase in the CBC approach based on an initial EU pilot allowed
the NCDP to move cautiously with this innovation. General working principals were
agreed with the SDC during preparation. However, a full-blown institutional analysis of
SDC was not done during preparation and inter-agency agreement between JSIF and
SDC was not signed until well after project effectiveness.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

The NCDP was approved in October 2002 and declared effective in April 2003, with a
five year implementation horizon. Prior to this, JSIF had accumulated a backlog of
applications awaiting funding. This pipeline of subprojects was reviewed against NCDP
eligibility criteria which allowed the NCDP to move quickly into executing investments,
albeit with this first batch not generated through SDC community development plans.

The NCDP phased in its community-based contracting module with the launch of a pilot
of 16 CBC-managed subprojects, funded by the EU, starting late 2003. This pilot gave
extremely useful input to the NCDP's CBC component, which commenced in mid-2004.
NCDP's approach gave communities choice as to three different types of CBC, from a
model where the community enters a contract with a contractor who then hires labor and
purchases materials, to the more commonly-chosen option of the community directly
hiring labor, buying materials and responsible for all phases of the work. This allowed for
greater tailoring to community circumstance and preference.

Implementation details between JSIF and SDC were not finalized until January 2004. By
mid-2004 SDC had delivered 58 project proposals including Community Development
Plans to JSIF. However, a large number of SDC-generated subproject proposals were
rejected due to poor technical quality, ineligibility, land tenure issues, and a concentration
in community centers that did not fit with agreed criteria of sustainability and poverty
impact. By mid-2005, the Bank supervision team concluded that the SDC would not be
able to deliver sufficient "ready to bid" projects in time to ensure execution before project
closing and agreed that the NCDP would have to seek other alternatives.



                                               5

As the NCDP was scaling up the CBC module and working with SDC to iron out
implementation issues, Hurricane Ivan struck in September 2004. Streamlined appraisal
and contracting procedures were adopted to respond to the emergency, including waiving
community       counterpart  contributions.    Fiscal   and    market   conditions    caused
implementation challenges as well. In response to fiscal shocks in 2004, the OPEC
Special Fund allowed JSIF to utilize its US$5 million NCDP co-financing to fund part of
the government counterpart requirements, allowing NCDP to continue operating during
this critical period.

A Mid-Term Review in January 2006 reported substantial meeting of the project's
development objectives. Specific issues identified were the need to hire consultants to
reinforce operations and maintenance training given the limitations of SDC performance
in this area and reinforced CBC training and site visits to address some delays.
Implementation Status Reports rated achievement of development objective and
implementation progress as satisfactory throughout the lifetime of the project. The
Project received a six-month extension and closed on June 30 2008, mainly to allow for
completion of the Summative Evaluation, which was delayed in contracting.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The NCDP built on the experience and capacity of JSIF in monitoring and evaluation.
The MIS from JSIF's first phase had a sophisticated design but poor linkages between
certain modules and lagging data input. The system was redesigned in 2000, with further
adjustments made in 2002. In terms of evaluation, a robust quasi-experimental impact
evaluation had been carried out at the end of JSIF's first phase providing substantial
information on successful outcomes. The evaluation approach of the NCDP was to build
on this experience. Adequate indicators were identified to monitor progress toward
NCDP's development objective, but no quantitative targets were established at appraisal.

In terms of actual performance in M & E, several iterations of MIS redesign and changes
in key MIS staff during implementation affected progress on internal consolidation of the
system. At the end of the project, the MIS was functioning as a subproject record,
particularly in terms of registration, appraisal, contracting and execution, but most reports
were not being used for decision-making and the modules on performance monitoring
were not fully operational. In terms of evaluation of NCDP outcomes, outcome indicators
were agreed with the Bank in mid-2004 and although baseline and follow-up surveys
were anticipated, the consultancy to conduct the baseline survey was delayed due to a
number of factors. An initial baseline was developed incorporating ex-ante appraisal
information and Census data. In the end, the baseline did not provide sufficiently robust
information so the final impact evaluation adopted the use of comparator communities to
create the counterfactual. The final summative evaluation was conducted by an
international research group using household surveys, community score cards, a process
evaluation and an infrastructure evaluation to determine NCDP's development outcomes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance



                                              6

(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Fiduciary Management
JSIF has a strong track record of successfully implementing the Bank's FM requirements.
JSIF has an internal auditor and an Audit Committee of its Board of Directors. External
audit reports were delivered on time and were not qualified. Some challenges were
encountered in upgrading systems, like AccPac and Fund Manager, but streamlined
financial reporting through the use of FMRs was satisfactorily achieved. The FM aspects
of the project were temporarily downgraded to marginally satisfactory for a time in 2006
based on deterioration in accounting procedures and controls, largely due to ongoing staff
changes. Nonetheless, the Bank found that none of these shortcomings posed a significant
risk to JSIF's financial integrity. Moreover, JSIF's Financial Management team
successfully implemented the innovative use of community financing agreements.

To implement the new CBC approach to procurement, JSIF carried out extensive training
on CBC to community representatives. JSIF ensured that procurement procedures on
CBC subprojects were held to an equally high standard of transparency by engaging the
National Contracts Commission Office of the Contractor General in monitoring. Ex-post
procurement reviews were systematically carried out during implementation. The only
significant issue raised was the concentration of contracts among a limited number of
contractors largely due to the emergency packaging done after Hurricane Ivan, with prior
approval from the Bank, the types of communities NCDP reached (poor, high conflict) as
well as its strict unit cost controls. JSIF furthered transparency by being the only public
agency to publish awarded contract amounts in the newspapers. In 2004, JSIF received an
award from the Master Builders of Jamaica for transparency in awarding contracts.

Environmental safeguards
NCDP preparation included a detailed environmental management plan and revised
subproject appraisal criteria. An external evaluation of subprojects under implementation
confirmed that guidelines were being followed and found that less than 20% showed
minor potential environmental impacts that were easily mitigated. JSIF also developed an
Environmental Management Framework (EMF) to comply with the requirements of
Jamaican environmental laws and regulations and the relevant policies of its funding
agencies, covering all projects financed by JSIF, not just NCDP. In order to ensure the
effectiveness of the EMF, JSIF implemented an Environmental Management System to
identify, monitor and control environmental aspects. JSIF is currently in the process of
international certification for its environmental management through ISO 14001, which is
the most stringent of international environmental standards.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Sustainability at the community level




                                               7

At the community level, there were shortcomings with some of the intended mechanisms
to promote operations and maintenance. The expected support from SDC in O&M
training was more limited than anticipated and the Summative Evaluation found
maintenance planning to be lacking. JSIF is completing the community maintenance
training through the on-going Bank-funded Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan.

However, the data on actual community performance and engagement in O&M paints a
more positive picture. The Summative Evaluation found that community interest in
maintenance was much higher in NCDP communities (at 86%) than comparators (at
60%). 71% of NCDP households stated that infrastructure/equipment is being maintained
by the community versus 42% in comparator communities. This improved outcome was
also reflected in site visits by engineers who found indicative results that 67% of NCDP
subprojects had good to average maintenance versus 50% for comparator infrastructure.
The increased sense of community ownership and engagement in the development
process may have driven these more positive outcomes. JSIF itself sought to aggressively
change the maintenance culture by establishing clear community maintenance
responsibilities and expectations. However, it is worth pointing out that maintenance is
considered a shared responsibility, with less than half of respondents in all communities
stating that the community alone is responsible for maintaining basic services.

In terms of provision of staff and equipment to schools and health centers, coordination
with the line ministries was supported by generally good performance nationwide in
Jamaica in staffing health and education facilities. In terms of the post-completion phase,
the Ministry of Education is making internal arrangements to pay for the repair and
construction of schools through the establishment of a National Educational Trust Fund
(NETF) under the forthcoming Education Transformation Project. Nonetheless, facility
maintenance remains a systemic concern in Jamaica. As a result, under NCDP, JSIF
modified its technical designs to reduce future maintenance needs. At the national level,
JSIF spearheaded the formation of a multi-agency National Maintenance Committee in
2006 to develop national policies and attracted the support of the Caribbean Development
Bank to develop maintenance systems.

In terms of sustainability of community institutions, NCDP reinforced existing
community based organizations (CBOs). In order to receive NCDP funds using CBC they
had to become legal entities with a reporting and maintenance structure. This was
accomplished by establishing Benevolent Societies which report to the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce's Department of Cooperatives and Friendly Societies, which
requires annual audits and provides ongoing technical assistance. This support system
increases the ability of the CBOs to maintain the projects and even develop others. At
Project closing, about one-quarter of these Benevolent Societies had been successful at
securing additional funding from other sources for community development efforts.

Sustainability at the national level
In terms of the sustainability of JSIF's community development efforts, JSIF has ensured
its continuation in the medium-term and consolidated its position as the key community
development agency of the Government, with a funding base of almost US$90 million for



                                             8

the current second phase, with multiple donors, Government, community and private
sector support (Annex table c). Three subsequent Bank operations managed by JSIF help
sustain the gains made under NCDP, including:

 The Inner Cities Basic Services Project, approved in March 2006, to improve quality
    of life in Jamaican inner-city areas and poor urban informal settlements through
    improved access to basic urban infrastructure, financial services, land tenure
    regularization, enhanced community capacity and improvements in public safety.
    CBC is included in the ICBS Project to further community empowerment and savings.
 The Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan, approved in January 2008 after a
    devastating hurricane struck in August 2007, to restore community infrastructure and
    strengthen the GOJ's ability to respond to future natural disasters. Any NCDP
    infrastructure damaged by Dean has been prioritized under the Loan.
 The Second National Community Development Project is currently under preparation.
    Based on the experience of NCDP, NCDP II will focus on rural areas and seek to
    enhance income generating activities among rural producer and community groups.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The NCDP development objectives of improving access to and quality of services in poor
communities and building community capacity remain highly relevant today. The World
Bank's current CAS for Jamaica (2006-2009) is aligned with the government's Medium
Term Socio-Economic Policy Framework and is based on three mutually-reinforcing
pillars: accelerating inclusive economic growth, improving human development and
opportunity, and crime prevention and reduction. The NCDP was seen as a core part of
the Bank's current CAS, as well as the ICBSP and NCDP II follow-up operations. The
CAS also emphasizes the two cross-cutting themes of governance and environmental
sustainability. The NCDP, with its CDD approach to increased bottom-up accountability
and community-level environmental management, further these objectives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

Output quantity, quality and targeting
NCDP financed 287 community subprojects in poor communities at an average
subproject cost of US$86,000. These subprojects generated a significant increase in
infrastructure and services, including 194 rehabilitated schools, 7 health centers, 6 agro-
processing facilities, 4 water and sanitation facilities, 183 life coping skills programs, 11
integrated community service centers and over 42 kilometers of rehabilitated and
upgraded community roads (see Annex 2 for outputs). Over 90 percent of the portfolio
was concentrated in education, health and roads. Over US$4 million was implemented
using CBC, surpassing the PAD target of US$3 million. Hurricane Ivan reconstruction



                                             9

accounted for 93 projects (16 percent of the portfolio), resulting in rapid reconstruction of
about one-third of the affected schools. Overall, an estimated 149,000 residents of poor
communities in Jamaica benefited from NCDP.

The outputs were of good quality and highly relevant to community needs. According to
the infrastructure evaluation, "all the project facilities funded by the NCDP compare
favorably with the control facilities visited in terms of both construction quality and level
of services being provided." The evaluation further noted that quality of the infrastructure
provided appeared to be due to the level of supervision of construction and the
enthusiasm and commitment of the sub-project sponsors. Participatory community
prioritization methods were carried out in all communities and only the two top ranked
needs were eligible, ensuring community relevance. Across the education, health and
road subprojects, an average of over 90 percent of community members were satisfied.

Although there were no specific key performance indicators related to poverty targeting,
subprojects appeared well-targeted to poor communities. 61% of subprojects were in the
poorest Quartile IV communities, well above the guidelines of 40% in JSIF's Operational
Manual. From the Summative Evaluation, over 95% of respondents felt the community
selected was `deserving'. In terms of who benefits within communities, 72% of people in
NCDP communities felt NCDP subprojects benefited poor people versus comparison
communities where only 44% said development projects benefited the poor.

Access to infrastructure and services
These outputs in terms of social and economic infrastructure created resulted in improved
outcomes for community residents. The Summative Evaluation (see Annex 5 for
methodological details) covered the three main sectors of intervention: education, health
and roads. Overall, 62% of NCDP community members felt that the community was a
better place to live than before, compared with 45% in comparator communities. Specific
findings by sector include:

Education. Enrolment in basic education is compulsory in Jamaica, so NCDP education
investments were focused on improving school quality, expanding access to pre-school
and, after Hurricane Ivan, preventing a disruption in schooling. The impact evaluation
found significant improvements in the NCDP-supported schools:

 Improved work and study conditions for NCDP education sub-projects (96% of
    NCDP beneficiaries versus 67% for comparison groups). This finding was reinforced
    by the general agreement among focus group participants across all the school sub-
    projects that the work and study conditions had improved.
 Improved school operations (64% of respondents  not queried of comparators).
 Better learning outcomes, with improvements in student performance noted in 60% of
    treatment communities versus 48% in comparison communities.

Health facilities. NCDP impacts on health services were noted by beneficiaries:




                                              10

 Increased access to health services (75% in NCDP communities noted an increase in
    their access to health services versus 65% in comparison communities)
 Increased utilization of health care facilities (cited by 79% of NCDP beneficiaries
    versus 70% in comparators).
 A slight improvement in perceived quality of health services (58% cited improved
    quality in NCDP communities versus 54% in comparators).
 Improved operation of health centers (cited by 70% of NCDP community members 
    not queried of comparators).
 Perceived improvements in the quality of health service were relatively equal
    between the NCDP communities at 57% and the comparison communities at 54%.
 Women were the main beneficiaries of this health impact, with focus groups noting a
    large increase in utilization by pregnant women.

Roads. Road investments focused on rehabilitation and upgrading rather than creating
new roads since Jamaica has one of the highest road densities in the Region. Overall,
98% of NCDP community members were satisfied with road improvements versus 19%
for comparison communities. In terms of impact, NCDP community members noted:

 Improved quality of life (noted by 93% of NCDP beneficiaries versus 30% for
    comparators)
 Decreased travel times (92% of households reported reduced travel time in NCDP
    communities versus 47% in comparison communities)
 Increased safety of mobility (cited by 68% of beneficiaries in NCDP communities
    versus 40% in comparators)
 Reduced transport costs (25% of respondents in NCDP communities felt that
    transport costs had reduced significantly versus 4% in comparison communities)
 Economic activity increased as a result of the road improvements, with surveys
    noting an increase in perceived access to market and shops (86% for NCDP
    communities and 78% for comparison communities), although there was no
    significant difference noted in perceived availability of market trucks and public
    service vehicles.

Temporary employment outcomes
15,420 of person-months of unskilled temporary employment were generated under
NCDP with wages accounting for 60% of subproject costs, consistent with a labor-
intensive approach. The impact assessment found that 79% of households in communities
with road projects cited the creation of many temporary jobs in the community as a result
of the project, versus 61% for health projects and 39% for education projects. Focus
group interviews found that, given economic hardships in these communities, the creation
of employment opportunities during construction was highly prized by the community.

Social development objectives
The NCDP's social objectives were twofold: (a) to embed NCDP investments within
participatory community planning via SDC and (b) transfer greater control and
responsibilities to the community level via community-based contracting. Several notable
achievements were made, though the community planning experience was mixed.


                                             11

The NCDP developed and successfully implemented Jamaica's first experience with
CBC. JSIF spent considerable effort in training sponsoring organizations and monitoring
CBC activities to ensure proper fiduciary management. Although there was initial JSIF
staff resistance as it required more community interactions, the experience was found to
be an effective option, with possible community capacity spill-over benefits. CBC
projects were cost efficient, with 30% of communities able to generate a savings that
could be applied to other community efforts. These savings were largely due to greater
community oversight over contractors and community purchasing. Moreover, CBC
approaches were able to generate twice the average level of community contributions, at
25% versus 12% across the NCDP portfolio. The infrastructure evaluation found
generally acceptable quality of construction across the board, with no differences by
contracting type. In addition, the creation of Benevolent Societies and their hands-on
experience with managing funds and contracts created community capacity beyond the
NCDP, with one-quarter able to successfully raise funds from other sources. Overall,
there was an increase in the number of communities which developed the capacity to
manage investments.

The other goal, that of embedding NCDP subprojects within participatory community
development plans, was not fully realized. Although 183 CDPs were developed, only 15
viable subproject proposals stemmed from them. SDC lacked capacity and the agreement
between JSIF and SDC was ill-fitting in terms of the different objectives and rhythms of
the two institutions. SDC was recently moved to the Ministry of Youth and Sport, rather
than Local Government, and it is not clear whether its community facilitation mandate
will persist. At the same time, Jamaica's decentralization agenda has not advanced, with
parishes having relatively few responsibilities, little funding and no tradition of
participatory community planning.

It is also worth noting that with the rapid response to natural disasters, NCDP fostered the
creation of a mechanism that can reach poor communities quickly and efficiently rebuild
affected infrastructure. This is an important element of community-based risk
management, particularly as shocks to poor communities tend to have more lasting long-
term effects.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As detailed in Annex 3, efficiency and effectiveness was achieved under NCDP. Looking
at the program as a whole, overhead costs were contained to 18%, well below a PAD
estimate of 38% and within international norms for CDD and social fund operations. This
allowed for more funding to be dedicated to investments. NCDP leveraged an average of
12% in community counterpart contributions, surpassing the 10% target.

Cost Efficiency of NCDP Subprojects
Looking at the economic efficiency of the community investments reveals that, in terms
of cost efficiency and control of unit costs, the Summative Evaluation found that "JSIF


                                              12

rates for construction work are considered `below the market rate'. While comparisons
with unit costs from other agencies was limited, the ICR mission did find that on
construction of a 3 classroom module, JSIF's costs were between 12-17% lower than
construction of a similar classrooms by Jamaica's Culture, Health, Arts, Sports and
Education Fund. Cost variations during construction were also contained within industry
norms, and below 20% for the NCDP portfolio as a whole. Community-based contracting
appears to have encouraged additional cost savings, with over 30% of CBC subprojects
generating savings that were directed to complementary community investments.

Cost-Effectiveness of NCDP Subprojects
Cost-benefit analysis is not applicable to the education and health investments since
benefits are not fully quantifiable, but evidence points to significant improvements in
access to and quality of services with positive impacts on households. Road rehabilitation
and upgrading typically have high economic rates of return in Jamaica and similar roads
under the previous JSIF project had acceptable economic rates of return. NCDP's road
investments were in line with national priorities and higher-return investments. The
Summative Evaluation confirmed the economic impact from NCDP road investments,
including significant improvements in access to markets and shops and safety and
significant decreases in travel times and costs compared to comparator roads. The
methodology of the Summative Evaluation did not allow for the calculation of an ERR.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating is based on the NCDP's relevance as part of the national poverty
reduction strategy and Bank's CAS, the strong performance on improving the wellbeing
of residents of poor communities and creating temporary employment as well as progress
on some of the social development objectives, and the continued efficiency of JSIF's
performance in facilitating investments in poor communities in Jamaica. This rating is
consistent with the achievements against NCDP's key performance indicators.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The immediate poverty impacts appear strongest for roads, where community-wide
economic effects were noted. Investments in human capital through improved education
and health will have medium-term poverty reduction effects measurable beyond the
narrower timeframe of project implementation. Moreover, the rapid response to natural
disaster effects provided poor communities with effective coping with these shocks.

Women benefitted significantly from the NCDP subprojects. While social and economic
infrastructure conferred community-wide benefits, the focus group discussions pointed to
women as the prime beneficiaries of the health centers, particularly in terms of expanded
access to pre- and post-natal services. Gender-disaggregated data on community group



                                             13

members was not collected, but again focus group discussions pointed to a very active
role for women in these organizations.

Social development aspects related to participatory community planning and community
control over project implementation aspects is discussed at length in Section 3.2 above.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

Institutional Impacts at the Community Level
The institutional impacts of NCDP within targeted communities are significant. JSIF
enabled 186 community sponsor groups to carry out community investments. The ability
of these sponsor groups to identify and implement their goals was empowering and
strengthened community capacity. Over 50 CBOs and 640 CBO members received
training in community resource management skills. Participants of CBC evaluation
workshops identified the benefits from this approach in terms of leadership experience,
management skills, bookkeeping skills, conflict resolution and communication skills, and
construction skills and that these skills acquired could be used `in personal life' and
`future community projects'. They also noted greater social cohesion (e.g. enhanced
community development as it brought together various groups within the community')
and that `communities can do things without political involvement'. Because each
community using CBC required a legal entity to manage the funds, 33 new Benevolent
Societies were formed. These organizations are under the direction of the Government's
Department of Cooperatives and Friendly Societies, which provides ongoing support and
carries out annual audits, thus enhancing the sustainability and capacity of these groups.

Institutional Development of JSIF
JSIF has an established track record in implementing GoJ poverty alleviation projects. Its
institutional capacity has enabled it to attract about US$90 million in on-going funding,
including OPEC, CDB and EU-financed social/community-level infrastructure
investment programs using the approaches developed in the NCDP. Of note in terms of
institutional development impacts:
      The NCDP created rapid response capacity for natural disasters, a consequence of
         JSIF's engagement in the Hurricane Ivan reconstruction. The creation of this
         capacity was important in responding to subsequent natural disasters. For
         example, JSIF's response to Hurricane Ivan under NCDP resulted in the
         organization also becoming responsible for the Hurricane Dean ERL and JSIF
         now plays a core function in Jamaica's ability to reconstruct from its recurrent
         natural disasters.
      In one of the very few examples worldwide, JSIF's efficiency and transparency
         has attracted private sector contributions, including Digicel Foundation, Red
         Stripe, Rotary, and Chase who have been using JSIF as an implementing agency
         for privately-funded community development projects.

Impacts on Other Institutions



                                             14

NCDP's effect on SDC was more limited than anticipated at the outset. NCDP supported
SDC's shift, initiated in 1998, from a social welfare-oriented agency to its current
community empowerment and mobilization focus. NCDP enabled SDC to carry out
Community Development Plans in 183 communities, or about half of SDC's overall
target of reaching 45% of Jamaica's 786 communities. SDC's field staff were trained in
operations and maintenance through the NCDP. Lift UP Jamaica, a GOJ program
involved in school construction, also partnered with SDC to facilitate community
mobilization. Lift UP Jamaica recognized the value of the training JSIF provided to SDC
and indicated that their decision to work with them was based on this acquired
competence.    However, SDC lacks the technical capacity and credibility to be the
primary community mobilization and participatory planning mechanism for the country.
Its interventions are still viewed in an ad-hoc nature, with SDC brought in where either
an assessment or facilitation is needed and Community Development Plans have not yet
gained traction as a core organizing vehicle for community efforts in Jamaica.

In terms of the education sector, JSIF pioneered more appropriate designs for equipping
basic schools. JSIF's Hygiene Training Module is being incorporated into the national
school curriculum and has already been modified for use in basic schools. JSIF's designs
have now become standards under the Early Childhood Commission. And, JSIF's
Community Maintenance Manual is being used in Lift UP Jamaica projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Findings of the Summative Evaluation are presented in the sections on Achievement of
Development Objectives and Risks to Development Outcomes. Details on methodology
and approach are presented in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
NCDP deepened JSIF's capacity to assist poor communities as part of the Government's
poverty reduction strategy. Engagement in the process and satisfaction with the outcomes
has generated community and sectoral commitment to maintaining these benefits.
Performance in this area has been better than in comparator communities, though
systemic challenges remain. The overall social objectives of furthering community-driven
development and building responsive community capacities is continuing to be
implemented through JSIF's expanding portfolio of operations.




                                            15

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank's initial support for the creation of JSIF was an important step in the GOJ's
poverty eradication initiative and it opened the door for assistance from other donors and
lenders to be channeled through JSIF. NCDP was a core part of the Jamaica's national
strategy and the Bank's prevailing CAS and served a clear need in poor communities.

The Bank provided significant value-added to the technical, financial and economic
aspect of project design. The Bank's extensive experience in social funds and
community-driven development lent critical technical guidance during project
preparation. The Bank facilitated the design of the CBC approach through workshops in
Washington and contact with consultants from other countries with experience in CBC.
The Bank also engaged effectively with JSIF during the preparation process in ensuring
its fiduciary and environmental safeguard systems were ready prior to project launch.

Moderate shortcomings in quality at entry include:
 General monitoring and evaluation approaches and instruments were identified, but
    specific outcome indicators, baselines and targets were not developed ex-ante for
    most of the key performance indicators.
 Key risks were identified, including the ability of SDC to work with communities
    throughout the project cycle. While training and periodic reviews were called for, it
    does not appear that an institutional capacity assessment of SDC was carried out.
    Moreover, a signed implementation agreement would have been useful to require up
    front. As it turned out, there was a year delay in coming to agreement and significant
    differences in understanding and priorities between the two parties.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank team carried out consistent supervision efforts, including semi-annual
supervision missions and a Mid Term Review. There were three Task Team Leaders over
the life of the project, though the same TTL was in place during the bulk of project
implementation. Team composition was strong on FM/procurement and provided
technical support to the implementation of the CBC component, including conducting a
roll-out of the Bank's CDD Fiduciary Management Training Package in Jamaica in 2002
and arranging training events in Washington and study tours abroad. During the ICR
mission, the client noted that the more frequent rotation in the procurement and financial
management staff members of the Bank team caused some differences in guidance given.




                                             16

The Bank supervision team identified most implementation problems rapidly and worked
with JSIF to address them in a timely fashion. Supervision was particularly effective in:
 Conducting extensive subproject site visits during missions which allowed the team
    to collect first-hand impressions of implementation issues in the communities.
 Intensive supervision efforts in financial management and procurement, including
    frequent ex-post procurement and SOE reviews and capacity building activities was
    important as the NCDP was the first project in Jamaica to use CBC methods.
 Significant attention was also placed on environmental management issues, with the
    Bank supporting JSIF's ISO accreditation process.
 The Bank displayed flexibility in working with JSIF to develop its rapid response to
    Hurricane Ivan and in adjusting the financing parameters for subprojects to simplify
    execution when the Bank's new Country Financing Guidelines were put in place.
 Overall commitment to keeping implementation on track, for example monthly
    contracting and disbursements schedules were submitted to the Bank

However, there were some minor shortcomings in supervision. There was incomplete
monitoring of key performance indicators in the ISRs. In addition, although a potential
lack of cooperation between JSIF and sector entities was rated as a high risk, the issue
was underappreciated in supervision activities, with few meetings with the sector
ministry or parish staff during supervision missions. While the Bank provided a high
level of technical support to M&E including inclusion of an MIS expert in the project
team and incorporation of impact evaluation experts to advise JSIF, the difficulties in
effectively implementing monitoring and evaluation tools should have been reflected in
changes to the ISR M&E ratings during those periods.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank team's performance was satisfactory, with effective partnership to
develop a well-designed project and a strong showing on most implementation issues, in
particular fiduciary management and safeguards and extensive field visits to gather
insights on subproject implementation and community dynamics issues.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The role and mandate of JSIF was clearly established in the national poverty reduction
strategy. The Government was highly supportive of NCDP's innovative approaches
furthering community-driven development. GoJ consistently provided counterpart
funding to NCDP and when the Government was facing major fiscal constraints,
requested that OPEC funding fulfill the GoJ's contribution. Government representatives
on JSIF's Board of Directors ensured that JSIF's operations were transparent and
efficient, which resulted in JSIF continuing its operations through changes in
Administration. Higher levels of Government might have better mediated the difficulties




                                            17

between JSIF and SDC, but in the end SDC's state of readiness upon signing the MOU
with JSIF was not compatible with the design of the project

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
JSIF effectively implemented NCDP. JSIF staff took on the challenge of transferring
greater control and responsibility to community groups, which represented a departure
from usual practice and increased their workload and implementation complexity.
Administrative and investment costs were efficient compared with both national and
international benchmarks. JSIF's transparent procedures, including being the only agency
in Jamaica to publish contract amounts, won it a national award. JSIF responded quickly
to the reconstruction needs following Hurricane Ivan, adapting procedures to ensure
timeliness in its response capabilities.

Despite this overall success, JSIF faced some challenges in implementing the NCDP.
Turnover of technical staff, often times to international agencies due to their high quality,
was responsible for some slowdowns in implementation. JSIF failed to develop the MIS
as an effective management tool, despite significant investments in system design. In
terms of the breakdown in the agreement between JSIF and SDC, there is blame on both
sides. The basic problem was a mismatch in the timeframe and quality of community
facilitation services needed for NCDP and SDC's institutional priorities and capabilities.
And, while JSIF was exemplary in terms of the cost efficiency of the organization, it was
not able to meet the ambitious processing efficiency targets set at appraisal. Many of the
factors, like land titling, wait times for no objections from line ministries and parishes,
and the buildup of demand from enthusiastic communities, do not reflect on JSIF's
efficiency. And, longer processes to ensure proper completion of infrastructure or
training of communities in CBC enhanced the quality of the end products.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The Government of Jamaica and JSIF implemented the NCDP with due diligence and
flexibility in responding to needs and implementation issues as they arose. The core
objectives of the NCDP were met and in many areas targets were surpassed.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

JSIF has assumed an important institutional niche in Jamaica and has become the
platform for experimenting with community-driven development approaches across
multiple funding agencies. Initially set up as a temporary agency, under the NCDP JSIF
has continued to innovate with approaches to poverty reduction at the community level
and to provide an example of transparency and good governance. As a result, the NCDP
experience has shown that a multi-sectoral, poverty-targeted agency can be a well-
integrated instrument of Government policy.



                                             18

Ideally, community projects should be embedded in participatory local planning, but
this is a challenge to develop as a national instrument. Jamaica did not have a
functioning system of participatory community development planning. NCDP correctly
identified SDC as the agency having the closest to this mandate, but had little capacity to
readily fulfill this role. CDD projects face a quandary in this circumstance and good
institutional analysis upfront to determine capacity and responsibilities is essential. Even
without this broader community planning, very relevant and sustainable community
investments can be made provided there are effective sectoral linkages and good
community outreach.

Community-based contracting is an important option to develop within CDD projects.
The NCDP experience found cost savings with no loss of quality when carrying out CBC.
There may be spillover benefits to local capacity building, as seen in the creation of
Benevolent Societies that have been able to generate additional funds for their
communities. However, staff may initially resist the added complexity of transferring
responsibilities to communities and will need intensive training and orientation. Rather
than an either/or approach to community-based contracting arrangements, providing a
menu of options for different types of CBC alongside traditional fiduciary management
creates flexibility and allows for tailoring to circumstance and community preference.

Service access goals can be met over the time horizon of a single 5 year project, but
broader changes at the community level may take a longer time to take root and more
experimentation with effective approaches. Social development objectives, like
developing community institutions, building social capital, developing trust in and
between communities, and changing longstanding inter-community relationships may
take longer and not be a straight path. These broader social objectives should be modest
and well-focused in the short-term. And, it is important to find ways of documenting
these on-going changes where simple quantitative indicators are insufficient.

NCDP's response to Hurricane Ivan demonstrated that natural disaster reconstruction
capacity is important in reducing vulnerability of poor communities. Based on its
experience in Hurricane Ivan, JSIF was able to respond quickly to Hurricane Dean.
Existing agencies like JSIF can be put to the task quickly rather than resorting to ad hoc
arrangements. This role of vulnerability reduction should be recognized in project
development objectives and reflected in key performance indicators.

In monitoring and evaluation, simple, implementable system designs and upfront
definition of targets, methodologies and expected MIS system outputs are essential.
Acknowledging that the NCDP spent considerable efforts on the development of the MIS
and evaluation studies, in both cases the quality of results were less than hoped for. The
focus on revisions to the MIS to build a more sophisticated system detracted from ability
to update and fill in data and create a user-friendly system. In terms of evaluation, given
the complexity of the challenge of building robust evaluations, projects need to start out
with a clear idea of the specific evaluation strategy and terms of reference, rather than
develop approaches during implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


                                              19

The ICR team has no comments on the issues raised by the Borrower as their contribution
is consistent with the findings of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not Applicable.




                                            20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal        Actual/Latest
          Components              Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD         Percentage of

                                     millions)          millions)          Appraisal

SUBPROJECTS                             18.30               24.58            134%
TA AND INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                             3.04               0.45             15%

ADMINISTRATION                            8.16               4.79             59%



          Total Baseline Cost           29.50               29.82

Physical Contingencies                    0.00               0.00             0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00               0.00             0.00
           Total Project Costs          29.50                0.00
Front-end fee PPF                         0.15               0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00              .00
   Total Financing Required             29.65                0.00

Note: Institutional support (TA and administration) were dimensioned at appraisal prior
to knowing future funding commitments to JSIF. These have turned out to be higher than
expected, resulting in spreading JSIF's fixed cost over a larger pool of funders, lowering
the relative share of administration and TA to be financed by NCDP, freeing up Project
resources for more subproject.


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Late

          Source of Funds             Type of      Estimate     st Estimate Percentage
                                    Cofinancing     (USD           (USD     of Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                         11.15         11.87        106%
Local Communities                                0.91          2.95         325%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development                   15.00         15.00        100%

Foreign Multilateral Institutions
(unidentified)*                                  2.59          0.00*        100%

                                                 29.65         29.82
*US$5 million from OPEC's funding is included under Government counterpart
(c) Consolidated JSIF Financing



                                            21

                                 Amount (US$M) Closing Date           Type
Closed Funding Agreements
Government of Jamaica            15.93                                Counterpart
Beneficiary Communities          2.55                                 Counterpart
Government of Japan              0.5                 12/1996          Grant
Government of the Netherlands    2.8                 3/2001           Grant
OPEC                             2.0                 6/2001           Loan
IBRD (JSIF 1)                    20.0                7/2001           Loan
DFID                             0.77                12/2001          Grant
IADB                             9.5                 7/2002           Loan
Japanese Policy and Human        0.65                3/2006           Grant
Resources Development (PRHD)
European Union (Poverty          3.5                 6/2006           Grant
Reduction Programme)
Caribbean Development Bank       14.25               12/2006          Loan
Japanese Policy and Human        1.8                 10/2006          Grant
Resources Development (PRHD)
TOTAL                            77.15

Phase II Funding
Government of Jamaica            13.4                On-going         Counterpart
Beneficiary Contribution (NCDP   2.95                6/2008           Counterpart
estimate)
IBRD Emergency Recovery          10                  6/2011           Loan
Project
EU Poverty Reduction Programme   9.7                 12/2011          Grant
2
PHRD NCDP II                     0.5                 4/2009           Grant
IBRD  Inner City Basic Services 29.3                12/2011          Loan
Project
OPEC                             5                   6/2009           Loan
Basic Needs Trust Fund (CDB)     2.86                6/2010           Grant
IBRD - NCDP                      15                  6/2008           Loan
Red Stripe                       .028
TOTAL                            88.74

Not including NCDP 2 under preparation: $26 million total, of which $15 million IBRD,
$9 million Government of Jamaica




                                        22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The NCDP has three components: (a) subprojects, consisting of demand-driven
community investments in social and economic infrastructure, social services and
training; (b) technical assistance and institutional strengthening, including support to the
institutional, operational and administrative capacity of JSIF as well as technical
assistance to the Social Development Commission, NGOs and community groups in the
identification, preparation, implementation and management of subprojects; and (c)
administration to enable JSIF to carry out project activities, including monitoring and
supervising the NCDP. Specific outputs by component encompass:

1. Subprojects

NCDP Portfolio Breakdown

Table 1: by Project Type                                      Table 2: by Poverty Quartile
Type                                   Total                     Quartile            Total
Agro Pro.                                    6                         (wealthiest) 1    10
Conflict Resolution                          1                                     2     33
Counseling                                   2                                     3     71
Health                                       7                           (poorest) 4    179
Homes                                        3
Integrated Community Spaces                 11
Life Coping Skills                          38
Road                                        21                  Total                   293
Sanitation                                   2
School                                    194
Skills Training                              3
Skills Training - Equipping                  2
Skills Training - Infrastructure             1
Water                                        2
Total                                     293


Table 3: By Sector

Sector                    Total
Economic Infrastructure         29
Social Infrastructure          227
Social Services                 37
Total                          293




                                             23

     Table 4: Distribution of NCDP Subprojects by Implementation Type
     Funding Source                 Implementation Type           No. of Subproject
     WB
                                    CBC                           51
                                    Ivan                          89
                                    Traditional                   91
                                    SUB-TOTAL                     231
     GOJ
                                    Ivan                          4
                                    Traditional                   29
                                    SUB-TOTAL                     33
     GOJ / OPEC
                                    CBC                           1
                                    Traditional                   22
                                    SUB-TOTAL                     23

     TOTAL                          CBC                            52
                                    Ivan                           93
                                    Traditional                   142
                                    TOTAL                         287

     Table 5: Distribution of NCDP Portfolio by Amount, including Community Contribution
                                                                                    %
Implementation                                                    Community         Community
Type             No.      NCDP Cost J$M        Total Cost         Contribution*     Contribution
CBC                  52      211,438,987.00        281,456,346.00  70,017,359.00          24.88%
Ivan                 93      240,419,795.00        240,419,795.00            0.00          0.00%
Traditional         142     867,884,986.00         982,984,690.00
                                                                  115,099,704.00          11.71%
Total               287    1,319,743,768.00     1,504,860,831.00  185,117,063.00          12.30%
     *Per community financing agreements


     2. Technical assistance and institutional strengthening

     Key activities and outputs under the technical assistance and institutional strengthening
     include:
          Training and study tours to Washington, Africa and Eastern Europe for JSIF staff
            to gather international best practice in community-driven development
          Extensive CBC training at the community level, which included in addition to
            technical assistance to individual community sponsors, multi-community




                                                  24

     workshops and evaluation workshops to gather community input on the
     performance of the mechanism.
    Technical assistance and external consultants to evaluate environmental impacts
     of NCDP subprojects and management practices in NCDP as well as improve the
     Operational Manual in these aspects
    Baseline study and Summative Evaluation contracted to international firms
    Technical assistance to upgrade the Management Information System
    Technical assistance funding to the SDC for the development of 135 Community
     Development Plans and 15 operations and maintenance plans completed (in
     addition, 135 Community Development Officers of SDC were trained in O &M
     through complementary EU financing).

3. Administration

NCDP supported:
    Two JSIF senior managers were financed under the Loan
    Annual external audits
    Equipment, including computers, printers and one vehicle as well as accounting
     software to support JSIF as NCDP implementing agency




                                        25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

At appraisal, an overall NPV or ERR was not calculated as it was not applicable to this
type of demand-driven project where the sectoral distribution of investments are not
known upfront. Moreover, in most instances, the type of the sub-projects financed, their
size, location and other characteristics, such as school rehabilitation or health center
construction, do not allow for traditional economic rate of return analyses. However, a
very strong proxy for such analyses emerges when beneficiaries are given the opportunity
to assess their needs and establish priorities. Moreover, Internal Economic Rate of Return
(IERR) analyses were done on a sample of subprojects under the first JSIF operation
showed substantial economic benefits. In 2001, an impact-evaluation study was
conducted by an external consultant to measure the impact of JSIF sub-projects. In
particular, economic analyses were performed on water and road projects with very
favorable results. The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the 12 rural road
projects examined ranged from 7% to 23%, with an average of 13%. The IERR for the 9
water projects ranged from 83% to 303%, and averaged 198%. Such results can be
expected when beneficiaries are given the opportunity to assess their needs and establish
priorities. Additionally, by requiring that beneficiaries contribute a minimum of their own
resources (in cash or in kind), the benefits from their choices become very evident.
Efforts were been made to ensure that in the selection and design processes for subproject
selection, least-cost consideration would also be more explicitly taken into account

Ex post analysis shows that the expected cost efficiency and effectiveness was achieved
under NCDP.

Overall efficiency of NCDP
As a program, the NCDP was consistent with international and national measures of
efficient program implementation:
     Overhead costs were contained to 18%. The PAD estimated that overhead
        (technical assistance and administrative costs) would account for 38% of NCDP
        costs. This is quite high, but the estimate was made without knowing how much
        additional financing JSIF would be able to attract to amortize its fixed staff and
        operational costs. The final overhead (all non-subproject costs) was about 17.5%,
        well within international norms for CDD and social fund operations.
     Additional community counterpart contributions were crowded into the NCDP
        financing plan. Previously, JSIF operated with a 5% community contribution
        requirement. NCDP targeted 10% and achieved 12% overall. Using community-
        based contracting boosted community contributions to 25% on this part of the
        NCDP portfolio.

Cost Efficiency of NCDP Subprojects
The NCDP portfolio, in part due to Hurricane Ivan reconstruction needs, was largely
focused on education subprojects (76% of NCDP funding), roads (17%) and health
facilities (5%). Looking at the economic efficiency of these community investments
reveals:



                                              26

 In terms of cost efficiency and control of unit costs, JSIF has continued to lead
  in cost constraint among the Jamaican public sector. A national unit cost data
  base was updated regularly and helped constrain costs. The Summative
  Evaluation found that "JSIF rates for construction work are considered `below the
  market rate'. This is partly due to a conservative cost data base and lack of recent
  updates. However, the lower rates do not appear to translate into a lack of interest
  to bid for JSIF projects. This might be related to the geographic areas in which
  JSIF projects tend to be: remote rural or volatile inner city which are apt to attract
  small scale and rather local contractors for whom the construction boom has had
  less benefits." While comparators with unit costs from other agencies was limited,
  the ICR mission did find that on construction of a 3 classroom module, JSIF's
  costs were between 12-17% lower than construction of a similar classrooms by
  Jamaica's Culture, Sports and Education Fund.
 Cost variations during construction were also contained within industry norms.
  Typically, public sector investments place a 20% contingency on contracts.
  NCDP cost variations as a percentage of subproject costs averaged 17% on
  traditional, 15% on CBC and 21% on Hurricane Ivan subprojects.
 Community-based contracting appears to have encouraged additional cost
  savings. Over 30% of subprojects contracted using CBC methodologies generated
  significant savings that were directed to complementary community investments.

Cost-effectiveness of NCDP Subprojects
 Cost-benefit analysis is not applicable to the education and health investments
  since benefits are difficult to quantify, but qualitative evidence points to
  effective investments. The Summative evaluation found that, in the education
  sector, NCDP investments results in qualitative improvements to education
  including increased learning outcomes over comparators. In health, although
  household level health outcomes were not measured, the impact evaluation found
  an increase in access to and utilization of health services.
 Road sector investments were concentrated in rehabilitation and upgrading,
  which typically have high economic rates of return in Jamaica, and community
  members confirmed the economic impacts over comparators. Poor road
  maintenance across Jamaica had contributed to very high rates of accidents and
  fatalities and had lowered the economic efficiency of the road system overall.
  NCDP's road investments were in line with national priorities and higher-return
  investments. The Summative Evaluation confirmed an increase in economic
  impact from NCDP road investments, with community members perceiving
  significant improvements in access to markets and shops and safety and
  significant decreases in travel times and costs compared to comparator roads. The
  methodology of the Summative Evaluation did not allow for a strict quantification
  of the magnitude of these observed benefits.




                                        27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

          Names                       Title             Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                   Specialty
Lending



Supervision/ICR
Eduardo Bayon           Consultant                    LCSUW
Jorge Cavero            Consultant                     LCSPT
Katherine M. Shafer                                            Operational
Coleman                 Consultant                     LCSHE   support
Leanne Farrell          Junior Professional Associate  LCSSA
Daniel A. Hoornweg      Sr Environmental Engr.        LCSUW
Mary Morrison           Country Officer                LCC3C
Ahmadou Moustapha       Lead Financial Management
Ndiaye                  Spec                           LCSFM

Emmanuel N. Njomo       Consultant                     LCSFM
Guido Paolucci          Sr Procurement Spec.           LCSPT
Norma M. Rodriguez      Procurement Analyst            LCSPT
Heinrich K. Unger       Consultant                     EAPCO
Evelyn Villatoro        Sr Procurement Spec.           LCSPT


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                 No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                   32                      193.74
  FY03                                     9                      36.59
  FY04                                                             0.48
  FY05                                                             0.00
  FY06                                                             0.00
  FY07                                                             0.00
  FY08                                                             0.00

                       Total:            41                      230.81
Supervision/ICR



                                       28

FY02                       0.00
FY03               7      42.77
FY04              19     131.12
FY05              25     127.61
FY06              23     115.67
FY07              18     102.71
FY08               6      18.13

        Total:     98    538.01




                 29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)


An Overview of the Summative Evaluation Methodology

                                                                    Secondary Data Review (Fund
                                         Operational                Manager + SFMS)
                                         Performance                Process Tracing
                                         Assessment



                                                                     Beneficiary Assessment
         Summative                                                   (Household Survey + Community-
         Evaluation                        Impact                    Based Research)
                                         Assessment
                                                                     Secondary Data Review
                                                                     (Fund Manager + Surveys)


                                        Infrastructure
                                          Evaluation                 Site visits

                                                                     Review of technical documents




The methodology for the Summative Evaluation comprised three elements, each with its
own set of research instruments:

1. An Operational Performance Assessment which evaluated the efficiency and
    effectiveness of JSIF operational management of the NCDP; The team conducted a
    Secondary Data Review by analysing the JSIF's "Fund Manager" and Social Fund
    Management System (SFMS) databases in order to elicit quantitative data. The team
    additionally employed a Process Tracing instrument to elicit qualitative information
    on a selected sub-sample of 6 sub-projects.

2. An Impact Assessment which evaluated the impact of NCDP sub-projects, including
    the perspectives of sub-project beneficiaries, other sub-project stakeholders and
    community residents. The Impact Assessment combined methods, generating both
    quantitative and qualitative data, to evaluate the impact of NCDP subprojects based
    on 2 research instruments: a household survey and a community score card
    administered through focus group and key stakeholder interviews. For the household
    survey, data was collected from 700 households in intervention communities and in
    comparison ("control") communities. A group-based Community Score Card (CSC)
    instrument, along with semi-structured interviews with secondary stakeholders (such
    as health providers and teachers) and with key informants (able to provide an
    objective assessment of processes and impacts). 60 CSC focus group interviews were
    conducted and 102 key informant interviews were held.




                                            30

3. An Infrastructure Evaluation examined the quality and sustainability of physical
    infrastructure. The Infrastructure Evaluation was conducted in a subset of the sampled
    communities receiving NCDP health, education and road infrastructure interventions
    and in comparison ("control") communities, although sample sizes make these results
    indicative. The control communities were selected using a nearest neighbour
    approach. In some cases the control facility had either had rehabilitation work or had
    been constructed within a similar period to the intervention facility.

Sample weighting

Sub projects were selected using a simple random stratified sampling system that
stratified the "universe" of NCDP sub projects by type and by contracting modality,
weighting their significance by (financial) project disbursement before using probability-
based method to select sub projects for evaluation. The evaluation encompassed
education, health and road sector subprojects as they accounted for 97 percent of NCDP's
value of subprojects. The weighting of the NCDP portfolio according to the spread of
(financial) disbursement means that disbursement becomes the key indicator for NCDP
"effort". Based on a list of 189 NCDP sub projects provided by JSIF on Jan 23rd 2008,
which were completed at least 12 months prior to the time of evaluation (i.e. by February
2007), the sample frame included 20 NCDP sub-project recipients and 8 controls
concentrated on education, roads and health projects.

Sampling frame (number of respondents) for Household Survey

                                     CBC     traditional    Ivan        total
 Health                                  50           50          0       100
 Road                                    50           50          0       100
 School                                100           100       100        300
 Comparison ("control")                  75          100        25        200
 communities
 Total                                 275           300       125        700
 treatment                             500
 comparison                            200
Sampling frame for NCDP infrastructure evaluation

               CBC          CBC        Traditional   Traditional Ivan        Total
                            "control"                "control"
Health                  1           1            1             1         n/a          4
Roads                   1          1             1             1         n/a          4
Schools                 1          1             1             1           1          5
Total                   3          3             3             3           1         13


Findings from the Summative Evaluation are presented throughout the ICR text. The ICR
team reviewed in-depth the Summative Evaluation and found significant differences
between the textual write-up and the empirical evidence presented in many cases. Where
there are differences, the ICR takes the empirical data as evidence of main findings.


                                            31

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                     32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                  Jamaica Social Investment Fund (Loan no. 7148-JM)

                 National Community Development Project (NCDP  1)

                           Implementation Completion Report

                                  Borrower's Assessment




Introduction

The following comments serve as an assessment of the Government of Jamaica's
achievements regarding the project design, implementation and operational      experience
in the execution of IBRD loan agreement no. 7148  JM. These comments will reflect on
the lessons learned throughout the implementation of the project.


1. Assessments Project Objective, Design, Implementation and Operation
Experience

1.1     The primary objective of the NCDP was to assist the Government of Jamaica,
        through a fifteen million dollar (US $15,000,000) loan, in offering a continued
        effort in promoting greater social and community development through assistance
        to the poorest of the poor through the provision of basic services and temporary
        employment opportunities.

1.2     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the NCDP made several critical
        assumptions for the conditions of implementation, many which have not held such
        as; economic stability; no major socio / political disruptions during project
        implementation; SDC and other entities will adopt improved community
        development criteria. Although there were critical movements in the political
        environment throughout the period of the Loan, the vicissitudes of the political
        climate had little to no impact on the day-to-day processing and implementation
        of subprojects within the portfolio. On the contrary, the level of improvement in
        community development criteria was not as anticipated, due, in part to lack of
        sustained support by the SDC. The relationship with SDC thus proved
        unsatisfactory, particularly as it pertained to the expected number of subprojects
        that were to benefit from JSIF financing after being identified by SDC in
        Community Development Plans. For instance, only 8% of the total NCDP
        portfolio was eventually financed by JSIF. In contrast, a large percentage (47%)
        of requests received with CDPs, had land issues outstanding. These included
        incomplete or no land documents to support the project applications submitted by



                                             33

    SDC. Other requests received were deemed invalid for not meeting other JSIF
    funding criteria.

1.3 One major assumption, which affected the delivery of subproject interventions in
    the manner prescribed by the appraisal documents, was that of Hurricane Ivan
    which occurred in 2005. The advent of this natural disaster resulted in the
    government reallocation approximately 30% of the loan portfolio to address
    critical areas of infrastructure repair especially in the area of education. Sub-
    Projects that were completed under the Hurricane response did not reflect the full
    intent of the overall project design as strategies related to the capacity building of
    community based organizations were not implemented due to the immediacy of
    the programme.

1.4 This impacted on the staff of the project as much of the projects other resources
    were deployed to ensuring the efficient delivery as part of the disaster response.
    This impact was not as detrimental to the project, however, as overall the project
    made inroads in capacity development in community based organization and there
    is evidence of a willingness to maintain the investments made on the sub-projects
    implemented as part of the hurricane intervention (see Evaluation Report)

1.5 Overcoming any obstacles within the five-year loan period the Government of
    Jamaica has effectively fulfilled most of the obligations to the loan under the
    NCDP with 98% of the portfolio achieving completion and creating
    approximately 3855 temporary employment opportunities (15,420 man months).

1.6 JSIF increased the number of projects financed by identification by Community
    Development Plans by 8%.

1.7 The NCDP varied from previous funding from the Bank as it included explicit
    provisions for the Community Based Contracting Methodology of which
    accounted for 18 % of the project portfolio, hence an increase of the number of
    communities which developed the capacity to select their own priority projects
    and manage project contracting and implementation effectively.

1.8 At least 62% of the subprojects financed through the loan, were targeted quartile 4
    communities. An additional 25% were of quartile 3 ranking, with the remaining
    communities having been captured as `pockets' of poverty. Accordingly, the JSIF
    was able to ensure the inclusion and protection of the poor by improving their
    access to basic amenities within the individual beneficiary communities. Similarly,
    it can be said that a wide range of community priority needs were met based on
    the financing contribution made in as much as 14 different sub-project types.

1.9 JSIF was approached by additional public and private sector organizations
    (DIGICEL Foundation, Red Stripe, Rotary, CHASE, NCB) to manage the
    implementation of similar infrastructure projects that fell within the portfolio of
    the NCDP. These projects accounted for 6% of the NCDP portfolio, evidence of



                                         34

      increased complementary investment generated through JSIF assistance to
      community groups.

1.10  JSIF received `no objections' for all subprojects indicating continued support
      from the required line ministry and / or local authorities. Likewise an Inter-
      Institutional Agreement was signed between JSIF and the SDC on February 4,
      2004, stipulating that the SDC be responsible for conducting maintenance training
      for NCDP sub-project communities. However, the last updated report from the
      SDC on the progress of communities trained and Maintenance committees formed
      by SDC regions was submitted in March 2007. Based on that report:

    - 17% (31) of groups with Maintenance plans and who completed Maintenance
    training;

    - 37% (69%) of groups are still to be trained and formulate Maintenance plans: 17%
    (32) of these already have Maintenance groups formed, though training had not
    initiated; the remaining 20% (37) of groups are scheduled to have their
    Maintenance Committees formed under a Consultancy funded by the World Bank's
    Emergency Relief Project scheduled for the period October 2008 to end of January
    2009 (4 months).

2. Assessments Project Objective, Design, Implementation and Operation
Experience - CBC


2.1   The JSIF was able to implement and complete approximately 96% of the CBC
      portfolio of subprojects within Loan validity period. This approach covered a
      range of sub-project types island-wide, such as basic and all age schools, roads,
      water supply systems, integrated community spaces and health centers.

2.2   Approximately 85% of subprojects were completed within budget, with the
      remaining 15% experiencing cost overruns. Cost variations were experienced due
      to a number of factors such as natural disasters; and the cement crisis prolonged
      implementation periods making the projects vulnerable to increased cost of
      materials and inflation;.

2.3   A particular benefit realized through the CBC methodology is the savings to costs
      on approximately 30% [16] of the subprojects financed. The majority of savings
      [19%] was gained by subprojects utilizing the CBC Model 1 where PMCs fully
      executed the construction works, in addition to having hired and managed the
      labourers for the project. Savings were realized under Model 2 and 3 also ranging
      from 8% and 5% respectively.

2.4   Due to the late development of a CBC portfolio of projects in addition to the time
      spent edifying itself on this methodology; the JSIF had certain challenges finding
      a fit for CBC projects under its regular modus operandi. As a result, the time



                                          35

    constraint met in having this component implemented, forced the JSIF to
    circumvent the project cycle to ensure that the CBC component could coincide
    with the time and disbursement deliverables committed to in the Loan Agreement.
    For instance the formulation of projects was moved to post board approval with
    an approval of the sub-projects being granted on a general cost estimate according
    to the sub-project type and scope of works to be done. While this approach proved
    an advantage in advancing the pace of implementing the subprojects, certain
    problems were realized through cost increases by understating the initial estimates
    in costs at the Board Approval level.

2.5 The quality of construction work delivered and management of funds under CBC
    proved comparative to traditionally implemented sub-projects. However, the
    value added to this approach is evident in the achievement of communities to
    implement this level of quality and management on their own.

2.6 CBC proved to be an effective community development tool considering the
    development of skills that were otherwise lacking in the communities prior to the
    intervention. Through considerable training, communities were empowered
    through their leadership groups, which were strengthened by becoming legal
    entities, thereby reducing the risk of sustaining their management of the
    completed facilities at post implementation. The training received in basic
    fiduciary management and procurement procedures helped to build the
    sustainable skills of the community. Other benefits cited by beneficiaries included
    the capacity building of PMC members (eg. in leadership, management skills,
    bookkeeping skills and communication skills). The added project experience has
    served to make them more self-reliant and capable of initiating other development
    projects on their own. The technical skills base of the community also grew based
    on the hands-on training received on site. Some labourers also seized the
    opportunity to become certified or upgrade their skills levels thereby adding value
    to the skills base at the community level. For example, approximately six (6)
    persons in twenty-one (21) projects have become masons as a result of the project.

2.7 CBC contracts were valuable given that they allowed community management to
    sub contract local skilled labour. This alleviated the problem of communities
    hiring contractors who failed to capitalize on community-based skilled labour, to
    avoid the risks for non-delivery or poor quality work.

2.8 The low input of the SDC in maintenance training of the NCDP beneficiary
    communities set the JSIF back in meeting its commitment within the stated
    Project period under NCDP. Resources had to be spent on building the capacity of
    SDC to administer the training. However, their lack of staffing proved to be a
    shortfall in meeting the target of Maintenance Committees to be formed and
    trained. The JSIF was therefore not able to meet the output targets of project
    appraisal.




                                         36

2.9  As much as 27% of CBC subprojects were able to attract complementary
     investments as a result of the assistance received from JSIF. 10% were able to
     generate income, as well as attract additional funding assistance; 12% were able
     to strengthen their technical and management capacity by partnering with service
     clubs to implement their JSIF funded project; and 6% were able to benefit from
     equipping and fencing of their subprojects by donations from the private sector.


3. Lessons Learnt  CBC


3.1  The Project commenced with a sensitization session held with the NGO
     community on the CBC methodology and the JSIF criteria for funding under this
     model. The attraction to the NGO community was a means of qualifying the need
     to have legal entities implement the sub-projects with a sustainable factor. The
     proposals submitted by the majority of NGOs however ranged from being too
     ambitious, not meeting funding criteria or were not technically feasible. The shift
     was subsequently made to source sub-project applications from the pool of
     demand-driven applications already registered at JSIF. Although the screening of
     these applications to assess their appropriateness for CBC took time, further work
     had to be done at the community level to sensitize and assess the capacity of
     CBOs to manage a CBC-type project. A CBC Capacity Assessment tool for
     CBOs was thus designed and an allowance of time had to be advanced to the
     CBOs giving them a chance to collectively evaluate their own ability and
     willingness to use this community development approach. Consequently the
     `teething' phase of CBC saw some projects initially being appraised for CBC, but
     later being converted to traditional type sub-projects because of the emerging
     inability of some CBOs and communities to manage the demands of this approach.

3.2  The governance of the CBOs was realized through collaboration with the
     Department of Cooperatives and Friendly Societies. CBOs were trained, assessed
     and became legally registered as Benevolent or Cooperative Societies given the
     nature of their sub-project type. This partnership not only allowed CBOs to
     benefit from a CBC type sub-project, but it also served as means of mitigating the
     risk to sustainability of these subprojects and by extension, to the funding
     investment made through this Project, as the CBOs have a long-term
     accountability to the governing authority of the DCFS.

3.3  The cost ceiling for CBC projects at USD 100,000 was reasonable for subproject
     allocation as this reduced the responsibility of the PMCs to manage complex
     project types. For instance, some cost variations, which emerged during
     implementation stemmed from the need to widen the scope of works, as the initial
     estimate of works to be done could have been understated to ensure that simple
     solutions were implemented. Hence, the increased scope of works meant that
     projects were technically compounded, usually beyond the ability of Project




                                          37

    Management Committees to supervise the works and manage the expenses
    incurred.

3.4 Implementing a CBC project required a multifaceted training approach with
    considerable input of time and resources from the JSIF staff. For this reason, a
    team of staff members exclusively assigned to CBC projects became necessary to
    ensure that beneficiary communities received continuous training and technical
    assistance throughout the development of their respective subprojects. The failure
    and difficulties encountered with some projects particularly in the earlier phase of
    the Project can also be attributed to the lack of hands-on monitoring applied by
    JSIF. For example, most PMCs neither had the technical expertise to supervise
    construction activities nor the know-how to properly manage a Contractor or
    Foreman. Although a Terms of Reference was developed to assist the community
    in understanding the difference in roles of the PMC and foreman, this did not
    make up for the lack of technical supervision of the project. The hiring of Site
    Supervisors apart from technical officers at JSIF allowed technical staff to focus
    on the administrative issues for the project, while site supervisors were able to
    provide hands-on technical field assistance to PMCs. The placement of a CBC
    Officer ensured that the training needs of PMCs were continually re-assessed
    throughout the implementation of the project and that the training gaps were filled
    where necessary. This role also served as a control factor to ensure that CBC
    procedures were being adhered to and were properly administered by the PMCs.

3.5 The manipulation of the project cycle to accommodate CBC projects proved to be
    beneficial in reducing project implementation timelines. However, the
    organizations ran the risk of practicing due diligence as certain adjustments to the
    institutional arrangements and procedures were not made to adequately support
    CBC. Although these support systems were developed during the course of the
    Project, more preparation and planning at the design stage of the Project should
    have been conducted in an effort to examine the implications of this methodology
    against the standard institutional composition of JSIF.

3.6 The lack of adequate technical expertise and resources within a community
    proved to thwart the ability of PMCs to proficiently and independently execute
    their project. Moreover, given the complex technical nature of the subprojects, the
    introduction of external supervisors hired by JSIF to support the PMCs became
    crucial as a measure of control for JSIF to facilitate the achievement of the
    technical outcomes of the sub-projects. Communities were also encouraged to
    partner with service groups operating in their region such the Rotary Club, where
    the technical expertise and resources usually available to these groups, could be
    used to assist the PMCs in effectively executing their project with limited reliance
    on the JSIF. This approach also helped to alleviate project management costs for
    JSIF hiring external supervisors to monitor the work of PMCs and Contractors on
    the ground.




                                         38

3.7  The defects liability period was reduced for CBC projects from the traditional 6
     months to 3 months during the course of the Project. This proved essential as
     PMCs, having the more hands-on reach in executing the works and controlling the
     funds, had the opportunity to address defects in a shorter space of time, based on
     the immediate resources available to them in the community to correct problems
     as they arose. Most PMCs were able to correct the problems soon after the defects
     list was prepared by the JSIF Site Supervisor, thereby curtailing the extensive
     time before final completion could be granted.

3.8  The failed partnership with SDC in the delivery of maintenance training has
     forced the JSIF to take steps to strengthen the maintenance component of the
     Loan, in addition to the quality of training of this kind. The JSIF will have more
     control over the quality of training delivered to its beneficiary communities by
     being solely responsible for ensuring the training of its sub-project communities
     in addition to improving the content of the training material to make the
     intervention more sustainable and have community facilities more resistant
     natural disasters.

4. Evaluation of Borrower's own performance and lessons learned (general)

4.1  Though JSIF was unable to secure it's footing through many attempts during the
     Implementation of the project on the Maintenance Training for the Portfolio, a
     Maintenance Programme is now being undertaken through funding from the ERL
      Hurricane Dean for the NCDP project Portfolio.

4.2  JSIF being cognizant of the fact that Maintenance is of particular importance
     institutionalized a Technical Review Committee to ensure that the quality of work
     being produced from consultants was up to standards. This Committee was
     instrumental in ensuring that designs were revised to use maintenance friendly
     designs and materials as much as possible.

4.3  JSIF should have taken a harder line in terminating nonperforming contractors
     over the implementation period as in affording contractors additional time caused
     unnecessary delays in the implementation of the project, which was then
     compounded with a general lag in timeline deliverables due to the Cement
     Shortage experienced in the construction industry in 2006 when implementation
     was at its peak.

4.4  Though the Technical Review Committee aided in identifying possible variations
     to the project due to incomplete formulations and was able to mitigate against
     these practices by having consultants present the project, JSIF would have
     benefited from adhering to industry practices and building in a contingency within
     the project cost so as to reduce additional time delays during implementation as
     the approval process for variations under 15% were tedious.




                                          39

4.5   Of utmost importance to the operational practices of JSIF was ensuring a strong
      commitment to Environmental Assessment and Monitoring. An environmental
      evaluation of projects in implementation was carried out at the end of year two of
      the loan and it found that " in general the projects all appear to be well executed
      with apparent active stakeholder participation and consequently a reasonably
      strong commitment to ensuring sustainability".

4.6   Geared towards the satisfaction of the Community, Project Information Meetings
      (PIMs) were revamped during the early stages of the NCDP and used not only to
      inform the wider community of the upcoming project, but also to engage the
      Contractor within the community as well as the External Supervisor. It was a
      useful forum to ensure that the community solicited amongst themselves an
      Employment Coordinator and understood that they owned this project.

4.7   Subproject implementation timelines improved due to the addition of site
      supervisors hired to monitor supervision projects not withstanding impeding
      factors such as hurricanes, tropical storms, as well as an industry wide affected
      cement shortage and general contractor liquidity.

5. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank and lessons learned

5.1   The WB and JSIF worked together well as a team in the fiduciary management of
      the project and managed to build a very good working relationship while
      exchanging feedback on ways to improve effectiveness. Although there were
      changes in the bank staff during the period of the loan this did not impact
      negatively on the quality of support offered to us. For example, the processing of
      Statements of expenditure which were sent to the bank to effect disbursements,
      were for the most part done in a timely manner resulting in the project
      maintaining adequate cash flow for its operations.


6. Indicating its proposed arrangements for future project operation, and defining
with the Bank the performance indicators to be used to monitor future operation
and development impact

6.1   In assessing the overall achievements of the NCDP, the Government of Jamaica
      notes the contribution of the project in developing the local infrastructure and
      enhancing the capacity of communities to manage and contribute to their overall
      development programme. It is noted also that the project ably assisted in the
      achievement of the Government's reconstruction efforts after the devastation of
      Hurricane Ivan and the negative impact of that disaster on the Education
      infrastructure, which is essential for the sustained development of the Country.

6.2   The Government is also of the opinion that the investment of the project created
      value in poor, underserved communities across the island, addressing the




                                            40

     immediate needs of the communities with new and effective approaches to
     community based involvement and participation.

6.3  Given this assessment, and the success of participatory approaches to small
     development projects; the use of similar strategies such as those employed in the
     NCDP should be examined for other types of investment that have greater impacts
     at the local levels. Such investments should include areas related to community
     based tourism and agriculture where there is a need for high levels of consensus
     building and social capital development.

6.4  Critical capacity assessment of all institutions involved in the implementation of
     the project should be undertaken at the appraisal stage of the project. This
     assessment should not only look at the fiduciary obligations of the institutions, but
     should also assess the synergies and the expectations for delivery against their
     current capacity.    These assessments should also provide a `road map' for
     capacity development and posit strategies for creating effective partnerships.

6.5  Based on the internal assessment of the CBC interventions, there is a link between
     communities with high levels of social capital stock and the relative success of the
     project interventions. Communities with low levels of social capital and high
     levels of fragmentation have less benefits being accrued as a cause of any
     intervention.     It is therefore recommended that if CBC is to be used in
     communities that are assessed as highly fragmented; a social intervention action
     plan be implemented to address these issues before the investment is made. This
     action will improve the success rate of the project in that there will be higher
     levels of participation in the investment and greater levels of commitment to the
     goals and objectives of the project.

6.6  Further examination should be made of the use technology for infrastructure
     development where more model solutions are provided for the needs of
     communities.     This should result in reduced response times for investments,
     which were a major concern in communities as outlined in the beneficiary
     assessment.


7. Indicators


7.1  There should be a clear indication of the baselines that are being used for the
     assessment of the project. The NCDP had no baseline data to which there could
     be suitable comparisons made regarding the success of the project.             It is
     recommended that future demand driven projects establish baseline data for
     critical success indicators, in order to determine the effectiveness of project
     outcomes.




                                          41

7.2 For demand driven subproject intervention, indicators that relate to the
    implementation of comprehensive social programmes should not be used to assess
    sub-project success.     An example of this is the use of crime statistics and
    economic development indicators. These should be abandoned for indicators that
    relate to social cohesion and improvements in access to basic services. Higher-
    level impact indicators should therefore relate to the perceptions of community
    and that of social capital development at the community and national levels.

7.3 It is recommended that more indicators that assess the development of Civil
    Society and the ability of communities to advocate for improvements in their area
    be incorporated in projects that have a high CDD involvement.              For future
    projects interventions, the ability of community based organizations to maintain
    the investments will be impacted by their ability to raise capital, however,
    improvements in advocacy skills, will enhance their link with key state agencies
    and should increase their ability to channel resources to their communities to
    address maintenance needs. This investment in advocacy, it is believed, should
    enhance the communities' ability to sustain the investments over longer periods.

7.4 Indicators that test the validity, efficiency and effectiveness of key partnerships in
    project implementation should be incorporated as a part of the lower level output
    indicators of the project. The need for constant review and revisions to existing
    relationships is important to project success, as there are constant changes in the
    project environment. As such the project management should have a mechanism
    to measure the standards of performance of key stakeholders so as to make the
    necessary management adjustments using the best evidenced based practices that
    may be provided.




                                           42

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments on ICR submitted by Dr. Edwin Gutierrez, Senior Economist, Operations
Management        Dept.,    The     OPEC       Fund     for    International  Development

(1) Implementation capacity. It is fair to say that JSIF has demonstrated it has capacity to
implement community development projects. However, in view of the range of
shortcomings faced by JSIF during the implementation of the NCDP, it is clear that this
capacity needs to be supported by technical assistance from major donor institutions.

(2) Lessons learned. The choice of JSIF as the primary implementing entity for the
project allows lessons learned from community-based projects to be incorporated in
subsequent operations.

(3) Participatory approach to projects. The experience with NCDP has reinforced the
success of the participatory approach to small development projects. Indeed, the sub-
projects under NDCP were requested by the communities, were primarily executed by
CBOs, NGOs and small-medium private contractors using locally available inputs and
simple construction technology. The completed projects, in turn, provided the
communities with better services including health, sanitation, education and basic
economic (rehabilitation of feeder roads) and production (i.e., rehabilitation of agro-
processing facilities) infrastructure.

(4)Participatory planning mechanisms. NCDP has demonstrated the importance of
participatory planning mechanisms. Indeed, a particularly important shortcoming in
NCDP was the relative absence of such mechanisms at the beginning of the project in
order to enhance community ownership and harness, empower and guide political/social
energy, all in order to better accomplish the objectives of NCDP.

(5) Maintenance and operations. While it is important to achieve the physical outputs
under NCDP, it seems to be necessary to emphasize the post-construction stage. That is,
the issue of maintenance planning and execution should has been given a greater profile
within the subprojects implemented under NCDP, in order to support operational
sustainability in the longer term, after the project has finished.

(6) Financial execution. Overall, the different auditing reports of JSIF and of NCDP
financial statements, showed that JSIF has a suitable organizational structure and follows
appropriate administrative and financial practices. However, there is room to improve
some of JSIF's operational procedures and practices. For instance, i) management should
take the necessary steps to ensure that all project variation orders are reviewed and
approved on a timely basis and that there is evidence of approval, ii) management should
ensure that the Annex Report use to monitor projects undertaken by JSIF is updated on a
timely manner by responsible personnel, iii) a fixed assets register should be maintained
showing important information of each asset, and assets should be physically verified
periodically and their condition verified. Adjustments should be made in the register to
eliminate assets no longer in existence or those that can no longer be used.



                                              43

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


National Community Development Program (NCDP) Project Appraisal Document

JSIF Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework

JSIF Operations Manual Revised March 2006

JSIF Operations Manual (Annexes) Revised March 2006

JSIF Funding Guide

JSIF Environmental Management Framework

Inner City Basic Project (ICBSP) Project Appraisal Document

"Phase One Report: Environmental Screening and Supervision of 37 JSIF Projects Under
Implementation" Prepared for the Jamaica Social Investment Fund, TEMN Technological
and Environmental Management Network, Ltd. January 2005.

"Summative Evaluation of the JSIF National Community Development Project  Final
Report", Oxford Policy Management, UK, June 2008.

Internal World Bank Documents:

All NCDP PSR/ISRs and supervision mission Aide Memoires

NCDP Financial Management Supervision Report June 27-28, 2005

NCDP Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review, January 2006




                                          44

45

