Dockunt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repxt No. 9962
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1414-MAU)
OCTOBER 7, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Departmlent
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit: Ouguiya (UM)
Per US$ 1.00
Appraisal Date (Nov 1982) s  47 UM
Average over Project Duration 1985-1989 s 77 UM
Closing Year (1990)   s 81 UM
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Coop4ration Economique (French Aid Agency)
CP          Cellule de Planification du MDR (Planning Unit at MDR)
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France), French Development Fund
MDR         Ministere du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
PCR         Programme de Consolidation et de Relance
(1989-91 Structural Adjustment Program)
PREF        Programme de redressement Economique et financier
(1985-88 Structural Adjustment Program)
SONADER     Societe Nationale Developpement Rural (National Agency for Rural
Development)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



THE WORLD SANK                 FOR OMCaL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
4t.e n0 OweCtr.CVfdai
October 7, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mauritania
Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Prolect (Cr. 1414-MAU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mauritania - Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1414-MAU)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has  reaticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in th perfonce
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World ank autorztion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1414-MAU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  ....................................................                                          i
Evaluation  Summary  .........................................                                      iii
PART I            PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                               1
Project  Identity  ........................................                                   1
Background  ..............................................                                    1
Project  Objectives  and  Description  ......................                                 2
Project  Objectives  ....................................                                  2
Components .............    2
Project  Design  and  Organization  .........................                                 3
Project  Implementation  ..................................                                   3
Project  Results  .........................................                                   4
SONADER  ...............................................                                   4
MDR  ...................................................                                   5
Project  Sustainability  ..................................                                   6
Bank  Performance  ........................................                                   6
Borrower  Performance  ....................................                                   7
Project  Relationship  ....................................                                   7
Consulting  Services  .....................................                                   7
Project  Documentation  and Data  ..........................                                  7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                             Pane No.
PART II      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                    9
PART I'I    STATISTIC.... INFORMATION                                     13
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .13
2. Project Timetable .16
3.    Credit Disbursemwents ...                               *           17
4.  Project Implementation .18
5.  Project Costs and Financing    ..18
A. Pro'act Costs .18
B. Project Financing .19
6.  Project Results - Studies .20
7.    Status of Covenants ..................... ..                        21
8. Use of Bank Resources .25
A. Staff Inputs .25
B. Missions .26
ANNEX 1 - Counterpart Funding .................................           27
Map IBRD No. 23095



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1414-MAU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rural Sector
Technical Assistance Project in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, for which
Credit 1414-MAU in the amount of SDR 7.4 million (US$ 8.1 million equivalent)
was approved on October 4, 1983. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1990, two
years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement (to
recover the special account) was on December 4, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of
the Sahelian Department of the Africa Region, and the Borrower (Part II).
FAC (cofinanciers) have been invited to provide comments on the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a completion mission of the
project in October 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the preparation report;
the President's Report; the Development Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1414-MAU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    This  project  was  a  follow-up  to  the  (first)  SONADER  Technical
Assistance Project, which was a three-year project designed to build SONADER
- the National Ag,ncy for Rural Development - into a strong agency capable of
preparing and implementing agricultural projects along the Senegal River
Valley.   This second pr'ject was designed to provide continued technical
assistance and training to SONADER but also technical assistance and training
to strengthen the planning and policy-making capability of the Planning Unit
in the Ministry of Rural Development.
2.    The project aimed to (a) palliate the shortage of technical staff, (b)
provide the professional training essential to SONADER's institutional
consolidation, (c) strengthen SONADER as a rural development executing
agency, and (d) assist with the development of the Planning Unit of MDR to
prepare coherent development policies and strategies to deal with the issues
impairing the country's agricultural production and rural development.
Project components were:
(1)   strengthening SONADER through a three-year technical
assistance program (management, finance, irrigation, agricultural
economics, credit - 21 staff-years), short-term consultant
services (final design and preparation of bidding documents for
a new building to establish SONADER's headquarters, feasibility
studies, project support - 125 staff-months), in-service and
formal training and the provision of vehicles, laboratory and
office equipment; and
(2)   strengthening the Planning Unit of MDR through a three-year
technical assistance program (agricultural economics, irrigation,
finance - 9 staff-years), short-term consultant services
(institutional development, sectoral analysis - 52 staff-months),
in-service and formal training and provision of vehicles and
office equipment.



- iv -
ImRlementation Experience
3.    The project was appraised in November 1981 and approved .n October
1983.   Board presentation was delayed until almost eleven months after
negotiations due to Government's inaLility to provide counterpart funding for
SONADER, the main executing agency ot the project. After four reschedulings,
the project became effective in February 1985, eleven months after the target
effectiveness date.  Start-up or che SONADER component, after the initial
effectiveness delays, was fairly .apid, partly because many of the advisers
recruited under the first project were retained.   Start-up of the MDR
Planning Unit component was slowar, as the Unit did not exist prior to the
Project. The head of the Planning Unit was recruited in February 1985, but
the remaining key staff were nct recruited until end-1986. The project was
plagued by delays in receiving Government counterpart funds, and some studies
origirally envisaged had to be financed under other IDA credits or
elim4..sated.
Results
4.    Technical Assistance:  The Project provided about 36 staff-years of
long-term technical assistance and abouit 18 staff-months of short-term
techn&cal assistance, thus palliating the 3evere shortage of tschnical staff.
Most of the resident technical assistance staff financed by the project made
significant contributions to the institutional development of SONADER and the
Planning Unit of MDR. The resident technical assistance staff provided on-
the-job training as part of their terms of reference, and by the end of the
project several units at SONADER which had been headed by expatriate
technical assistants prior to the project were headed by competent,
Mauritanian staff. This was an important result of the project.
5.    Trainina:  Professional training, apart from the on-the-job training
provided by the resident technical asaistants, was neglected during the
project. The training program planned at appraisal as the prerequisite to a
viable human resource development program never materialized; given the
scarcity of Mauritanian staff, Government was reluctant to release staff for
professional training.   Those who were on the job did receive valuable
training but the lack of in-depth training to be given to larger numbers was
an important failing of the project.
6.    SONADER:  Under the Project SONADER implemented the first phase of its
restructuring program, giving more autonomy to regional offices, reducing
staff, and introducing improved cost recovery procedures. SONADER which had
been in severe financial difficulties prior to the project was financially
rehabilitated  through   increased  donors'   contributions,   Government's
liquidation of SONADER's outstanding debt and increased budgetary support to
SONADER,  and reduction of SONADER's operating costs.   SONADER took the
preliminary steps to disengage from its plethora of activities (credit, input
provision, repair shop activities, and plannitig and formulation of rural
sector policy) in order to concentrate its efforts on executing rural
development projects.  A draft decree amending SONADER's statutes to make
procurement procedures less cumbersome was prepared, but was not approved
during the project implementation period. Overall, SONADER was



v 
greatly strengthened as a rural development executing agency under the
project.
7.    Planning Unit of MDR:  The Planning Unit of MDR was created under the
project to: formulate agricultural and rural development policies, review
the functions of each MDR department and public agency under its supervision,
prepare MDR's annual investment budget, and coordinate activities of MDR and
rural  sector related activities of other institutions.   All  of these
objectives were met to some extent; however at the end of the project, the
Planning Unit was unable to take the lead role in formulating agricultural
and rural development policies and recommending improvements in the
organization and manpower planning of MDR and the rural sector development
agencies. The Planning Unit took the lead role in coordinating four key
sector studies: cereals marketing and pricing, master plan for agricultural
development of the Senegal Valley Right Bank, the master plan for developing
small dams and water harvesting throughout the country, and the first phase
study on the organization of MDR. The Planning Unit also coordinated the
preparation, monitoring and evaluation of the agricultural components of the
various structural adjustment programs (PREF, PCR, and the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit).    It produced the  first inventory of rural
development projects in Mauritania and set up a computerized data base with
key information about each project. It recruited a Mauritanian computer
specialist who trained data entry and management staff to operate the
computers purchased -under the project. The Planning Unit prepared and
monitored the consolidated investment budget of MDR from 1987 to 1991.
Despite all this good work, the Planning Unit was unable to attract and
retain the critical mass of Mauritanian staff necessary for it to exercize
the lead role in policy formulation.
Sustainabilitv
8.    Project activities were timely, necessary, and played a vital role as
the precursor to the reforms envisaged under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit. Had efforts to restructure SONADER and MDR not begun
under the Second Rural Technical Assistance Project, it would have been
difficult to attempt the major reforms proposed in the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit. Both SONADER and the Planning Unit of MDR continue to
function at the end of the Project. SONADER is more able to function without
continuad long-term expatriate assistance and funds from the project, whereas
the Planning Unit, a much newer and smaller entity, still relies heavily on
two long-term expatriate advisers financed by FAC and external financing.
The sustainability of the Planning Unit is not yet assured; it requires more
staff and increased, and more timely, government financing.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    The  Second  Rural  Technical  Assistance  Project  has  provided  the
following lessons.
- Consulting services provided by the project were well-received by
the Borrower, possibly because many of the technical assistants
had been recruited under the first T.A. project, and possibly
because they were recruited for specific technical services



- vi -
(engineering, finance, etc.).  There were, however, no specific
performance criteria by which to monitor and evaluate
consultants' performance. In future technical assistance
projects, the Bank should work with the Borrower to ensure that
an adequate performance kevaluation system, clearly understood by
all parties, is t,isciissei during preparation/appraisal and put
into place before proje- implementation.
Although on-the-job training was quite successful, the formal
training component never materialized. In future projects, the
training component should be geared to a realistic assessment of
the lixelihood of finding qualified trainees, and the preparationi
of the training program should be an upfront condition so that
the program could be in place before implementation begins,
rather than a dated covenant in the Credit Agreement. In cases of
acute scarcity of qualified trainees, the appropriate training
program will consist of on-the-job training for those who are
already on the job and cannot afford to be released; basic
training to increase the number of qualified trainees would have
to be tackled through a wider manpower development program, not
through a technical assistance project.
Government's failure to provide counterpart funding in a timely
manner led to SONADER's overspending the amounts allocated to it
and resulted in the credit being exhausted without the knowledge
of the P':.nning Unit.  In future projects involving two executing
agencies, each with power to sign withdrawal applications, a
closer watch should be kept on the amounts allocated to each
agency so that one agency is not left with unpaid bills at the
end of the project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1414-MAU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name        : Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.  : 1414-MAU
RVP Unit    : Africa Aegion
Country     : Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Sector      : Agriculture
2.    BackGround
2.01.1            The Government's development strategy in the 1980's called
for a transfer of resources to those activities which constituted a renewable
base for economic growth,  namely,  irrigated agriculture,  livestock and
fisheries, and a shift of investments from industry and transport towards the
rural sector with the objectives of maintaining sustainable growth,
generating rural employment and red c.ng Mauritania's heavy reliance on
imported food. To resolve the basic problem of manpower, Government sought
technical assistance and financial assistance from several external sources
to train agricultural experts and support the sector's public a'encies.
2.02          The Bank pursued an active macroeconomic and sector dialogue
aimed at (a) helping the Government in developing the country's scarce
natural resources so as to broaden the economic base and achieve a modest but
sustained growth in the agricultural sector; (b) improving mechanisms for
investment programming and project selection, in order to optimize the
allocation of resources and avoid poor investments in the rural sector; (c)
helping Government make the best possible use of foreign technical
assistance; (d) assisting in monitoring macroeconomic performance and in
improving the design and execution of the overall development program; and
(e) reducing the heavy budget.ry burden created by existing financial
policies in the agricultural sector. Bank lending in the agricultural sector
was designad to support Government's stated development strategy and focussed
on irrigation development (Small Scale Irrigation Project, Cr. 1571-MAU) and
livestock (Second Livestock Project, Cr. 1658-AAU).
2.03        The (first) SONADER Technical Assistance Project.  The SONADER
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 694-MAU) was approved by the Executive
Directors in March 1977. It was a three-year technical assistance project
proposed as a first step of a plan designed to build SONADER into a strong
agency capable of preparing and implementing agricultural projects along the
Senegal River Valley.   The project consisted of:  (i) strengthening the
organizational structure of SONADER with a technical assistance team of seven
expatriate staff and seven Mauritanian experts; (ii) providing short-term
consultant  services  to  carry  out  specific  studies  on  technical,



2
organizational and training topics, including new studies for the preparation
of tie Gorgol Irrigation Project; (iii) providing the necessary office,
drawing and topographic materials and equipment as well as vehicles to permit
SONADER to operate efficiently under the project.   The Project Completion
Report for the SONADER Technical Assistance Project concludes that the
project had a positive impact on institution building and largely contributed
to reinforce SONADER's efficiency and ability to prepare and execute
irrigation and rural development projects. However, at the end of the first
project, SONADER's financial management still needed to be improved, and more
emphasis needed to placed on training of local staff.
2.04        The Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Proiect.   A PPF
advance of 1750,000 was approved in March 1982 and a second PPF advance of
$250,000 was approved in September 1983 to continue the finiancing of
technical assistance staff recruited under the first project.  The Second
Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1414-MAU) was approved by the
Executive Directors in October 1983, and became effective in February 1985.
It was a response to the need to follow up on the first technical assistance
project by providing (i) technical assistance and training to strengthen
SGNADER, particularly its newly created Financial Management Control Unit;
and (ii) technical assistance and training to strengthen MDR's planning and
policy-making capability.
3.    Prolect Objectives and Description
3.01        Proiect 'biectives.  The project continued IDA's participation in
the common effort of several donors to build up Mauritania's rural
development capacity. The Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project
retained the objectives of the preceding operation, which was intended to (a)
palliate the shortage of technical staff and (b) provide the professional
training that was essential to SONADER's institutional consolidation. The
second project was broader in scope as it also aimed to: (c) strengthen
SONADER as a rural development executing agency, and (di assist with the
development of the Planning Unit of MDR to prepare coherent development
policies and strategies to deal with the issues impairing the country's
agricultural production and rural development.    The project achieved its
objectives concerning the provision of technical assistance and the
strengthening of SONADER, had mixed results with assisting the Planning Unit
of MDR, and failed to provide formal training for either SONADER or the
Planning Unit of MDR.
3.02        Components.  The three-year project as appraised had two main
components:
(a)   strengthening SONADER through a financial and technical
assistance  program  (management,  finance,  irrigation,
agricultural economics, credit - 21 man-years), short-term
consultant services (final design and preparation of
bidding documents for a new building to establish SONADER's
headquarters, feasibility studies, project support - 125
man-months), in-service and formal training, and the
provision of vehicles, laboratory and office equipment.
(b)   strengthening the Planning Unit of MDR through a financial
and tehnical assistance program (agricultural economics,
irrigation, finance - 9 staff-years), short-term consultant



3
services (institutional development, sectoral analysis - 52
staff-months), in-service and formal training, and
provision of vehicles and office equipment.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01        The project was designed and prepared based on findings of the
first Technical Assistance to SONADER project and on a report prepared by a
consultant. It was designed to be executed by two entities, each with its
own work program and budget and authority to disburse project funds.   In
retrospect, it seems that the SONADER component, possibly because it was
based on experience gained under the first Technical Assistance project was
better designed and prepared than the MDR component. Moreover, SONADER was
an agency already experienced in executing IDA projects.   The following
comments were made by AGR during the review of the initial project brief: (i)
SONADER is described as overburdened with activities, yet the project
proposes to provide 16 foreign experts over a broad spectrum of activities;
(ii) the Bank should be very clear as to what it expects the project to
achieve rather than leaving t}.is to be developed by teams of consultants;
(iii) the project brief indicates doubts as to Government's commitment to
financial participation in the project, and whether anything could be
achieved that would be self-sustaining.
4.02        The appraisal mission,  originally planned for June 1981 was
postponed to November 1981 to allow time for Government to reflect on what
should be included in the component to strengthen the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) through the creation of a Planning Unit.   From the start
there was confusion between the Bank and the Borrower as to the role of the
Planning Unit.   The Bank envisaged the role of the Planning Unit as
conceptualizing and policy formulating, whereas the Government tended to rely
on the Planning U.ait as an executing agency for specific tasks and studies.
The Planning Unit had no official rank in the MDR hierarchy, and although the
Planning Unit Head was considered to be of the same rank as the Directors of
Agriculture, Livestock and Protection of Natural Resources, he had no actual
leverage to influence the directors.
4.03        Summary terms of reference for key staff were included in the
Annex to the President's Memorandum; the general terms of reference clearly
specified that all advisers would be assigned the task of training their
Mauritanian counterparts, in accordance with the Training Program to be
prepared during the first year of project implementation by consultants hired
for that specific purpose. Terms of reference for the training consultant
did not appear in the Annex, and this component appears to have received
little attention during identification and preparation.  In retrospect, it
would have been preferable to require the elaboration of the training program
as a condition of credit negotiations or board approval rather than as a
dated covenant during the first year of project implementation.
5.    Proiect ImlIementation
5.01        The project was appraised in November 1981 and approved in
Cstober 1983.   Board presentation did not take place until almost eleven
months after negotiations due to Government's inability to provide
counterpart funding for SONADER, the main executing agency of the project.



4
Credit effectiveness, which was originally set for March 1984, was
rescheduled four times because Government was unable Lo meet its financial
commitment to SONADER. The Credit finally became effective in February 1985,
almost one year after the target effectiveness date. The essential obstacle
in each case of delay was the financial viability of SONADER, which was a
covenant of the Credit Agreement.   In the period between negotiations and
effectiveness, repeated donors' meetings were held in an attempt to formulate
a financial rehabilitation plan for SONADER and to obtain firm commitments
from Government and the donors to cover the UM 370 million additional
requirements of SONADER.   The Development Credit Agreement was amended
immediately after effectiveness to reduce the technical assistance component,
create a new disbursement category for SONADER operations, and add a covenant
for the quarterly deposit of Government's financial contribution to the
project.    The  project  was  plagued  by  delays  in receiving  Government
counterpart funds, which sometimes necessitated telexes from the Bank
threatening to suspend disbursements.   Counterpart funds were eventually
provided, and SONADER staff have indicated that these delays were not
critical to project progress.   As a result of Government's delays  in
providing counterpart funds to SONADER, SONADER overspent its allocation
under the IDA Credit and deprived the Planning Unit of funds that were
allocated to it.  Some of the studies envisaged had to be financed under
other IDA credits or eliminated.
5.02        SONADER.  Start-up for the SONADER component, after the initial
credit effectiveness delays, was fairly rapid, partly because many of the
advisers recruited under the first project were retained.          The Project
financed 378 staff-months of long-term technical assistance and 18.5 staff-
months of short-term consultants, thirteen vehicles, office equipment and
furniture and laboratory equipment and operating costs.
5.03        Planning Unit of MDR.  Start-up of the MDR component was much
slower, as the unit did not exist within MDR prior to the project and had to
be created.   The Planning Unit was officially established by decree of
January 1984.  The head of the Planning Unit was appointed in February of
1985, but the remaining key staff were not recruited until end-1986. The
Project financed 60 staff-months of long-term technical assistance, vehicles,
office equipment and furniture.
6.    Proiect Results
6.01 SONADER: Under the Project, the first phase restructuring of SONADER
was implemented, giving more autonomy to regional offices, reducing staff and
introducing improved cost recovery procedures.   Specific accomplishments
during the project include:
(a) SONADER, which had been in severe financial difficulties, was
financially rehabilitated by (i) reduction of its operating costs, (ii)
donors' contributions and (iii) the Government's budgetary allocation and
transfer of the necessary funds to cover the operating deficit;
(b) Major staff reductions were implemented.   Mauritanian staff was
reduced from. 550 in 1987 to 372 in 1990/91. Expatriate technical assistance
staff was reduced from 52 in December 1987 to 36 in May 1988, to only
project-specific staff in 1991.



5
(c) The Management and ContrDl Unit created under the first Technical
assistance to SONADER project was strengthened with an expatriate adviser and
a Mauritanian deputy.   By the end of the Second Rural Sector Technical
Assistance Project the Control Unit was functioning competently without
expatriate technical assistance.
(d) The Department of Administration and Finance (DAF) was strengthened
by consultant services.   Since 1988 SONADER has produced a consolidated
budget, and by the end of the project the DAF was functioning without
expatriate technical assistance.
(e) Preliminary steps have been taken to divest SONADER of credit,
input provision, and repair shop activities. Much still remains to be done,
and divestiture is continuing under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Project.
(f) A draft decree amending SONADER's statutes to make procurement
procedures less cumbersome was prepared, but was not approved during the
project implementation period.
(g) The expatriate advisers financed by the project provided on-the-job
training, which was well received by SONADER staff.   SONADER requested that
formal training and the specialized consultant to prepare a training program
be financed by the Kuwait Fund rather tha.a by the IDA Credit, and IDA agreed.
Unfortunately, this training component never materialized.l/
6.02        MDR.  Under the project, the Planning Unit was created within the
Ministry  of  Rural  Development  to:    formulate  agricultural  and  rural
development policies, review the functions of each MDR department and public
agency inder its supervision, prepare MDR's annual budget including the
allocation of financial resources to cover the recurrent costs and
counterpart funds of its development projects and coordinate activities of
MDR and rural sector related activities of other institutions. All of these
objectives were met to some extent.
(a) The Planning Unit took the lead role in coordinating four key
sector studies: (i) the study on cereals marketing and pricing (completed in
1987), which helped the Government define its new food policy and related
action program; (ii) the master plan for agricultural development of the
Senegal Valley Right Bank (begun in March 1988); the key objective of this
study was to make recommendations on design, operation and production
criteria and on a priority medium-term investment program for more
sustainable fully-controlled irrigation and flood recession agriculture in
the Senegal valley; (iii) the master plan for developing small dams and water
harvesting throughout the country, which has just begun under UNDP financing;
(iv) the first phase study on the organization of MDR, focussing on the
I/Preparation of the training program was delayed due to a series of
misunderstandings among the Mauritanian Government, SONADER, IDA, and the
Kuwait Fund as to whether the consultant should also do another study on
Restructuring of SONADER. A mission by a consultant financed by the Kuwait
Fund was scheduled for August 1990, but was canceled as a result of the Gulf
crisis.



6
diagnosis of the current organization of the Ministry's central and regional
offices.
(b) The Planning Unit also coordinated the preparation, monitoring and
evaluation of the agricultural components of the various structural
adjustment programs (PREF, PCR, and Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit).
(c) A data processing unit headed by a Mauritanian computer specialist
was created in the Planning Unit. Computers and software were purchased with
Credit proceeds, and staff were trained in word processing, spreadsheet and
data base software.
(d) The Planning Unit produced the first inventory of rural development
projects in Mauritania and set up a computerized data base with key
information about each project.
(e) From 1987 to 1990 the Planning Unit prepared and monitored the
consolidated investment budget of the Ministry of Rural Development, and it
prepared the consolidated investment budget for 1991.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01        Both executing agencies continued to function at the end of the
Project. SONADER is perhaps more able to function without continued long-
term expatriate assistance and funds from the project, due to the
multiplicity of donors still willing to provide support to it and due to the
amount of expatriate technical assistance that it has receivel from these
donors over a number of years. It is likely that SONADER will continue to
need short-term expert missions on specific subjects. Financing of SONADER's
operating deficit is to be covered by increased budgetary assistance from
Government. The Planning Unit, as a much newer and smaller entity, still
relies on two long-term expatriate advisers, financee by FAC. The operating
costs of the Planning Unit have been covered by Government and CCCE since the
closing of the IDA Credit.   Both SONADER and MDR's Planning Unit play
important roles in implementing adjustment measures under the IDA-financed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit.
8. Bank Performance.
8.01        The  Bank  appears  to  have  been  overly  optimistic  in  its
expectations of results from the three-year technical assistance project. No
key indicators to monitor performance were set out in the Memorandum of the
President. The Bank indicated, for example, that the Planning Unit by the
end of the Project should be capable of formulating an adequate agricultural
policy, but did not specify what this entailed. The Planning Unit felt that
it had achieved this objective by doing a diagnosis of constraints affecting
the rural sector and preparing the Letter of Development Policy for the
Agricultural Sector Investment Credit.
8.02        Supervision.  The project was supervised by three Task Managers
(an engineer, a financial analyst and an economist) during the life of the
project.  Through November 1987 the project was supervised about every six
months.  There is no record of a supervision mission in 1988.  The final
supervision mission took place in March 1989. Supervision was adequate in



7
the first three years of the project (an average of 9.9 sw spent on
supervision), but was reduced in the later years (an average of 3.7 sw in the
last three years).   This decline reflected scale economies realized by
simultaneous supervision of three other ongoing projects in the rural sector
and the attention devoted to preparation of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit. Although no Bank institutional specialist supervised the
project, several institutional/management consultants were recruited and
financed by the Credit for short-term consulting assignments.    The Bank
failed to convey systematically the message that the respect of the audit
covenants was an important Credit condition. The Bank also failed to monitor
the allocation of Credit proceeds to each of the executing agencies, and as
a result the Credit was fully disbursed leaving each executing agency with
many outstanding invoices to pay.
9.    Borrower Performance.
9.01        overall, borrower performance was satisfactory.  A major effort
was made towards restructuring SONADER, institutional support was provided to
both executing agencies, a first-phase study on the organization of MDR was
completed, and efforts are still ongoing under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit. The main shortcomings of the Borrower's performance were:
(i) Government's failure to provide counterpart funds in a timely manner,
(ii) non-respect of audit covenants by both executing agencies, (iii)
SONADER's use of funds intended for the Planning Unit (probably as a result
of Government's non-payment of counterpart funds), (iv) frequent staff
turnover.
10.   Proiect Relationship.   The relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower was good throughout the project.
11.   Consulting Services.  The consultants recruited under the Project were
both individual consultants and firms. Both SONADER and the Planning Unit of
MDR indicated that most of the consultants performed satisfactorily.
SONADER, in particular, stressed the beneficial impact of on-the-job training
provided by the expatriate advisers.   Both SONADER and the Planning Unit
indicated that the major shortcoming of the consultant services provided
under the Project was the lack of a system to evaluate the consultants'
performance against well-defined objectives. In future technical assistance
projects, the Bank should work with Government to ensure that an adequate
performance evaluation system, clearly understood by all parties, is
discussed  during  preparation   and  put   into  place  before  project
implementation.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data.   Some studies and reports produced
during the project are not available at either Headquarters or the Resident
Mission. At least two studies that were done towards the end of the Project
are still in a desk at the Planning Unit Office since there were no funds
remaining under the project to duplicate and distribute the reports.   In
future technical assistance projects supervision staff should establish sound
filing and monitoring practices, to obtain copies, and to provide the
Borrower with systematic feedback.



9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
SONADER
1.    The Project enabled the Government, IDA and donors to further
their efforts toward the financial rehabilitation of SONADER and to
strengthen the latter's role as an executing agency for rural
development projects.
2.    SONADER's financial rehabilitation was achieved through the
preparation and implementation of a financial recovery program for the
agency. By providing SONADER's headquarters with budgetary funds during
project implementation, the project enabled SONADER to achieve financial
equilibrium.
3.    Changes to SONADER's organizational structure (the merging of
technical departments, the transfer of the planning function to the
Ministry of Rural Development, and the introduction of financial
management) enabled SONADER to refocus on its primary tasks: irrigation
development and agricultural extension and outreach, and thus to improve
its performance.
4.    The introduction of financial management made it possible to:
- establish a procedure for the preparation and monitoring of
operating plans;
- improve budgetary management and supervision, leading to better
control of SONADER's operating costs.
5.    In general, the partners in this project, i.e., the Mauritanian
Government and the International Development Association, fulfilled
their obligations with respect to project execution.
6.    The Mauritanian Government furnished the funds required to pay off
SONADER's debts in keeping with the timetable established under the
project. In addition, Government regularly budgeted its contribution to
SONADER's operating costs.
7.    IDA financing was used to strengthen SONADER's technical
departments through the provision of long-term technical assistance in
the areas of irrigation, management, etc., short-term consultants,
various equipment and training materials. As a result of this technical
assistance, SONADER was able to develop its technical capacity and to
transfer skills from expatriates to Mauritanian staff.
1I This is the Borrower's unedited product as translated from the
French. Each executing agency (SONADER and MDR Planning Unit) submitted
a separate contribution.



10
8.    The Project also provided for the financing of consultants in the
area of institutional support. As a result of these services, the
Ministry of Rural Development and SONADER were able to carry out the
studies that were needed for the appraisal of the investment component
of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit and for the res.:ructuring
of SONADER.
Planning Unit at MDR
1.    Objectives of the Planning Unit:
-     Formulate sectoral policies (agricultural, environmental,
livestock, research, training, extension, technical
assistance);
-     Study functions and responsibilities of each MDR department
and public agency under its supervision;
-     Program investments and prepare strategic objectives and
measures for the development of the sector;
-     Prepare consolidated investment budgets;
Monitor and evaluate projects managed by MDR.
2.    Achievements of the Planning Unit:
-     Identification of sectoral policies and constraints;
Formulation of sectoral policies;
-     Elaboration and supervision of the principal sectoral and
macro-economic studies (cereals marketing and prices, post-
dam study, agricultural training, data processing, vegetable
marketing and prices, etc.);
-     Preparation, monitoring and evaluation of the PREF;
-     Preparation, monitoring and evaluation of the PCR;
-     Preparation, negotiations of the MDR component of the 1987-
1988 Structural Adjustment Credit;
-     Preparation, evaluation ex ante, negotiations, and
monitoring of the implementation of the 1989-1991
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, financed by IDA,
CCCE, FAC, KfW, and WFP.
-     Monitoring projects in the sector;
-     Preparation and monitoring of MDR's consclidated investment
budget from 1987 to 1990, and preparation of the 1991
consolidated investment budget;



1.1
Diagnostic of MDR and study of the functions and
responsibilities of MDR departments and agencies (1986-
1987);
Study on the reorganization of MDR, which has resulted in a
proposal for a decree to reorganize MDR;
Preparation of the documents submitted for the examina'.ion
of the National Commission on Investments;
-     Preparation of a document entitled wMinistry of Rural
Development in Statistics".
3.    Difficulties:
Lack of high level staff, and the need to provide the
Planning Unit with two agro-economists, with good experience
of the policies and projects of the sector.
4.    Future Prospects:
-     Guiding and monitoring of the implementation of the measures
required as conditions of Second Tranche Release of the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit;
-     Follow-up of the Post Dams Study (final phase);
-     Execution of the Livestock and the Charcoal Studies;
-     Implementation of the project: Rehabilitation Program, Phase
II, financed by IFAD, FENU, OPEC, UNDP and Mauritania.
Implementation of the components of this project (total cost
= US$ 18.4 million);
-     Preparation of the Lome IV program (7th EDF) of an estimated
cost of 37 million Ecus;
-     Monitoring and evaluation of all of MDR's projects;
-     Regional Planning Study (Trarza and Adrar);
-     Elaboration of the document entitled: Agricultural Policy of
the Ministry of Rural Development;
-     Elaboration of a document entitled: Review of the Projects
and Programs of the Ministry of Rural Development.



PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title Purpose                  FY       Status      Comments
1. Technical       To build SONADER        FY77    completed  The project was successful
Assistance to      into a strong                    12/80.      and had a positive impact
SONADER            development agency                           on institution building
(Cr. 694-MAU)      capable of carrying                         and reinforced SONADER's
out a rational                              efficiency and ability to
investment program                          prepare and execute irri-
for the rural sector.                       gation    and    rural
development projects.
However, during implement-
ation it became evident
that there was a need (i)
to restructure SONADER and
transfer sectoral policy-
making   and   planning
functions to MDR and (ii!
to provide training for
SONADER and MDR staff.
2. Urban           Three separate          FY79    completed  Part (iii) small-scale
and Rural          components to                                irrigation development
Development        provide financial                            was implemented by
(Cr. 888-MAU)      and technical                               SONADER
assistance: li)
to the industrial
sector for the devel-
opment of small and
medium scale enter-
prises; (ii) to the
artisan sector for
rehabilitating and
expanding the pro-
duction of knotted
carpets; (iii) to the
agricultural sector
for the development
of 30 new irrigated
schemes under village
cooperatives,
including an adequate
credit scheme.



14
3. Gorgol          To provide irrigation  FY81    completed  The project, while
Irrigation         and land development             09/86       an economic failure,
(Cr. 1068-MAU)    for some 3600 HA,                 PCR:       provided a considerable
with the objectives              6/24/88    amount of on-the-job
of reducing the                             training for Mauritanian
country's dependence                        staff.  New settlers
on food imports and                         rapidly attained full
increasing the incomes                      development yields and
and living standards                        developed ancillary
of some 4600 families                       activities such as
by stabilizing                              fishing.
their agriculture.
4. Second          To assist Ministry of    FY82  Ongoing    Project expanded to provide
Technical          Planning to: (i) for-                        TA for preparing and imple-
Assistance         mulate and monitor                           menting the Reinsertion
(Cr. 1292-MAU)    macro-economic policy;                       Program (including SONADER)
(ii, review and imple-                      and to finance the Post-Dam
ment the Fourth Five-                        Study, household income
Year Investment Plan;                       survey and health/
(iii) support the                           population project
technical ministries to                     preparation.
strengthen their sectoral
planning capacity and to
identify and prepare
sound development
projects; (iv) continue
the rehabilitation of
key public enterprise;
(v) train Mauritanian
staff in the Ministry of
Planning.
5. Small-Scale    To support Government    FY85  Ongoing    Only about 502 of the
Irrigation         efforts to develop                           perimeters are being
(Cr. 1571-MAU)    small-scale irriga-                          cultivated.  A socio-
tion instead of the                         economic survey is being
more costly and                              done to determine reasons
more difficult large-                        for non-cultivation.
scale irrigation.
6. Agric. Sector  A hybrid consisting        FY90  Ongoing    Continues and enlarges
Adjustment/        of a sectoral adjust-                        on many of the reforms
Investment         ment component and an                        envisaged under the Second
(Cr. 2093-MAU)    investment component                          Technical Assistance to the
designed to (1) improve                     Rural Sector Project. The
incentives to farmers                       first tranche was released
and to private investors                     in April 1990.  A second
through (a) further liber-                   tranche release is planned
alization of marketing and                   in September 1991.
prices, (b) more secure and
equitable land tenure in
the Senegal River Valley,



15
and (c) building up UBD with
the know-how and procedures
to manage a sound agricul-
tural credit portfolio; (2)
increase effectiveness of
SONADER and MDR by reducing
their recurrent expenditures
and reinforcing their invest-
ment selection practices; and
(3) identify appropriate
development techniques and
institutional arrangements
conducive to a less drought-
vulnerable livestock sector
and more sustairnable deserti-
fication control.



16
2. Project Timetable
Item                    Date Planned          Date Revised         Actual Date
Identification          1981                                       01/1981
Preparation              4-5/1981                                  4-5/1981
Pre-appraisal                                                      6/1981
Appraisal                6/1981                                    11/3-11/11/1981
Negotiations             3/1982               5/1982               8/31-9/3/1982
Board Approval           6/1982               7/1982               1(1/!/1983
2/1983
Signature                                                          12/12/1983
Effectiveness            3/2/1984             6/1/1984             02/04/1985
9/3/1984
12/3/1984
Completion               6/30/87                                   12/31/1989
Closing                  6/30/88              06/30/89             06/30/1990
12/31/89
06/30/ j0
Comments
Identification:   Identification took place during the First Technical Assistance
Project to SONADER (Cr. 694-MAU). In March 1981, Government confirmed earlier requests
to IDA for assistance with the financing and implementation of a follow-up project to
continue technical assistance to the rural sector.
Preparation: The project was prepared by Ministry of Rural Development staff and a
consultant. The key issue raised during preparation was the amount of Government's
counterpart funding and the need to ensure that Government complied with its
commitment.
Appraisal Mission:   The appraisal mission, initially scheduled for June 1981, was
postponed to November 1981, due to late receipt of the preparation report prepared by
the consultant and lack of time for review of the report by MDR. A project preparation
facility of US$750,000 was approved in March 1982 to finance the continuation of the
ongoing activities of the First SONADER Technical Assistance Project. Questions were
raised at the yellow cover stage as to the role and sustainability of SONADER after
completion of the project.
Board Approval: Board approval took place eleven months after credit negotiations due
to delays  in Government  fulfilling its  financial commitment  to SONADER.   The
Association agreed to retroactive financing of $400,000 for salaries of technical
assistance staff prior to granting the credit but after May 1983 and the proposal was
made orally at the Board presentation.
Effectiveness:   Credit effectiveness had to be  rescheduled  four times because
Government was unable to meet its financial commitment to the main executing agency,
SONADER.
Credit Closing:   The Credit officially closed on June 30, 1990, but the final
disbursement to recover the special account took place on December 4, 1990.



17
3. Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (in $ million)
Credit 1414-MAU
Bank FY            Estimated          Actual   Actual 2 of
and Quarter       Cumulative    Cumulative        Estimated
1983/84       1             _
2             _
3             _
4           1.4                              0
1984/85       1           2.2                              0
2           2.9               -              0
3           3.6           1.67              462
4           4.4           2.17              49%
1985/86       1           5.0           2.64              53Z
2           5.6           2.98              53Z
3           6.2           3.37              54Z
4           6.9           3.49              51Z
1986/87       1           7.2           3.91              54Z
2           7.5           4.33              58Z
3           7.8           4.48              57Z
4           8.1           5.45              67Z
1987/88       1                         5.59              69X
2                         5.89              73Z
3                         6.06              752
4                         6.44              80%
1988/89       1                         6.59              812
2                         7.28              90Z
3                         7.49              92Z
4                         7.75              96Z
1989/90       1                         7.78              96Z
2                         8.35             103Z
3                         8.60             1062
4
Date of Final Disbursement: December 4, 1990
(The last disbursement was for the recovery of the Special Account.)
Closing Date: June 30, 1990



18
4. Project Implementation
No key indicators were specifically identified at appraisal.
5. Project Costs and FinancinR
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal
Estimate          Actual 1/          AtE
US$ Million
Personnel
Long-term technical assistance        3.9                5.0                78Z
Short-term consultants                2.5                -
Local staff                           0.8                0.1                13?
7.2
Training                              0.2
Equipment and vehicles                0.4                0.5               125Z
operating costs of vehicles           0.4                1.6               400?
Refinancing of PPF advance            1.0                1.2               1202
SONADER Working Capital               -                  3.1
Base Cost                             9.2               11.5
Price Contingencies                   1.3
Total Cost                           10.5               11.5               1102
1/ Project accounts do not allow a separation of costs into domestic and
foreign currency components.



19
B. Proiect Financing
Planned
Source       (Credit Agreement)         Z      Final               z      Comment
US$ Million                      US$ Million
IDA           8.1                         77     8.6                 75
V'AC          1.5                        14      1.7                 15
Government   0.9                           9     1.2                 10
10.5                       100    11.5                100
Government's
contribution   to   the
p r oj  e c t         i s
s ign i f icant ly
understated    as
Government funded.  The
liquidation   of
SONADER's debts, which
is not included in the
calculation of project
costs. (See detailed
counterpart    funding
table at Annex 1).



20
6. Project Results
Due to the nature of the project, quantitative i.ndicators are not relevant.
Studies
Studies                                  Purpose as                    Status                Impact of Study
defined at
appraisal
1. Final design and prepara-             To allow construction         Completed with
tion of bidding documents                of now headquarters           other financing
for SONADER's headquarters               building                      before Credit
became effective.
2. Pedological Study of
Gorgol Noir (8CEOM)
3. Diagnostic of MDR and                 Not specifically              Completed in          Discussed within the
of the functions and                     mentioned at                  1987.                 Min. stry;Provided an
responsibilltles of its                  appraisal.                                          analysis of the con-
agencies and departmnts                                                                      straintswithin rural
sector.
4. Study on the                          Not specifically                                    Resulted in a draft
Reorganization of MDR and                mentioned at                                        decree on the reorgani-
Two-Year Operating Plan                  appraisal.                                          zation of MDR, which
still has not been
approved.
S. Rural Development In                  Not specifically              Completed in          Was unable to locate
Statistics                               mentioned at                  April 1990.           a copy other than the
appraisal.                                          one at the Planning
Unit.
6. Cereals Marketing and                 Not specifically              Completed in          HelpedGovernmnt define
Pricing Study                            mentioned at                  1987.                  its ne food policy and
appraisal.                                         re Iated action program.
7. Agricultural Policy                   Not specifically              Completed In          Th study wa cmpl eted
of MDR                                   mentioned at                  1990.                 but never printed or
appraisal.                                          ci rcu I a,ed du- to lack
of funds.
Note:   The Planning Unit collaborated on many other studies  (prepared terms of reference,
reviewed and comiented on studies, etc.) which were financed by other IDA credits in
Mauritania  (notably the Senegal Valley Right Bank Master  Plan).   The Planning Unit  also
played a major role in preparing and evaluating performance in the rural sector of the 1985-
88 Structural Adjustment Program (PREF), the 1989-91 Structural Adjustment Program (PCR), and
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program.



21
7. Status of Covenants
Section No  of         Covenant                            Status
Credit Agreement
Sect. 3.01 (a)         The Borrower shall carry out        Complied with
Parts A to E through its
Planning Unit.
(b)        The Borrower shall cause            Complied with
SONADER to perform in
accordance with provision.s
of the Project Agreement.
(c)        The Borrower shall make             Complied with
available proceeds of the
Credit.
(d)        The Borrower shall not assign,    Complied with
amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement.
Sect. 3.02             The Borrower shall employ           Complied with
consultants, including a
consultant heading the
Planning Unit, satisfactory
to the Association.
Sect. 3.03 (a)         Insurance                           Complied with
Cb)        Goods and services to be            Complied with
used exclusively for the
Project.
Sect. 3.04             The Borrower will provide IDA
(a)        with:  Reports and contract         Complied with
documents for Parts A-E of
project.
(b)        Progress reports and records         Complied with
(c)        Publicity on awarded contracts    Complied with
(d)        Completion report                   Complied with
Sect. 3.05             Borrower shall (i) maintain         Complied with
Planning Unit (ii) Employ           Done in 1985
3 Mauritanian professionals         (Credit not
for the PU by 12/01/83.             signed until 12/2/83.)
Sect. 3.06 (i)         Borrower to provide IDA with         Not complied with
MDR training program satis-         A training program was
factory to IDA by 6/30/84.          prepared by consultants
financed by FAC but was found
to be too general.



22
(ii)       Names and resumes of                Formal training did not
individuals to be trained          take place.
aboard shall be submitted to
IDA for approval.
Sect. 3.07             Borrower shall make quarterly       Complied with but with
deposits into the Borrower's       delays.
account for Parts A-E of
project.
Sect. 4.01   (a)       Separate accounts for CP            Eventually complied with
(b)      Retention of all records            Complied with
(c)      Have accounts audited annually    Not complied with.
and report submitted to IDA        Audits for 87,88, and
within 4 months of FY end.          89 were being audited at time
of completion mission, but
have not yet been sent to IDA.
Sect. 402    (i)       Borrower to make annual             Borrower eventually paid, but
adequate budgetary allocations    was consistently late.
for its contribution to SONADER.
(ii)     Borrower shall make cash            Borrower paid but sometimes
transfers to SONADER in amounts   with considerable delays.
sufficient to meet SONADER's       In Jan. 87 IDA threatened to
cash requirements for each          suspend disbursements.
quarter.
Section No. of         Covenant                            Status
Project Agreement
Sect. 2.01             SONADER shall carry out relevant  Complied with
parts of the project with
all due diligence.
Sect. 2.02    (a)      SONADER shall employ consultants  Complied with
and specialists satisfactory to   Need for specific
IDA including a management         disciplines and no. of
specialist, a financial analyst,  TA (reduced from 8 to 5)
three irrigation engineers, an    changed over the course
agricultural engineer, an          of the project but changes
agricultural economist and a       were mutually agreed by
credit specialist.                  IDA and SONADER.
Sect. 2.02    (b)      SONADER shall take all necessary  Complied with
measures to permit consultants
to carry out their
responsibilities.
Sect. 2.03             Procurement shall be governed by  Complied wv.th
schedule 3 of DCA.



23
Sect. 2.04    (a)      Insurance                           Complied with
(b)     Goods and services to be used       Complied with
exclusively for the project.
Sect. 2.05    (a)      SONADER shall furnish to IDA        Complied with
reports and contract documents.
(b)     SONADER shall maintain adequate   Complied with
records and procedures.
(c)     Publicity on awarded contracts    Complied with
(d)     SONADER shall enable IDA            Complied with
representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites,
works, etc.
Sect. 2.06             SONADER shall duly perform all    Complied with
its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement.
Sect. 2.07    (a)      SONADER shall exchange views with Complied with
IDA concerning relevant parts
of the Project.
(b)     SONADER shall inform IDA of any   Complied with
condition which interferes with
the progress of its parts of the
Project.
Sect. 2.08             By Jan. 1, 1984, SONADER shall    Complied with,
employ at least 8 professionals   except that
to work as counterparts to the    expatriates were
expatriate specialists.            reduced to 5.
Sect. 2.09             By June 30, 1984, SONADER shall   Not complied with
furnish to the Association an      Borrower proposed that
acceptable training program.       this be financed by Kuwait Fund
instead of IDA; IDA agreed.
Kuwait mission was scheduled for
August, 90, but did not take place
due to war in the Gulf.
Sect. 3.01             SONADER shall carry on its          Complied with
operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with
sound practices.
Sect. 3.02             SONADER shall maintain and          Compli'-d with
repair its equipment.
Sect. 3.03             Insurance                           Complied with



24
Sect. 3.04            By Nov. 1 of each year of           Complied with
Project execution, SONADER
shall submit to IDA a
budget for the following
year.
Sect. 4.01    (a)      Separate accounts                  Complied with
(b)     Retain all accounting records      Complied with
until one year after the
closing date.
Sect. 4.02    (a)     Have its accounts and financial   Complied with (but
statements audited annually        with delays in 85, 86, 87.)
(Accounts for 88 & 89 were
not audited until Nov. 90).
(b)     Furnish audit report to IDA        Sometimes complied with,
within four months of FY end.      but always with delays.  We
Audit for 88 & 89 was received
only in April 91.
(c)     Furnish to IDA any information    Complied with
it may request concerning said
accounts.



8. Use of Bank Resources
_________________________
A. Staff Inputs
FY81     FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85     FY98     FY97      FY99     FY99     FY90      FY91    Tota I
Preparation          0.0       1.4                                                                                          2.0
Appraisal            0.4      13.0      1.4                                                                                14.9
Negotiations
thru Board                             8.4      3.1                                                                        9.6
Supervlslon                                      9.1      10.8      9.8      2.6       4.1      4.5      2.1               43.0
CompletIon                                                                                               0.2       3.4      3.8
Other (LOP, PAD)               3.3      6.7      6.4       1.9      1.1      1.6       3.2                                 23.2
TOTAL            1.0      17.7     13.6     18.6      12.7     10.9      4.2       7.3      4.6      2.3       8.4     96.1
Ln



8. Uisalows
Stag, of                   Month/  No. of   Days In  Specializations            Performance Rating       Type of
Project Cycle              Year    Persons  Field    Represonted (a)            Status (b)   Trend (c)  Problem  (d)
Identification             01/81         1        7    ECR
Preparation                04/81         1       35    USP (C)                  (Provided by FAC)
Pro-Appraisal              06/81         4       10    EGR, ACR, TRO (C), FNA
Appraisal                   11/81        2        9    EGR, ECR
Post-Appraisal             02/82         2        6    ECR, ECN
Post-Appraisal              10/82        1         6    FNA
Post-Appraisal              02/83        1        4    ECN
Supervision 1               10/83        1        3    EGR                             2           1     F, 0
Supervision 2               ?/84         2        3    EOR, ECN                        2           3     F, 0  (e)
Supervislon 3               11/84        1        9    EGR                             2           1     0
Superviston 4              03/85         1        4    EOR                             I           I
Supervision Follow-Up       10/86        1       14    ECR                      (A 690 was not producod.)
Supervielon S              03/85         2       16   EGR, fNA (C)                     2                 U, DI
Supervision S               12/86        1        7    FNA                             2                 M, DI
Supervision 7               06/87        1        8    ECU                             2                 H. DI
Supervision Follow-Up       11/87        I        I    ECN                       (A 690 was not produced)
Supervision 0               3/89         1        I    ECU                             I                 U, DI
Completion                  10/90        1       11   0O
(a) Specialliations:
ACR a Agronomist, Agriculturist
(C) a Consuitant
ECN a Economist
EOR a Enginsor
FNA a financial Analyst
USP * aMnag ment Specialist
OA  a Operations Assistant
TRO * Training Specialist
(b) Status:
I a Problem-fre or sinor problems.
2 a ioderste problms.
a a MaJor problems.
(c) Trends
I * Improving.
2 a Stationary.
8 a Deteriorating.
(d) Types of Problmso
DI a Devolopmnt Impact
F a Financial.
U   UMnagerial.
T a Technical.
P * Political.
0 = Other.
(s) Status/Trend was originally submitted as 3/2 but an amended 690 was lssued by tho
Deputy Division Chlef changing status/trend to 2/3.



27
ANNEX I
Government Counterpart Funding
Year        Amount in   Amount in           Purpose
Million UM   US$
A. SONADER  1985          50            648,508          Liquidation of SONADER's debts
1986         60            857,143          Liquidation of SONADER's debts
1987         30            410,959 1/       Operating Costs
1988                                         21,609,419 UM owed but not
paid as of 10/90
1989                                         34,202,940 UM owed but not
paid as of 10/90
1990         30            370,370 1/
170         2,286,980
B. MDR Planning
Unit
1986         3.0          40,333            Salaries + operating costs
1987         6.0          81.169
1988         9.9         131,406
1989         7.0          84,358
1990         7.4          91,358
33.3        428,537 1/
1/ Included in Government contribution to financing project costs.



IBRD 23095
M A U R I T A N I A 
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                              o
C ,S
Paved Roads                                                                               Q
-~ - - - Unpaved Roads
*- * *---* -Ro.Iroads
*     Airfields
Annuol Rumnfoll in Millimeters (1970.84)
international Boundaries
-  Indicates the Territory of the former Spanish
Saharo (Western Sohara)
@       Copper                                                                                                          AL GE  RI A
Iron
Dote Palms                                                                                        !
Fishing                                                                                          =)
A      Wharf                                                         i
AGRICULTURAL ZONES:
IZ::J   Sohoran Desert                                                  |     _.
Sohoran Sub-Desert                                             \ftlaheeiti
E     J  Sohefian                                                      !     'eii
0,~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ,iI
KILOMETERS                                                     i                                                                              4
MAL I
Nouadhibo 
a20t                                                                                                                                                    20O-
NOUAKCHOT                                   M
1,                           -N--
EREAL   (4  00                        Ayoun El            f .                      8 . . \
.y              fa         I                                                    .ny iwtt
'K.-'-'                           M        A        L      I                   a  
S E N E G A L                           )                                                                    __,,__U
JUNE 1991



