Document of                          r
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3370-MAT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7.4 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJEC
September 9, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withiout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Ouguiya (uM)
US$1.00          =   UM 47.00
UM 1 million     =   US$22,222
ABBREVIATIONS
Control Unit  -  Management Control Unit
DAF           - Department of Administration and Finance
DT            -  Technical Department
EEC           -  European Economic Community
FAC           -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
MPAT          -  Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
MIFERMA       -  Mines de fer de Mauritanie
MDR           -  Ministere du Developpement Rural
OMVS          -  Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve S6negal
SNIM          -  Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SONADER       -  Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries:    Proceeds of the Credit would be provided as a grant to
SONADER, Mauritania's only rural development institution,
and the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)
Amount:            SDR 7.4 million (US$8.1 million)
Terms:             Standard
Co-donors:        Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (FAC)
Project
Description:      The project consists of a three-year program of technical
assistance to SONADER and MDR. It would: (i) reinforce
SONADER by assisting its newly created Management Control
Unit and training Mauritanian staff for key positions; and,
(ii) strengthen MDR's planning and policy-making capability
in its newly established Planning Unit. The project would
finance eleven long-term advisors for SONADER and MDR;
short-term consultant services, including the preparation of
final designs and bidding documents for a new SONADER
headquarters building; scholarships and on-the-job training;
and vehicles, office and laboratory equipment, including
operating costs of vehicles acquired under the project. In
the spirit of the Bank's Special Action Program (SAP), a
revolving fund would be established under the project to
expedite disbursements.
Benefits
and Risks:        The project would strengthen SONADER's managerial capability
and consolidate the progress attainedL through the previous
operation recently completed. Similetrly, MDR is expected to
start developing the capabilities needed to formulate an
adequate agricultural policy. The project's major uncer-
tainties, common to other technical assistance operations,
concern mainly the difficulties in recruiting qualified
experts as well as in recruiting and training local staff.
There is also an uncertainty as to the extent to which the
government would follow the policy and program recommenda-
tions which would arise from the work of the project,
particularly from the MDR component. Although these risks
are difficult to eliminate, efforts would be made to limit
them by providing assistance in the recruitment of experts,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without 'orld Bank authorization.



- ii -
by offering attractive training programs, and by carrying out regular reviews
with the authorities concerned on the results of the feasibility studies and
recommendations proposed for sector policies and programs.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
-----(us$ thousand)------
Long-term advisors (30 my)                1,370     2,560       3,930
Short-term consultants (177 mm)             800      1,650      2,450
Local staff (42 my)                         840          -        840
Training                                     40        160        200
Equipment                                   160        660        820
Refinancing of PPF advance                  350        650      1,000
Base Cost                                 3,560     5,680       9,240
Price contingencies                         490        770      1,260
Total (net of taxes)                 4,050     6,450      10,500
Financing
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)------
IDA                                        2.60      5.50        8.10
FAC                                        0.55      0.95        1.50
Government                                 0.90          -       0.90
Total                                 4.05      6.45       10.50
Disbursement Schedule:
(IDA Credit)
FY                        84     85      86     87
------US$ million-------
Annual                   1.4 1/ 3.0    2.5    1.2
Cumulative               1.4    4.4    6.9    8.1
Rate of Return:    N/A
Map:                IBRD 16405
Chart:              24028
1/   Including refinancing of US$1,000,000 approved as PPF advance.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent of
SDR 7.4 million (US$8.1 million) to help finance a Second Rural Sector Tech-
nical Assistance Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Addi-
tional financing wi'll be provided by the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (FAC)
of the French Government through a grant of US$1.5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania:  Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU) dated June 4,
1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Since then, a number
of missions have visited Mauritania to monitor the eccnomic and financial
situation and prospects of the economy. Updated country data are given in
Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.       Despite its comparatively high per capita income level on national
average (US$465 in 1982), Mauritania bears many of the characteristics of the
"Least Developed Countries" in terms of physical and human resources. Two-
thirds of the country is desert, where the principal economic activity is
livestock herding. Crop farming is generally limited to the sub-Saharan zone
in the south, where rainfall is nonetheless sparse and irregular. Pockets of
modern economic activity are found in the mining complex of Zouerate, the
fishing center of Nouadhibou, and the administrative capital of Nouakchott.
These centers are geographically separated from the agricultural zones, and
there is little economic interaction between them and the rural sector.
4.       The three centers of modern economic activity account for a major
share of the country's overall output, while livestock and crop farming, which
support as much as 70 percent of the population, account for less than 30
percent of total output. The population as a whole (est. 1.6 million in 1982)
suffers from an extremely low standard of living, as reflected in key social
indicators: life expectancy at birth is estimated at 44 years, infant mor-
tality is 141 per 1,000, only one in every three chilcLren of school-age
attends primary school, and less than 20 percent of the population is literate
in either Arabic or French.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
5.       Stimulated by increases in iron ore production and the rapid expan-
sion of livestock resources, Mauritania sustained an average annual growth
rate of 8 percent during the 1960s. The economy experienced a sharp dece-
leration in growth in the mid-1970's, however, and a period of marked finan-
cial instability in the latter part of the decade. Following a period of
stagnation 1977-80, the economy recovered in 1981 and 1982 with improved
performance in the agricultural sector and fisheries. Growth has averaged 6.4
percent over these past two years. Nonetheless, given an annual population
growth rate of 2.4 percent, real per capita incomes in 1982 were only about 5
percent higher than they had been ten years earlier.
6.       Mauritania's generally poor economic performance in the latter 1970's
was due chiefly to reduced world demand for iron ore, on which the country had
traditionally been dependent for 70-80 percent of its export earnings, and
severe and repeated droughts in the agricultural sector. The effects of these
factors were compounded by the prolonged military conflict in the Western
Sahara and by a poorly conceived investment policy.
7.       The Government's investment program was undertaken with heavy inflows
of assistance from abroad, particularly from OPEC sources, as well as borrow-
ing from foreign commercial lenders. These resources were used principally to
nationalize the mining sector (1974-75) as well as to finance ambitious
projects in transport infrastructure and a few large industrial ventures which
proved unviable. As a result, external debt service obligations accumulated
to a peak of $77.4 million in 1976, as against $12.9 million in 1973, while
the capacity of the economy to service these obligations failed to expand.
8.       Repercussions of the developments of the 1970's were immediately
reflected in exceptional budgetary and balance of payments deficits. By 1977,
the Government's current expenditure requirements reached a level nearly
double its receipts, producing a treasury deficit on current account alone
equivalent to 16 percent of GDP. On external account, despite massive inflows
of foreign grants and loans, the country suffered a severe drain of US$41
million in net foreign reserves that same year.
The Rehabilitation Plan and Subsequent Stabilization Efforts
9.       In mid-1978, the economic and financial situation led the Government,
with the assistance of the Bank, to prepare a Financial Rehabilitation Plan
which proposed the renegotiaton of $215 million in external debt, more than
40 percent of the disbursed debt outstanding at the time, and called for
strict conditions on the Government's future borrowing, tight control of
public expenditure and major revisions in public investment priorities.
10.      Over the three-year period 1979-81, Mauritania regained a consider-
able degree of financial stability, largely through Government adherence to
measures recommended under the Rehabilitation Plan and a subsequent IMF Stand-
By program. The improvement was facilitated by external debt relief and a



- 3 -
continued flow of fresh concessional assistance from abroad. The growth of
the Government's current expenditure was curbed: its level has in fact
remained constant over the past five years even in nominal terms. The earlier
drain on the country's foreign reserves was reversed in each of the three
years, 1979 through 1981. Results for 1982, however, indicate a wide drain on
reserves and a net increase in payments arrears. The loss of reserves, esti-
mated at $90 million, was incurred despite a net inflow of official grants and
loans of $200 million. The serious deterioration of Mauritania's external
position last year reflects the combined impact of persistently depressed
export earnings and debt service obligations of virtually unmanageable
proportions.
11.      Improvement in the immediate financial situation can yet be made
through measures such as further debt renegotiation and rehabilitation of the
public enterprises. Over the longer term, financial stability and sustained
growth require a reorientation of the public investment program in order to
ensure adequate maintenance of existing economic infrastructure and to stimu-
late growth in the directly productive sectors. Apart from the Guelbs Pro-
ject, which constitutes a replacement of otherwise declining iron mining capa-
city, new public investment under the IVth Development Plan (1981-85) is
concentrated in those sectors which hold greatest potential as sources of
renewable growth, notably irrigated agriculture, livestock and fisheries.
Medium-Term Outlook
12.      In the medium term, Mauritania will continue to rely heavily on
concessional assistance from abroad towards maintenance of existing capital
assets as well as for new investment projects. The need is particularly acute
given that the mining sector, originally relied upon as the country's princi-
pal source of growth through the mid-1980's, continues to show extremely
disappointing performance as a result of slack international markets. Produc-
tion this year may amount to only 7 million MT, a little more than half the
volume anticipated at the time the IVth Development Plan was in preparation,
and no major improvement in either volume or real prices is foreseen through
at least 1986. While iron ore receipts have stagnated, the fisheries sector
has emerged as a significant foreign exchange earner, accounting for as much
as 38 percent of total merchandise exports in 1981-82. Although the sector is
widely believed to hold considerable long-term growth potential, prospects for
its continued expansion in a highly competitive international market remain
uncertain.
13.      In an effort to tap the growth potential of crop agriculture, the
current public investment program gives primary emphasis to irrigation in
terms of new investment outside the Guelbs. Climatic vagaries in the major
food producing zones of the Senegal River Basin are such that fully controlled
irrigation is considered by the Mauritanians to be the most feasible means of
narrowing the country's exceptionally wide food deficit with the rest of the
world. In a year of normal weather conditions, domestic foodgrain production
meets 40 percent of demand. This year, under conditions of extreme drought
comparable to those of 1973, domestic production is expected to meet only 20
percent of normal consumption. In order to stabilize and expand production of
foodgrains, particularly rice, the Government has launched a major irrigation



- 4 -
program under the IVth Plan. Whereas less than 2,000 hectares were under
irrigation in 1980 at the opening of the Plan period, the Government aims at
bringing an additional 10,000 hectares under irrigation by 1985. Primary
responsibility for the execution of the irrigation program rests with SONADER,
the Government's principal agent in the rural sector.
14.      The Government's irrigation targets are probably well beyond its
implementation capacity through the mid-1980's, given the high cost of infra-
structure, the paucity of local technical expertise and the very fundamental
socio-economic change indicated by irrigation development. The major con-
straints are indeed of a technical and institutional character. The extent to
which the irrigation program can be realized over the medium term will depend
heavily on the availability of technical expertise to assist the Government
and SONADER to identify sound projects, to make effective use of external
resources and thereby to maximize the potential of irrigated agriculture as a
basis of renewable growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
15.      The Bank Group has had 19 operations in Mauritania for a total of
US$223.1 million. Of these, two are Bank loans for mining operations (US$66
million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to SNIM in 1979 for the Guelbs
Iron Ore Project). The sixteen others are IDA credits totalling US$77.1
million. Of the IDA operations, five have been in the transport sector, five
in the rural sector, two in the education sector, one in the energy sector,
one IDF project, and two technical assistance projects to the Ministry of
Planning. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.      Implementation of Bank group projects has often been delayed by
administrative inefficiencies within the Government. Moreover, project costs
have tended to be very high and often to incur large overruns, due to the long
distances within the country, the pervasive lack of basic infrastructure, the
small number of contractors in operation, and the need to recruit large num-
bers of expatriates to implement works and to staff projects. These factors
have been aggravated by the exceptional political situation that prevailed in
Mauritania throughout the 1970s, and by the effects of high inflation and
unfavorable exchange rates. The historical rate of disbursements of IDA funds
has remained extremely slow over the years. So much so, that in the mid-
1970s, the Association responded to the clear need for strengthening the
implementation and management of ongoing operations by sending more frequent
supervision missions to provide support to the Government. Recently, some
improvement has been noted in overall project implementation and in the level
of Credit disbursements.
17.      The Mauritanian authorities are well aware of the many difficulties
being encountered in project execution. Some of these will persist for seve-
ral years for reasons outside the Government s control, particularly those
related to the country's peculiar geographic characteristics and the poor
infrastructure base. The lack of skilled manpower starts with inadequte basic



output from the educational system and will take a long time to fully
resolve. Nonetheless the Government has been making a major effort to tackle
this problem. IDA assistance has been provided under the Second Education
Project (FY82) and Second Technical Assistance Project (FY83) and is planned
under the proposed project. These projects are all expected to improve the
Government's capacity for project preparation and monitoring in key sectors of
bhe economy, and help the Government to make prudent investments that fit the
particular circumstances of Mauritania. This proposed second Rural Sector
Technical Assistance Project would specifically identify ways in which proce-
dures within the rural sector administration can be improved, and the
traditional bottlenecks in project execution eliminated.
18.      The Bank Group presence in Mauritania was fairly substantial in the
early 1970s, and in 1970-72 it was the third largest donor (providing about 18
percent of Mauritania s external capital assistance) behind France (21 per-
cent) and the EEC (19 percent). Since then, external financial assistance to
Mauritania has increased rapidly, and in recent years the Bank Group s share
has decreased to about 5 percent. The importance of the Bank s economic and
technical advice remains strong, however, and provides the basis for a country
development strategy based on: (a) dialogue with the Government on financial
and economic issues, in cooperation with the IMF and other external aid
donors; (b) technical assistance to help strengthenen national economic
management and increase the country s absorptive capacity; and (c) direct
project assistance to high-priority sectors, with special emphasis on mobiliz-
ing and coordinating the provision of large amounts of external aid from the
Arab OPEC countries and from other donor agencies.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Overview
19.      Two-thirds of Mauritania lies in the Sahara zone with less than
100 mm of annual rainfall. The rest is in the Sahel with a maximum precipi-
tation of only 600 mm. Thus Mauritania has one of the poorest agricultural
resource bases of all countries in West Africa. The rural sector provides the
livelihood for about 85 percent of the population and contributes about 25
percent of the GDP with some 65 percent of the rural population involved in
nomadic herding. Sedentary agriculture is limited to a relatively narrow
strip along the Senegal River, a small area (Guidimaka) in the south where
local precipitation allows rainfed cropping, some oases in the north, and a
few isolated regions where shallow lakes make flood recession cropping
possible. Insufficient and erratic rainfall has been the major barrier to
this sector's growth, aggravated in the past decade by the recurrence of
serious droughts.
Livestock
20.      Comprising 90 percent of the output of the rural sector and 20 per-
cent of the GDP, livestock production represents the largest single contri-
bution to Mauritania's GDP, higher than mining. However, the livestock



- 6 -
population of cattle, sheep and goats was cut in half by the effects of the
droughts of the mid 1970s and at present there are about 1.4 million cattle
and 5-6 million sheep and goats. Due to harsh climatic conditions, the
survival of livestock depends on the mobility and hardiness of herds, which
move to the north in the rainy season following pasture growth, and to the
south during the cold and dry season seeking more permanent pastures and crop
residues.  Lack of watering places and shortage of fodder during the dry
season are among the major constraints to livestock development. Cattle are
also threatened by diseases. In the late 1960s the Government carried out a
successful campaign to eradicate rinderpest, the main animal health hazard.
Follow-up of this effort is insufficient and, although occasional outbreaks
have been controlled, the threat nonetheless remains latent and requires the
continuation of vaccination campaigns. In 1971, IDA financed a livestock
development project (Cr. 273-MAU, US$4.15 million), which provided for
rehabilitation and construction of wells, construction of firebreaks, and
vaccination.  It was completed with reasonable success in 1978.  Experience
during and subsequent to this project suggests that although there is some
potential for increasing the herd size the risk of major losses during drought
periods also increases. Thus the future for livestock lies more with improved
animal health and husbandry practices than herd expansion.
Rainfed Agriculture
21.      Along the Senegal and the Gorgol Rivers, farmers grow rainfed millet,
flood-recession sorghum, and some vegetables.  Yields are low due to the
extremely difficult climatic conditions which prevent the improvement of
traditional cultivation techniques. In favorable years production of sorghum
and millet is 45,000 tons which satisfies only 40 percent of domestic consump-
tion. In drought years, such as 1973/74 and 1977/78, rainfed production may
be reduced by 50 percent. Expansion or improvement of rainfed agriculture is
technically, financially and economically non-viable and farmers will not risk
investing where there is substantial probability of loss due to drought.
Irrigation
22.      Irrigation appears to be the only way to overcome Mauritania's
climatic constraints, yet its use is presently limited for reasons of cost or
practicality. So far, small-scale irrigation has been developed along the
Senegal river by means of small pumping schemes financed by bilateral and
multilateral agencies and produces about 8,000 tons of rice and maize.
Although only about 1,700 ha are now in operation, the potential for this type
of project is limited and will be exhausted with the development of another
3,300 ha, as projected in the 1981-85 Plan. Further low-cost irrigation from
the Senegal River is largely impractical because: (a) flood levels fluctuate
too widely; and (b) few sites on the Mauritanian side of the river are suit-
able.
25.      Larger scale irrigation development, on the other hand, is complex
and costly due to physical difficulties as well as lack of infrastructure,
institutions and tradition. A start has been made in medium-size irrigation
iiith the Mpourie (1,400 ha) and Kaedi (700 ha) projects that are now opera-
tional, and the Boghe (950 ha) and Gorgol (2,000 ha) projects that are now



- 7 -
under construction. Although facing many constraints it is hoped that exper-
ience from these projects will help develop the necessary skills, know-how and
institutions that will reduce unit costs and improve productivity for future
irrigation projects.
24.      Large scale irrigation may eventually be possible from the two major
dams on the Senegal river (Manantali and Diama) that will be constructed by
the Senegal River Development Office (OMVS). OMVS is a trinational (Mali,
Mauritania and Senegal) entity financially supported by several bilateral and
multilateral agencies. Construction of the dams started in 1982 and Diama is
expected to be operational by 1986/87. Although the eventual irrigation
potential in Mauritania from the reservoirs may be up to 100,000 ha, there are
major technical, institutional, economic, financial and sociological problems
to be resolved and the development of this resource is considered to be long
term with many unanswered questions.
Institutions
25.      The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR).  The MDR is responsible for
agriculture, livestock and conservation of natural resources. It has five
departments: Administration and Finance, Agriculture, Livestock, National
Resources, and Rural Engineering. In addition, it administers five public
agencies: the National Center for Agricultural Research, the National Center
for Livestock Development, the M'Pourie State Farm, the National School for
Training and Extension, and the national rural development agency, Societe-.
Nationale du Developpement Rural (SONADER). MDR lacks sufficient qualified
national staff, both at the technical and at the policy formulation level, a
shortage that (despite the technical assistance now available, largely
provided by the French government) constitutes a serious obstacle to the
effective development of the agricultural sector.
26.      SONADER.  In the late 1960s and early 1970s Mauritania's almost non-
existent institutional capacity in the rural sector meant that organized
development, particularly of irrigation, was virtually impossible. In 1975,
Government established SONADER as a state rural development agency with the
objectives of identifying, executing, supervising and managing rural develop-
ment projects, particularly irrigation projects. While subject to the super-
vision of the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), SONADER's charter gave it a
substantial degree of administrative and financial autonomy to free it from
the constraints that hamper most governmental institutions in Mauritania. Its
operations were to be financed both from external sources for specific
projects and by Government counterpart contributions for administrative
costs. In practice, SONADER's financial autonomy has been limited because it
is not a revenue earning entity, and the Government's contributions have been
smaller than needed, due to the State's chronic financial difficulties.
SONADER has thus incurred substantial debt to finance recurrent costs, a
situation which adversely affects its financial viability. However, the
Government recently initiated steps to redress this situation. Moreover, as a
condition of effectiveness it has agreed to transfer to SONADER UM40 million
as well as all amounts needed to satisfy SONADER's quarterly cash requirements
(Section 6.01 of the draft DCA).



- 8 -
27.      In 1977, IDA approved a US$3.5 million credit (694-MAU) for a First
Technical Assistance Project to SONADER which financed a team of seven
expatriates for three years, a short-term consultant budget and related
equipment. The project, considered the first stage of a two-phased assistance
plan, aimed at building SONADER into a strong development agency capable of
carrying out a rational investment program for the rural sector. The project
was completed in December 1980. Immediately thereafter an EEC Special Action
Credit of US$1.5 million was approved to continue technical assistance. Two
PPF advances totalling US$1.0 million equivalent were made in March 1982 and
August 1983 respectively to provide bridge financing of the advisors under the
first project (para. 35).
28.      SONADER has been effective in expanding foreign assistance to the
rural sector. Since 1977, projects under its responsibility increased from 9
to 33 and its investment budget from US$2.3 million to US$46.3 million. From
a few hundred hectares, it has developed about 1,700 ha under small irrigation
schemes, a similar area under two medium-scale irrigation schemes (the Kaedi
and Boghe Pilot projects) and is now executing the Gorgol Irrigation project
(see para. 23).
29.      However, in the absence of any other competent organization, SONADER
has become overburdened with tasks which were not initially its responsibil-
ity, but became necessary for the general development of the sector and imple-
mentation of specific projects. Thus, SONADER was called upon to market
produce, provide agricultural credit and extension services, as well as to
formulate rural sector policy and establish an annual program of agricultural
investment for the Ministry of Rural Development. The proposed project would
assist the MDR to formulate a master plan for the development of institutions
in the rural sector, and would promote a gradual transfer of some of SONADER's
responsibilities to other institutions as they gain experience and become
capable of assuming such responsibilities. Meanwhile, Government and donors
realize that SONADER will continue to require external technical assistance to
carry out its tasks.
Constraints to Development
30.      Apart from the severe physical conditions several issues constrain
development:
(i) the weakness of institutions, which stems from the shortage of
trained Mauritanians, implies continued reliance on high-cost
expatriate assistance for many years to come;
(ii) SONADER, although the only reasonably effective institution with
potential for development, suffers from a proliferation of respon-
sibilities, an unduly centralized structure, and inadequate
financing;
(iii) current policies on prices and subsidies put severe pressure on
Government's budget; and



- 9 -
(iv)  the cost of irrigation development is high, limiting the economic
expansion of irrigated areas.
Government's Strategy and Objectives
31.      The Government's development strategy calls for a transfer of
resources to those activities which constitute a renewable base for economic
growth, namely, irrigated agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Thus, with
the exception of the Guelbs Iron Ore project and the port of Nouakchott, the
Government wishes to shift investment from industry arid transport towards the
rural sector with the objectives of maintaining sustainable growth, generating
rural employment and reducing Mauritania's heavy reliance on imported food.
To resolve the basic problem of manpower, Government is receiving technical
and financial assistance from several external sources for training
agricultural experts and supporting the sector's public agencies. Both
activities will be necessary for an extended period.
32.      Although irrigation development will continue to be slow, Government
rightly considers it the only feasible agricultural strategy, through
improving institutions, making better use of manpower resources, lowering unit
costs and increasing yields. In particular, SONADER would be strengthened
and, in agreement with both Government and other financing agencies, its role
confined to project specific activities (identification through operation).
In the context of the proposed project:
(i) MDR has established a Planning Unit for formulating and planning
sectoral priorities, including manpower planning and public agency
development for the rural sector (Section 3.05(i) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement (DCA));
(ii) SONADER headquarters has been reorganized (May 1982) to reduce
unnecessary or duplicative activities and staff. Planning has been
transferred to MDR; a Managing Control Unit has been created to
provide better operating and financial control, and three departments
have been reduced to two (para 39 and Organization Chart);
(iii) SONADER's regional activities are being reorganized to reduce
duplication of common project specific activities and staff (e.g.
workshops and maintenance services);
(iv) Government has agreed to establish and implement a plan to place
SONADER onto a sound financial basis; as a first step, earlier this
year, the Government transferred to SONADER IJM 55 million. Further,
as a condition of effectiveness, the Government has agreed to
transfer to SONADER an amount of UM 40 million. In addition, the
Government has agreed to provide annual budgetary support to ensure
the financial ability of SONADER to carry oul. its tasks. (Sections
4.02(i) and (ii) and 6.01(d) of the draft DCA); and
(v) in order to focus SONADER's activities further the Government will
review the longer-term organization of agricultural activities and
institutions (para. 40(b)) to include:



- 10 -
(a)  confining Government/public agency activities to sector planning
through project execution; and
(b) the development of producer groups which would gradually take
over the management of infrastructure, equipment maintenance,
input distribution and produce marketing.
Bank Role
33.      The Government has reasonably focussed on irrigated agriculture,
livestock and fisheries and we support the simple overall strategy of initial-
ly improving current activities in agriculture and livestock. Thus, in irri-
gation the Bank has recently appraised a small scale project to develop about
1,600 ha of village irrigation schemes, scheduled for FY85. Price and subsidy
policies are being tackled in the context of this project. To assist the
livestock sub-sector a PPF advance of US$250,000 was approved in February 1982
to prepare a second livestock project which would improve animal health and
husbandry practices and the organization of pastoral groups. In fisheries,
government's strategy is to promote joint ventures in private sector which
limits the need for major Bank assistance except possibly in reviewing policy
issues.
34.      Based on past lending experience, our assessment of the country's
economic situation and its prospects for attracting foreign aid, we propose to
continue pursuing the following objectives, through an active macroeconomic
and sector dialogue, and through lending operations where these appear feasi-
ble and justified:
(a) to help the Government in developing the country's few natural
resources so as to broaden the economic base and achieve a modest but
sustained growth in the agricultural sector.
(b) to improve mechanisms for investment programming and project
selection, in order to optimize the allocation of resources and avoid
poor investments in the rural sector;
(c) to help the Government make the best possible use of foreign
assistance;
(d) to assist in monitoring macroeconomic performance and in improving
the design and execution of the overall development program; and
(e) to reduce the heavy budgetary burden created by present financial
policies in the agricultural sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.      In March 1981, the Mauritanian Government confirmed earlier requests
to IDA for assistance with the financing and implementation of a project which



- 11 -
would continue technical assistance to the rural sector. Based on the know-
ledge gained from the First Technical Assistance Proje!ct to SONADER (para. 27)
and on a preparation report prepared in May 1981 by MDR and consultants, a
Bank mission appraised the project in November 1981. Two PPF advances total-
ling US$1.0 million equivalent were approved in March 1982 and August 1983 to
partly finance the continuation of ongoing activities from the First Technical
Assistance Project to SONADER until effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Negotiations were held from August 31 to September 3, 1982 with a Government
delegation led by H.E. Mohamed Ould Amar, Minister of Rural Development. A
supplementary project data sheet is presented in Annex III. A separate
appraisal report has not been prepared.
The Project Objectives and Description
36.      The proposed project would continue IDA's participation in a common
effort of several donors to build up the much needed capability of Mauritania's
rural development capacity. Taking into consideration the present situation
and the outlook for the short-term future, this Second Rural Sector Technical
Assistance Project will continue serving the double purpose of the preceding
operation, which was intended to paliate the shortage of technical staff and
-to provide the professional training which is essential to SONADER's institu-
tional consolidation. While conceived as a follow-up operation, however, the
scope of the proposed project is substantially wider than that of the preced-
ing one. It would: (a) strengthen SONADER as a rural development executing
agency; and, (b) assist with the development of the Planning Unit of MDR to
prepare coherent development policies and strategies to deal with the issues
impairing the country's agricultural production and rural development. The
project would comprise:
(i) strengthening SONADER through a three-year technical assistance
program (management, finance, irrigation, agricultural economics,
credit - 21 man-years), short-term consultant services (final design
and preparation of bidding documents for a new building to establish
SONADER's headquarters, feasibility studies, project support - 125
man-months), in-service and formal training and the provision of
vehicles, laboratory and office equipment; and
(ii)  strengthening the Planning Unit of MDR through a three-year technical
assistance program (agricultural economics, irrigation, finance - 9
man-years), short-term consultant services (institutional develop-
ment, sectoral analysis - 52 man-months), in-service and formal
training and provision of vehicles and office equipment.
Brief details of the project components are summarized in paras. 37 to 44
below.
37.      SONADER.  The project would strengthen the newly-created Management
and Control Unit (Control Unit) and the two departments of SONADER: the
Department of Administration and Finance (DAF), and the Technical Department
(DT) (Chart). To fill the position of the manager of the Control Unit, the
project would provide an expatriate specialized in management and budgetary
control. SONADER has already appointed an acceptable Mauritanian professional



- 12 -
as his deputy. The Control Unit would be responsible for supervising the
preparation of SONADER's operating plan and financial budget and monitoring
its execution (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement (PA)).
38.      The DAF would concentrate its activities on personnel and accounting
matters. The first project provided DAF with considerable support in the form
of assistance from external auditors and through scholarships under which two
local staff were successfully trained as a financial analyst and an accountant.
A senior financial analyst would be appointed as co-director of DAF, a posi-
tion already established under the first project. In addition, the proposed
project would provide consultant services to assist DAF in: (a) devising a
personnel policy, including a thorough revision of training requirements; (b)
establishing the rules and procedures to manage support equipment, stocks and
supplies; and (c) continuing to strengthen the accounting service.
39.      The former Department of Studies and Works and Department of Develop-
ment and Production have been merged into one Technical Department (DT), which
now administers three services - Studies, Construction and Agricultural
Development. In the first project SONADER employed six expatriate technical
specialists for irrigation, design, construction, agricultural engineering,
credit and agricultural economics. With only four years of institutional
experience and with a growing workload, the services of these six expatriate
advisers continue to be required for the new Technical Department. The new
organization is expected to eliminate duplication and improve coordination
between the construction and production work of SONADER. Continuing the
practice established under the first project, the senior irrigation engineer
would become co-director of the Technical Department.
40.      MDR Planning Unit.  The Planning Unit would be responsible for:
(a) formulating agricultural and rural development policies, including,
inter alia: irrigation; production of food crops and livestock,
credit, prices, and marketing; research and training; extension
services; use and protection of natural resources; and development of
infrastructure and social services for the rural population;
(b)  reviewing the functions of each MDR department and public agency
under its supervision, including assessment of existing technical
assistance programs, and identifying the needs for future insti-
tutional and manpower development;
(c) preparing MDR's annual budget including the allocation of financial
resources to cover the recurrent costs and counterpart funds of its
development projects; and
(d) coordinating activities of MDR, on the one hand, and rural sector
related activities of other institutions including public agencies
(such as SONADER) under MDR's supervision, other ministries such as
the Ministries of Planning and Regional Development (MPAT) Commerce,
Transport, and bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, on the other.



- 13 -
41.      Three Mauritanian officials would be appointed to the Planning Unit
by December 31, 1983 under terms of reference acceptable to the Association
(Section 3.05(ii) of DCA). They would form a team withl the three expatriate
experts, and would receive on-the-job training, so that after project comple-
tion they would be able to take over all responsibilit:ies assumed by expatri-
ate experts. The project would also provide the necessary support staff,
transportation and office equipment for the Planning Unit (Annex III, Section 4).
42.      The Planning Unit would use the 40 man-months of short-term consul-
tant services provided by the project to help formulate realistic sector
policies, as well as to establish the needs for institutional development of
the sector, including the preparation of a training program for MDR.
Training
43.      In parallel with other donors' participation, the first technical
assistance project included an on-the-job training component which has posi-
tively contributed to improve the capability of SONADER's staff in administra-
tive and accounting practices. However, given the shortage of local staff,
the scope for short-term impact of the training component is quantitatively
limited and the functions of expatriate staff are primarily to fill the gap
derived from that shortage. Taking into account the experience of the first
project, on-the-job training would continue to take place through the day-to-
day cooperation between expatriate and local staff; the scope of these activi-
ties would be further expanded to include in-service training of Mauritanian
engineers to work in projects under execution and operation in other countries
of North and Sahelian Africa where they would learn from the real experiences
of project development under environmental conditions similar to those
prevailing in Mauritania. The Bank would assist with the arrangements for
these in-service training activities, details of which, as well as of SONADER
and MDR training requirements, would be defined by a specialized consultant
who would prepare a Training Program acceptable to the Association by June 30,
1984 (Section 3.06 of the draft DCA and Section 2.09 of the draft PA).
Consultant Services
44.      Two types of consultant activities are foreseen under the project:
one would consist of institutional support, similar to that discussed above,
in connection with the tasks of SONADER's functional units; the second would
embody project-related activities, such as consultant services required for
the preparation of new projects, or the execution and operation of on-going
projects. The credit would also finance the services of consulting architects
for the preparation of final designs and bidding document for the construction
of a new building where SONADER central services will be housed. For institu-
tional support activities, such as personnel development, organization and
methods and the like, consultant services are expected to be obtained period-
ically so as to ensure a proper monitoring of the recommendations made.
SONADER's consultant services requirements throughout the three-year project
period are estimated at 75 man-months for institutional support activities and
50 man-months for project-related activities (Annex III, Section 3).



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
45.      The total cost of the proposed project, net of identifiable duties
and taxes (of which SONADER and MDR would be exempted) and including refinan-
cing of advances under the PPF, is estimated at US$10.5 million of which
US$6.5 million or about 62 percent is in foreign exchange. Estimated costs
for each project component are given in the project summary. The cost per
man-month has been estimated at US$10,600 for long-term advisors and US$13,000
for short-term consultancies, including travel, subsistence, and overhead.
Financing for the proposed project would be provided by: (i) an IDA credit of
SDR 7.4 million (US$8.1 million equivalent) to the Government, with Credit
proceeds passed on to SONADER in the form of a grant, under a Subsidiary
Agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.01(c) of draft DCA); (ii) a FAC grant of US$1.5 million equivalent; and
(iii) a Government/SONADER contribution of US$0.9 million equivalent. The IDA
credit would finance 84 percent of foreign costs and 65 percent of local
costs. The FAC would finance two long-term advisers: the financial analyst
of the MRD's Planning Unit and the agroeconomist of SONADER's Technical
Department; FAC would also finance the housing, vehicles and related operating
costs for these two long-term advisers. Over the three years of the project
life, this package would amount to about $1.1 million equivalent. The balance
up to the US$1.5 million equivalent to be contributed by FAC would be used to
finance short-term consultant services for MRD. The Government and SONADER
would finance all local personnel, except the administrative assistant, three
secretaries, and one accountant in MRD.
Revolving Fund
46.      For the MDR component, two revolving funds would be established to
facilitate project implementation. The first referred to as the Special
Account, would cover all items financed by IDA for MDR, except consultant
services and training expenditures (for which direct payment procedure would
be used), and salaries and allowances of resident advisors. Opening of the
Special Account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section
6.01(b) of the draft DCA). Upon Credit effectiveness, an amount of SDR 60,000
equivalent would be withdrawn from the Credit account for deposit into the
Special Account. Further replenishments would be made by IDA on receipt of
satisfactory evidence that the funds were used to finance eligible expendi-
tures at the percentage rates agreed for each category. However, should any
disbursement from the Special Account fail to meet eligibility criteria, the
Government would have to deposit the corresponding amount into the account
from its own resources (Section 2.02(f) of draft DCA). As an additional
condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government would open another account,
referred to as the Borrower's Account, at a commercial bank for payment of its
own counterpart contributions for MDR component (Sections 3.07 and 6.01(c) of
the draft DCA).
Procurement
47.      (a)  Consultants.  Foreign staff serving in SONADER under the first
Technical Assistance Project are likely to be offered contract extensions



- 15 -
acceptable to IDA. For the new positions to be financed by IDA in SONADER and
MRD, Bank guidelines would apply. Regardless of the source of financing,
detailed terms of reference for each permanent position. would follow the out-
lines presented in Annex III, Section 5 and would have to be acceptable to
IDA. Individuals or consulting firms selected to carry out permanent or short
term assignments would be acceptable to IDA.
(b) Laboratory equipment and vehicles financed by IDA, amounting
respectively to US$100,000 and US$220,000 equivalent, would be acquired
through limited international tender acceptable to IDA; as under the previous
project, other equipment would be procured using local competitive bidding
procedures, acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
48.      Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) for resident advisers, short-term consultants and training, 100% of
total expenditures (US$5.6 million equivalent);
(b)  for MDR Planning Unit, one administrative assistant, three
secretaries, and one accountant, 89% of total expenditures (US$0.1
million equivalent);
(c) for vehicles, office and laboratory equipment, 100% of total
expenditures (US$0.32 million equivalent);
(d) for operation and maintenance, 54% of total ex]penditures (US$0.22
million equivalent);
(e)  for the initial deposit in the Special Account, a lump sum of about
$65,000 equivalent; and
(f) for refinancing the PPF advance, 100% of total amount withdrawn
(US$1.0 million equivalent).
An amount of US$0.8 million equivalent would remain unallocated. Disburse-
ments would be fully documented except for those for operating costs and
acquisition of minor items each costing less than $5,000 and not exceeding in
the aggregate $100,000 which would be made against certificate of expendi-
tures; supporting documentation would be kept by SONADERt and MDR to be
reviewed in the course of supervision and annual auditing of accounts
(Sections 4.01(c) of draft DCA, 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft PA). The IDA
Credit is expected to be disbursed in four years (see Credit and Project
Summaries). The expected schedule of disbursements is based on the experience
of the First Technical Assistance Project to SONADER.
Auditing of Accounts
49.      The accounts for the SONADER component would continue to be main-
tained by SONADER. For the MDR component, the Planning Unit would establish
and maintain project accounts. SONADER accounts are satisfactorily audited by



- 16 -
independent auditors as a matter of course under the on-going technical
assistance program; this practice would continue under the proposed project
(Section 4.02(a) of the draft PA). The expenditures of the Planning Unit of
the MDR would be audited under the same principle and arrangements used for
SONADER (Section 4.01 of the draft DCA). The audit fee for MDR would be
covered by the credit.
Benefits and Risks
50.      The project would strengthen SONADER's managerial capability and
consolidate the progress attained through the previous project. Similarly,
MDR is expected to start developing the capabilities needed to formulate an
adequate agricultural policy. The major uncertainties encountered in any
project of this nature are difficulties in recruiting qualified expatriate
experts capable of understanding the country s problems and contributing to
the training of Mauritanian professionals as well as in recruiting and train-
ing local staff. There is also an uncertainty as to the extent to which the
government would follow the policy and program recommendations stemming from
the project, particularly for the MDR component. Experience shows that none
of these risks can be fully eliminated. Efforts would be made to assist
SONADER and the Government in their search for qualified candidates. For
SONADER, several advisors who have proved themselves to be competent under the
previous project would be retained. For the recruitment and training of local
staff, comprehensive training programs including formal and on-the-job train-
ing would be provided, not only to train, but also to attract local techni-
cians to join SONADER. Nonetheless, the training to be provided is but one
element in Government's effort to redress the key issue of the trained man-
power shortage (para. 17). Finally, IDA would carry out regular reviews,
directly with the authorities concerned, on the results of feasibility studies
and recommendations proposed for sector policies and programs, and then to
monitor closely the follow-up measures being taken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and SONADER, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.      Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section I of Annex III of this report. Special conditions of Credit
effectiveness include: (i) opening of the Special Account, (ii) opening of
the Borrower's Account (para. 46), (iii) execution of the Subsidiary Agreement
between the Borrower and SONADER (para. 45); and (iv) Government transferring
to SONADER an amount of UM 40 million, as well as amounts needed to meet
SONADER's cash requirements for each quarter (para. 26).



- 17 -
53.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
September 9, 1983



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                                   Page 1
T A B L E 3A
MAURITANIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
4MOST                        (MOST RECENT EStlMATE) /b
lb           lb  RECENT  /             MIUDDLE INCOME             111ULt INCOtE
-  1960-     1970-  ESTIMATEL-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. C)
TOTAL                                  1030.7        1030.7       1030.7
AGRICULTURAL                            404,0         395.3        394.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        110.0        220.0         460.0               1147.9                       1340.0
ER!GY CO3NSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ta.o         168.0        199.0                 724.2                        810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATiON,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)         970.0        1214.0       1560.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             3.4          12.8         24.4                  28.5                         47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                     2.6
STATIONARY POPULArIoN  (MILL)                                      7.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2155
PI)PULATIOG DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             0.9           1.2          1.5                  56.5                         3t.0
PLR SQ. KM. AGRI. LANU                  2.4           3.1          3.9                 L31.8                        449.0
POPULATION AG.E STRUCTURE (7.)
0-14 YES                              44.0         45.3          46.Z                 45.9                          41.9
15-64 YRS                              53.3          52 .O        51.0                 5.z                           52.IS
65 ANiD ABOVE                           2.7           2.7          2.7                   2.8                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH KATE (E)
TOTAL                                   2.2           2.2          2.3                   2.8                          2.9
URBAN                                  16.2          15.5          8.1                   5.3                          4.4
CUUDE 01RT11 RATE (PER TIIOUS)           50.7          49.9         43.6                  47.6                         42.5
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER TitOUS)            27. 1         23.9         20.3                  15.2                         12.0
GROSS REPRODUcTON RArE                    3.4           3.4          2.9                   3.2                          3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..            ..
USERS (4 OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..            ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROS. PER CAPirA
(1969-71=100)                           107.0         102.0         79.0                 95.7                          97.5
PEA CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (7 OF REQUIREMENTS)           93.0          89.0         97.0                 97.1                         102.3
PROTEINS (GRAtS PER DAY)               80.0          7a.0         75.0                 56.0                          72.o
OF  sUCH ANIAAi. AND PULSE           Sl.          S1.0          44.0/c               17.2                          17.8
CGILO (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              42.7          36.1         30.0                 23.b                          15.2
EALITH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.2          4U.3         44.4                  S1.9                         57.2
IN[ANT MOOT. RAIC (PER TOUS)           184.6        161.9         140.7                117.6                         IU4.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (sPOP)
TOrAL                                    ..          17.0           ..                 25.4                          D9.3
[L[AN                                               98.0          16.0/d               70.5                          84.9
RURAL                                    . .         10.0           .1. 2.3                                          37.5
ACCESS To EXCKErA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..            ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             40420.0       17850.0       14350.0/c            12181.6                        3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                5430.3/e    4480.0         2080.077             2292.0                        1620.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                4738.1       2890.0        26lo.0/c,f           1075.4                         643.3
URBAN                                    ..        700.0        I310.Ui,7E            402.3                         545.0
RURAL                                52E0.0/e,f  5370.0         3710.0Orf            3926.7                       24s2.0
AOMISSIOUS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..            ..            ..                   ..                         26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIDE OF HOUSEHOLO
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
UKBAN                                    ..            ..           ..
RUSAL                                    ..            ..           ..
AVERAGE SO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
UKBAN                                    ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..            ..            ..
ACCESS ro ELECT. (7. OF DWELLINGS)
TOTA.                                    ..            ..           ..                    ..                        4621
URBAN                                    ..            ..           ..                    ..                         77.6
RURAL                                                                                                                t 6 .1



- 19 -
Annex I
Page 2
T A B L E 3A
MAURITANIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-k       1970Z-b  ESTIMATE-       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      8.0          14.0         33.0                97.2                        89.6
MALE                      13.0         20.0         43.0               103.L                       104.o
FEMALE                     3.0          8.0         23.0                88.5                        72.b
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      0.4           2.0         10.0                17.2                        41.7
MALE                       1.0          4.0         16.0                23.;                         52.8
FEMALE                    0.04          0.4          4.0                14.2                        31.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)               ..         12.5           ..                 5.2                        10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              20.0         24.0          41.0                42.9                        31.9
SECONDARY                            17.0          24.0         25.0/g              23.7                        23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  5.0/h       10.0         17.0/&              37.1.                       43.3
CoNSUNNTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.4           3.4           ..                18.S                        18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            12.4        45.3          98.5                97.E                       138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..           ..                18.f,                       45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..          2.4/i         ..                18.2                        31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..          0.3/c               0.6                         1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             299.0         362.0       449.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      3.8          4.1          4.3                 36.1                        10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                91.0         88.0          69.0                56.8                        42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    3.0          4.0          8.0                 17.5                        27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.9         29.8          28.8                37.0                        25.6
MALE                                  59.8         57.8         55.0                47.1                        45.4
FEMALE                                2.3          2.4           2.5                27.0                         5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6          1.7                 1.3                         1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HIGHEST 20% OF ROUSEHOLDS                            ...--
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                534.2                       276.1
RURAL                                   ..          ..        I11.0/g              255.9                       177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        330.0/g              491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                   ..          ..        120.0/g              188.1                       283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                   ..                        22.0
RURAL                                   ..          ..           ..                   ..                        30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N o T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 ,nd 1961;  Dat.a for 1970'  between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 19I1. Revised  estimate   for  1981:  US$433.
/c 1977; /d 1976; /e 1962; /f Covernment hospital establishments; /g 1978; /h Prior to 1965; /i 1972.
May 1983



- 20 -                                                       ~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3
ttroNITIoOS PP SoCIAL IOPDiCAORSt
tests:  k1h-9o1,heaeaedeo   rm   ore   enrly the                       thewot-une  .aiv  and rel table i  shud elan be notedthehy ma   otb  ioteentmnallp
reepareble beosase atnt akofsadardited defl fi -Ilneedcocpt                     .sd bydfentoaoteielltigthdt.Tedtta, noeheles * cufa  t
decieodrIfsguud   Iist. treds, and chauot..el.es ceett  eaJ., difto.nente. he tenonne-
jftnoell I._O  Ine  efenenegrou  dec  the.o. ageI se  popla ton1 regI-d riteitohen   o  egottrd1.idd                tEtortd   hnL    e        fy een ajoit  ofI the. ot.eete1 i
getupbe  date for thor indtntel         ic  t:he :eaeo   onre   tn   ib   riatr eede on the ailobility of date oL                            sntchrt stn   uih
seernisedienleting  eeragne otoeicdlceioroevotber.Thes-   ecgte      -oopsful inoo-peritgthenalosofo...Iedrsoeteersagh.totty td
AREt Ith-ou.and gq,kr.)                                                                            Peultonte           -alia-rv ste  dittOed by noher of prgttlinit
Teta     Toe) ttf ac  are  coreltetog intd area  end inland eaer; 196h0,                  1phy1iteeqilid I           m- a sediPp.taieto-   tiid onees trye tenet.
1971 ecd  Sr  ae                                                                                erdeitntttiePesn    ooat                      i ide    -rvsbro   ratoe
AMeicut1urat1   tess   f agn1Icuincal are  used  -,-,raily orpraetymaeedftl  grdaetse,assecotes   etiato-   h
for crops  palttore, strid  and kitchen gardeve or n  lie fala;16,                              usr   cotain
197   an  E91Data.0                                                                              -otaion  ret b-iee  tntted   tota..  uh.   und . toa 1- Pep-1attas )trt
GNP FE. G  - GNP p_                                                       P-P~~~~~~~~~~~~ohe,  and-  Boe    lied ty she it repciv    uhtbfb-itlhd
lIn  pa tny   Ile)-  nepeccautaee 'ate   a  crrac  aclecruces,         nalebs  n pblc  nd  rinc  getel sd  peosdte  hspial55
teclae   h   ae  onetonscode  ard  oktro  )9991hal)                     rbhltm  incetr.-deptl  ar  eAfalseet  phenPteot1  stffd
1960, 1970, en  190d ane.9urbanbasIta                                                                               'ndr grog prsia Pgneal  epeLe , and core
date,                                                                             from baspinelt divided hy tbt number o -'I.1  edi.: -'efhede.   b.   y ..i.
sco1ou97    c;10    ,  90  ed19  dane.            gieca.e S.tee of- ueod)rrveIr oehl)-ttl-ohr   n   aa
Poroleniot rtvjttttoo   -L   bnel    neido at,agopo   oiool5tn  hr   tegqatr
Pu96   tni   er  00-Creteyuatnpuetun   e   er   n190adtermi   eaa        are   e  ogrmyo   a  nrb  olddi
esausieg   roline inft en -ils   auur le  no Inue  1e6el ae1 eo9a7y0uee  tfecnct Itercen c-I duel t-Inge -- ictal,  ro,an   oa
aisrtu    - reoiturean                                                                          . heI   cloe   nyate   etlt.cnsAjae  Inhollen   ntv
dertln  na  he reteurent tnet u  ocinnet  epeadtninoate-   then                   Prmr  col-ntl   aeadfs Le                      d - Irs   aa  ml  n   e
frtil icyrae   on plocene-  -rel                                                                 chnetevt   otecleuenn  nuletnpersa   t   eaa
puueea   ir  ilb  reached.f                                                               tecedtyh- hocd -. toa,      _ae  n   es     -Cmutdasaee;stode
te tlanu   aae                                                                                    edcatr  rqirs  t  earfor  easlcap....ptaryreeat_o
Pen  o. k, - id-yac  ppulaian  er  qour  bllcate  110  hecacee  nfprondet  enerl, ntatInal,ye.eat..r Ligt  og -enrottamffe
toalaea  IRO,190  ardlol  dn.Pop..a osuly    _ 10et 17  er,                                                                       fae   oceptectasme
Pen so.ho, eanyleura  land - Lomuedaf     aae  for sac_                                                     P__no-atland  generulip doc...ed
nely; 1960, 1970 and 1990     LY  deno.                                                docationalerion   rreta   evdue ,oainliaiat
popblatlco,lh,  191     fn 91dt.                     Entl-teateI  etto - -ert Icy  ad ettindunTc                                                        tdoeenoldi
peer popoPattoc;tlOin,L1970hand 1981 data..Cf10dnllily
Crd beahfrele  cnsdl. -          h dyul  eth. e t hc.... o. d o   nd-ea                EDUATIOeNerCs(prhoadcputn)-ynsnecrerpnes
he   nml repoueieprcIftevrtcepretaa- pec1lfI lioc                                            adiyReeivrs  re Rthostn    naait       l  ypsa   ene                    o   ai
eggs.                                                                                      1 iuneaed-decetoery ... isnn-  -tenr od t nepl"   y1-e  he  ceieInof  rad.Iio
v  Irth-contro   etv   ne   v  toou   etotLn    pla_tengYcoutris bolishe.d 1'P'"cerallying.d
pruras                                                                                    PVtcler   erncvadtruaat     70 reeirer   far hea tas  tn
PeRl  Paning-cry(ecn   ttrre    oe        ecnaec    ccffnelpbi   e  thoorand peposantb..  th entuntnntunedfOeciA                                                        r
eAser. vi chl- Hrecpg   IlI             et'h   n  b                -rb-onru   daletfruccr   n   npaeoe erg2~ tIcuu  Cf  0mtsd _u  i  efee
eRgrtdcvyIn totc   co.Stcoe     ec en   nrenuodpnl u l - d On                                                                                        i. ry -utrace
POlthu- NUTRTIO                                                                                   rlcvult cddol  ineII,ecec   espI--deiedg-apeiia
frOm  ci  cu  yccduc-tcn pe  Capta  19P-ll.idOI  P-cu  uPpe.r.ln                                           ..h Icn; D unucdrenaly-   Ifcurltuteo   en    t  scnie
a-nuo   1960lnusnl,a   usoilt   ruucuacpdneon 1970be "dully'' If t1-ppra-sIc  tedso four n-etnuasek.                                                                     t
cr.Itieced  feuac 6ih  r lee'y.    ,dtblt . and nunnaty    f cuntena  r .d  icetsiddcu  csya,hnldto   dtoin    cdrn-nct                                                  a
cofe  n  ea1 ens cccl ..ed).  cgceve--duclnufechconryiinbieuno
Yoae  o  cachucl fucecage60 producer0prIc  ongho  Iri9hy1-dh.....1970, andt dt19r811J
dvcg.                                                                             1.72c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  r ecoc
topats,. sofeuos  6v snuck7, Son       1 moyle  enid   nsife,ned,rmaol;160   90ad18   ae
CradocitOseRused  vsu   rcsla   o  loen- chdscebocon,P-nte  e   rrr    Penle lbor .oec  anpecntgeo tota labor frce.
otitt   n 9hat  tc9olde          li e bctacenta  nePento bh-dy efgt                       fIhig  s  ecetae  ftoa  labortI  fudc 15  ..lh. 197  cd   18   r
at: hoothodlv) 1916, .d1970 ed 1980                                                           CONSUMPTaNdeetIIyaseaadanmenrucpofaalabrac;59
Pet caytta surely ci yr-cdt -ncet er  due)h- Proeicronc-d   ufPirat. caia.90.u.                            91  oe
ne  sPply  P  od eidy.hcsplyv 1c960itd1970cdandahuc. P-_ci  luaciu  toeIecn       otl   at  n                                                          aI-etciaire
puls  proepin, of   ich1 preei nyul  hocill ren                bte-                            I9_ 17,  o   191- dagta  Thee-- er _eeIclI'   stvpe  toae
ofe_teul pucte   oncrtfrhracl..P                     eneby"Inoe                                 Red   nsomreeounnesoc
Thid Oel  Food Sovy; lOh-hI,                                      , 190  nd.9..dna...t.i .eea ea  tvtt                       d - fct  o        Aup lelu  oe   5ed6   n    eet
date.                                                                      omcoet RtSenItcnoon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .d..el
Chid lner1-C  trth  onelyr A  1thousa d)    -   Accuah deac - pet -hona  - inPratg   f  t                          outli -bet  in  clcu_       id -e iteneined brIcf    s
vtonboo thR-tcbododone ORooc
FAt Irt;16,190ad1t  dt.eSlh   nepe a.ihdunhccdealtotin
teet   otlityl fat.(y rthosan)         e  -unu l dch  ci  ifunn-e-n itn Pate     bs lh-t                              - P pp,ty ine      TVe US e  capte   b-dachen antcro
astesppyIlcldnteae   ufac   aes  ruteaeIufttscduta  n  PneyInveCnt   01yt  aig  -ohren   ae 
frmahddryb   oedrda  bigc  hneuval   ceno  than                                            Osn ii-ue   ooatnblsAsln  Pons-cy I. cos  idelloen)                     _uc      l
coral-_- Numbr o  peoldedIttel                                                                   Iiten,tad rural  nerved-yteret
may et;iadePI one    -"Itn   ' in  and ll disosa, vOoirmnc s  Ibot C.treaen,n                                                          Ico-sc  solauil  ea  id
e Yt.e andt-dia  iatatttfue                                                                                                                       aydit



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
MAURITANIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, in constant prices)
US$ Mln.          _                               1973-76 (Av.)        1977-80        1981
GNP at Market Prices                           683.3          100.0                                  2.4                  -            4.C
Gross Domestic Investment                      269.9            39.4                                 9.4                -1.5           2.E
Gro3s National Saving                           33-9            4.9
Current Account Balance                       -236.0           34.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                          329.7           48.3                                 -1.7                 0.8          -6.4
Imports of Goods, NFS                         -553.9           81.0                                 17.8               -12.2           2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added                       Labor Force                  V.A. Per Worker
US$Mln.        _                  Thousand      %                   US$         %
Agr.culture                    177.1        28.1                  309.8     69.0                  571.7      40.7
InduLstry                      106.7        16.9                   35.9      8.0                2,972.1    211.4
Services and Unallocated       347.6        55.0                  103.3     23.0                3,365.0    239.3
T'otal/Average              631.3       100.0                 449.0    100.0                 1,406.0    100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
UM Mln.               Percent of GDP
1982             1982          1979-81 (Av.)
Current Receipts                    6,293             16.9             19.2
Current Expenditure                -8,856             23.7             29.2
Current Balance                    -2,563              6.9             10.0
Capital Expenditure                -7,949             21.3             22.9
Overall Balance                   -10,512             28.2             32.8
External Assistance (net)           8,731             23.4             28.8
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1980      1981       1982
(Million UM Outstanding end-Period)
Money and Quasi- Money                          7,080      9,430      9,672
Claias on Public Sector                         1,628      2,434      3,170
Claims on Private Sector                       10,081    11,263    12,758
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP                23.4       27.8       25.9
General Price Index (1980 = 100)                100.0      119.4      134.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                              10.7       19.4       12.4
Claims on Public Sector                          12.8       49.5       30.2
Claims on Private Sector                         13.4       12.3       13.3
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.



-22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
MAURITANIA
TRADE, PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
-ALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980-82 Av.)
1973         1977              1981    1982 1/                                                           US$ Mln
(Million us$)                                  Iron Ore                              155.5         65.6
Fish Products                          78.8        33.3
XDorts of Goods, NFS                144.7         178.4            342.8   329.7                         All Other Commodities                    2.8         1.t
emports of Goods NFS                -154.8        -373.8            -547.8  -553-9
7esource Gap (deficit = -)            -10.1       -195.3            -205.0  -224.2                              Total                            237.1       100.0
nterest Payments (net)                -2.0        -14.6              -3.3    -8.1
-orkers  Remittances                 -14.5         -27.6             -20.6   -23.0
Ither Factor Payments (net)           -5.1           3.5              -1.3    -1.0
llet Transfers                        31.2         120.4              67.7    20.3                         EXTERNAL DEBT, as of December 31, 1982
ualance on Current Account             -0.5       -113.6            -IX2W  -236.0
US$ Mln
~irect Foreign Investment             10.3           4.4              22.3    17.1
,et M & L/T Borrowing                   8.6         55.4              98.8   148.0                         Public Debt, ic. guaranteed                       827.0
Disbursements                   (11.0)        (87.5)          (134.4) (171.3)                        Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                    (-2-4)      (-32.1)             (35-7) (-23-4)                       Total Outstanding and Disbursed                   827.0
Capital Grants                          8.4         13.6              32.9    19.2
,:ther Capital (net)                 -14.2          -1.9
Other Items n.i.e.                    -13.2          0.9          J                                                                       2/
fncrease in Reserves (7) 0               .T         4 77   -90.0                                           DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1982 -
'-roes Reserves (end year)            44.9          77.2             193.9   130.0
Net Reserves (end year)                 7.7        -38.4             -27.4  -117.4                         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                      12.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
ouel and Related Materials                                                                                Total Outstanding and Disbursed                     12.0
Imports                            ..
of which: Petroleum             9.9         30.6              63.9    67.0
Exports                            -             -                 -        -
of which: Petroleum              -            -                 -        -                         IBRD/IDA LENDING as of June 30, 1983
US$ Million
RNAT  OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                                               IBRD       IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed            47.1       43.7
US$1.00 = UM                        44.54         45.68             48.26   52.15                       Undisbursed                           12.9        2.6
Outstanding inol. Undisbursed        60.0      46.4
- / Provisional.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
August, 1983



- 23 -
Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                            --- US$ million 
Credit Number    Year    Borrower       Purpose               Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One Loan and Ten Credits fully disbursed                      66.0    38.2
888.-MAU          1979    Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                  8.0          2.8
1747-MAU          1980    SNIM          Guelbs Iron Ore       60.0                  20.8
1068-MAU          1981    Mauritania   Gorgol Irrigation               15.0          9.7
1175-MAU          1982    Mauritania   Petroleum                        3.0          2.2
1214-MAU          1982    Mauritania   Second Education                 5.7          5.1
1231-MAU 2/       1982    Mauritania   Fourth Highway                   4.0          4.0
1292-MAU 2/       1982    Mauritania   Second Technical
Assistance                   4.6          4.6
TOTAL                              126.0    78.5         49.2
of which has been repaid          66.0     1.6
Total now outstanding               60.0    76.9
Amount sold                 63.4
of which has been repaid   63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/ 60.0    76.9           49.2
Total undisbursed                   20.8    28.4         49.2
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Section 1
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of key events
Time taken to prepare project:             4 months
Project prepared by:                       Government, consultant and IDA
Identification:                            Through supervision of ongoing
Technical Assistance Project
Appraisal mission:                         November 1981
Negotiations:                              September 1982
Planned date of effectiveness:             January 31, 1984
Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Special Conditions
The Government or SONADER, as the case may be, have provided
assurances on the following principal items:
(a) that the financial rehabilitation pIan for SONADER would be imple-
mented, including budgetary allocation and timely transfer of
sufficient funds to ensure the financial viability of SONADER (para.
32(iv));
(b) three Mauritanian officials would be appointed to the Planning Unit
by December 31, 1983, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association (para. 41);
(c)  the on-the-job and scholarship training needs of SONADER, MDR's
Planning Unit as well as other MDR departments would be identified
and a program satisfactory to IDA would be prepared by June 30, 1984
(para. 43);



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Section 1
Page 2
(d)  terms of reference for each permanent advisor's position would be
satisfactory to the Association, regardless of the sources of
financing. Individuals or consulting firms selected to carry out
permanent or short-term assignment will be acceptable to IDA (para.
47); and
(e)  As conditions of Credit Effectiveness, Government would:  (i) open
the Special Account to cover selected items for MDR financed by IDA;
(ii) open the Borrowers Account for the payment of the Government
counterpart contribution; (iii) transfer to SONADER UM 40 million to
cover Government arrears and such amount as needed to meet SONADER's
quarterly cash requirements; and (iv) execute the Subisdiary
Agreement between the Borrower and SONADER (paras. 26, 45, and 46).



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Section 2
Page 1
Tentative Equipment List
Equipment                                  Unit Cost  Quantity  Total Cost
7-us$s-7-              (us$)
MDR
(a) Vehicles
Type A                             12,000         2        24,000
Type B                             20,000         1        20,000
Sub-total                                                     44,000
(b) Office
Typewriter                          1,330         3         4,000
Copy machine (large)               14,000         1        14,000
Copy machine (small)                2,000         1         2,000
Sub-total                                                     20,000
Total                                                         64,000
SONADER
(a) Vehicles
Type A                             12,000         5        60,000
Type B                             20,000         3        60,000
Sub-total                                                    120,000
(b) Office
Typewriters                         1,330        12        16,000
Copy machine (large)               14,000         4        56,000
Copy machine (small)                2,000         4         8,000
Sub-total                                                     80,000



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Section 2
Page 2
Section 2: Tentative Equipment List (Cont'd)
Equipment                                    Unit Cost  Qua:ntity  Total Cost
(uS$)                  (US$)
SONADER
(c) Laboratory
Flame photometer, with filters
for Na, K, Ca and built-in or
separate air compressor            12,000         1        12,000
Beckman pH meter                       2,000         2        4,000
Solubridge with conductivity cells  1,500           2         3,000
Vacuum pump                            1,500         1        1,500
Analytical balance                     2,000         2        4,000
Triple-beam balance                     500         2         1,000
Centrifuge, International 2
with speed control                  6,000         1         6,000
Water distiller, single stage,
electric (3 phase 220V) with
spare heating elements              4,000         1         4,000
Soil moisture extractor with
compressor and manifold             6,000         1         6,000
Soil pulverizer (ore crusher)         1,000         2         2,000
Oven, small, forced air               1,500         2         3,000
Furnace, muffle                        1,000        2         2,000
Pressure extractor                     1,500         1        1,500
Hydraulic conductivity rack
and tubes                              50       1(0         5,000
Soil hydrometers and cylinders          200         5         1,000
Colorimeter                           3,000         1         3,000
Glassware                                                    10,000
Plastiware                                                    5,000
Chemicals                                                    10,000
Furniture                                                     6,000
Undetermined                                                 10,000
Sub-total                                                      100,000
Total                                                               300,000



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Section 2
Page 3
Tentative Equipment List
EquiPment                                  Unit Cost  Quantity  Total Cost
(us$)                  (us$)
MDR
(a) Vehicles
Type A                             12,000          2       24,000
Type B                             20,000          1       20,000
Sub-total                                                     44,000
(b) Office
Typewriter                          1,330         3         4,000
Copy machine (large)               14,000         1        14,000
Copy machine (small)                2,000         1         2,000
Sub-total                                                     20,000
Total                                                         64,000
SONADER
(a) Vehicles
Type A                             12,000         5        60,000
Type B                             20,000         3        60,000
Sub-total                                                    120,000
(b) Office
Typewriters                         1,330        12        16,000
Copy machine (large)               14,000         4        56,000
Copy machine (small)                2,000         4         8,000
Sub-total                                                     80,000



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Section 2
Page 4
Section 2: Tentative Equipment List (Cont'd)
Equipment                                    Unit Cost  Quantity  Total Cost
(us$)                  (us$)
SONADER
(c) Laboratory
Flame photometer, with filters
for Na, K, Ca and built-in or
separate air compressor            12,000         1        12,000
Beckman pH meter                      2,000          2        4,000
Solubridge with conductivity cells  1,500            2        3,000
Vacuum pump                            1,500         1         1,500
Analytical balance                     2,000         2        4,000
Triple-beam balance                      500         2        1,000
Centrifuge, International 2
with speed control                  6,000          1        6,000
Water distiller, single stage,
electric (3 phase 220V) with
spare heating elements              4,000         1         4,000
Soil moisture extrator with
compressor and manifold             6,000         1         6,000
Soil pulverizer (ore crusher)          1,000        2         2,000
Oven, small, forced air                1,500         2        3,000
Furnace, muffle                        1,000        2         2,000
Pressure extractor                     1,500         1        1,500
Hydraulic conductivity rack
and tubes                               50      100         5,000
Soil hydrometers and cylinders           200         5        1,000
Colorimeter                           3,000          1        3,000
Glassware                                                    10,000
Plastiware                                                    5,000
Chemicals                                                    10,000
Furniture                                                     6,000
Undetermined                                                 10,000
Sub-total                                                       100,000
Total                                                                300,000



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Section 3
Page 1
Section 3: SONADER Consultant Requirements
Activity                                 Man-months
Institutional support
Documentation                                    3
Personnel management                            12
Training                                        12
Procurement, equipment and stocks                6
Auditing                                        12
Accounting                                      15
Undetermined                                    15
Sub-total                                       75
Specific Projects                                  50
Total                                             125



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Section 4
Page 1
Section 4: Detailed Cost Estimates
(a)   Long-term advisers
Position                  Salary  Allowances    Travel        Total
---------------US$/month---------------
SONADER
Control Unit Manager            8,500      2,500         500 1/   11,500
Co-director DAF                 7,500      2,500         500      10,500
Co-director DT                  7,500      2,500         500       10,500
Sr. Ag. Engineer (Ag. Dpt.)    7,500       2,500         500      10,500
Irrigation Engineer (Studies)  7,500       2,500         500      10,500
Irrigation Engineer (Works)    8,500       2,500         500      11,500
Sr. Ag.Economist                7,000      2,500         500      10,000
Credit Specialist               7,000      2,500         500      10,000
Total                          61,000    20,000        4,000      85,000
US$85,000 x 36 months = US$3,060,000
MDR
Leader                          8,000      2,500         500      11,000
Specialist 1                    7,000      2,500         500       10,000
Specialist 2                    7,000      2,500         500      10.000
Total                          22,000      7,500       1,500      31,000
US$31,000 x 36 months = US$1,116,000
(b) Short-term consultants
SONADER                             MDR
Number of                        Number of
months    Per month   Total      months    Per month   Total
------(US$)------                ----  (US$)-----
Fees              125      10,000   1,250,000        52      10,000    520,000
Subsistence      125        2,800      350,000      52        2,800    146,000
Travel 2/                               50,000                           34,000
Total                                1,650,000                          700,000
1/   Estimated at US$6,000 per family per year*
2/   Estimated at US$1,000 per round trip; SONADER, 50 trips; MDR, 34 trips.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Section 4
Page 2
(c) Operation and maintenance of vehicles
Type A       Type B
-_(USkm) ----
Spare parts           30            22
Fuel                  20            12
Lubrication            4             4
Insurance, tags        6             6
60           44
SONADER
No. vehicles                    3            5
Km/year                   30,000        20,000
Cost (US$)                54,000        66,000
MDR
No. vehicles                    1            2
Km/year                   24,000        20,000
Cost (US$)                14,400        17,600



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Section 4
Page 3
(d) Projected schedule of expenditures
PY1       PY2        PY3        Total
----------US$ thousand)-----------
SONADER
1. Personnel
Long-term advisers              1,020      1,020       1,020     3,060
Short-term consultants            530        630         590     1,750
Local staff                       180        180         170        530
Sub-total                       1,730      1,830       1,780     5,340
2.  Training                               40        40          40        120
3. Equipment
Vehicles (acq.)                   120          -           -        120
Vehicles (O + M)                  120        120         120       360
Laboratory                         40         30          30        100
Office                             50         30                    80
Sub-total                         330        180         150       660
Base Cost                              2,100      2,050       1,970      6,120
PPF advance                              750          -           -        750
Price contingencies                       150       310         450        910
Total                                  3,000      2,360       2,420      7,780
MDR
1. Personnel
Long-term advisers                370        370         380     1,120
Short-term consultants            240        240         220       700
Local Staff                       100        100         110       310
Sub-total                         710        710        710      2,130
2.  Training                               30        30          20         80
3. Equipment
Vehicles (acq.)                    44          -           -        44
Vehicles (O + M)                   32         32          32        96
Office                             20          -           -        20
Sub-total                          96         32          32       160
Base Cost                                836        772         762      2,370
Price contingencies                        64       118         168        350
Total                                    900        890         930      2,720
GRAND TOTAL                            3,900      3,250       3,350    10,500



ANNEX III
Section 4
Page 4
Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project
Project Cost Estimate
MDR     SONADER              TOTAL                       MDR    SONADER             _   TOTAL                      %
Local    Foreign      Total                              Local       Foreign       Total
---(UM million) --------------------                       (--------      (US$ thousand)---------------------
Personnel
Permanent foreign staff*          52.6    143.8       68.6      127.8        196.4          1120   3060        1460        2720           4180       49.8
Short-term consultants            32.9      82.3      37.6       77.6        115.2           700   1650         840        1.610         2450        28.0
Local staff                       14.6      24.9      39.5        -           39.5           310    530         840           -            840        10.0
Sub-total                         100.1   251.o       145.7    205.4         351.1          2130   5240        3140        4330          7470        87.8
Training                                3.8     5.6        1.9       7.5          9.4            80    120           40         160           200         2.4
Equipment
Vehicles (acq)                      2.1      5.6        0.4       7.3          7.7            44    120            8         156           164         2.0
Vehicles (O + M)                    4.5    16.9         6.2      15.2         21.4            96    360          132         324           456         5.4
Office                              0.9      3.8        0.5       4.2          4.7            20      80          10          90           100         1.2
Laboratory                            -      4.7        0.5       4.2          4.7             -    100           10          90           100         1.2
Sub-total                           7.5    31.0         7.6      30.9         38.5           160    660         160         660            820         9.8
Base cost                             111.4   287.6      155.2    243.8         399.0          2370   6020         3400        5150          8490       100
PPF Advance                             -      35.3       12.2      23.1         35.3            -      750         260         490           750         8.9
Price contingencies                    16.9    42.3       23.0      36.2         59.2           360    900          490         770          1260        15.0
Total                                 128.3   365.2      190.4    303.1         493.5          2730   7670         4090        6410          10500
(%)                                                                                             26      74          39         61             100       123.9
*Include.s $250,000 already spent, out of the proceeds of a $250.000 extension of the initial $750,000 PPF advance.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Section 5
Page 1
Section 5: Outline Terms of Reference for Long-Term Advisers
Description of qualifications and duties for the eleven long-term
advisers financed under the project are outlined below. In addition to
specific qualifications, all the individuals hired for these positions would
have a working knowledge of French (Arabic desirable) and. should be able to
work with high ranking government officials and other expatriates.  Regarding
their duties, all advisers would be assigned the task of training their
Mauritanian counterparts in accordance with the Training Program to be
prepared by the consultants hired with this specific purpose.
1.        Manager of the Control Unit (SONADER)
Qualifications: At least five years experience in a managerial position in a
large public or private agricultural develpment organization, including
responsibility for financial planning and control as welL as internal progress
monitoring and pocedures for follow-up action.
Duties: Reporting to the Director General, the Manager of the Control Unit
would be responsible for supervising: (a) the preparation and execution of
work programs (quantitative definition of tasks) and budgets (sources and
application of funds) for each operational unit; (b) the implementation of
procurement and disbursement procedures; and (c) the relationship between
SONADER and external sources of technical and financial assistance.
2.        Senior Financial Analyst (Co-Director of SONADER's DAF; MDR's
Planning Unit).
Qualifications: University degree (or its equivalent) evidencing knowledge of
modern accounting practices in accordance with generally accepted inter-
national standards. Experience with internal auditing, cost accounting and
budgetary control.
Duties: The co-director of SONADER's DAF would report to the Director General
and would work in coordination with the Head of the Control Unit. With his
Mauritanian counterpart, he would be responsible for: (a) proposing the
financial budgets based on the work programs prepared by DT; (b) maintaining a
cost accounting system that would permit budgeting and monitoring by project
and functional unit; and (c) preparing and keeping the documentation related
to procurement and disbursement procedures.
The financial analyst serving in MDR's Planning Unit would have
similar functions, but adapted to the nature of the Ministry's activities; he
would report to the Chief of the Planning Unit and wouldc be mainly responsible
for the preparation of the budget, monitoring its execulion and establishing
the liaison with the Ministry of Planning and external sources of finance.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Section 5
Page 2
3.        Senior Irrigation Engineer (Co-director of SONADER's DT; MDR's
Planning Unit).
Qualifications: University degree in irrigation engineering; experience in
planning, design and operation of irrigation schemes, preferably small-scale
developments in Sahelian countries.
Duties: The co-director of SONADER's DT would report to the Director
General. With his Mauritanian counterpart, he would be responsible for all
engineering aspects related to SONADER's participation in the preparation,
execution and maintenance of projects, and especially, for coordinating and
supervising the tasks assigned to consultants.
The irrigation engineer serving in the MDR's Planning Unit would
report to the Chief of the Planning Unit (or to the Minister, should he be
appointed Chief of the Unit); he would be responsible for formulating medium-
and long-term policies regarding irrigation development, with particular
attention to the role and participation of Mauritania in the implementation of
the OMVS projects.
4.        Senior Agricultural Engineer (DT's Production and Development
Service)
Qualifications: University degree in agonomy; experience in agricultural and
livestock production in Sahelian countries.
Duties: The co-chief of the Production and Development Service would report
to the Director of DT. With his Mauritanian counterpart, he would be
responsible for all agricultural aspects related to SONADER's participation in
the preparation, execution and operation of projects; in particular, he would
be in charge of organizing and ensuring the carrying out of extension work,
supervising the preparation of credit requirements and evaluating on-going
projects.
5.        Senior Agricultural Economist (MDR's Planning Unit).
Qualifications: University degree in agricultural economics; experience in
planning agricultural development in Sahelian countries.
Duties: He would report to the Chief of the Planning Unit (or to the
Minister, should he be appointed Chief of the Unit); he would be responsible
for formulating medium- and long-term policies regarding credit and price
policies, and production of foodcrops.
6.        Irrigation Engineer (two positions in SONADER's DT:  studies,
works).
Qualifications: Similar to those of the senior irrigation engineer, but
professionals with shorter experience would be acceptable.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Section 5
Page 3
Duties: Both would report to DT's senior engineer. The studies engineer
would collaborate in the preparation of feasibility studies, designs and would
be in charge of maintaining, at working level, the relationship between
SONADER and consultants. The works engineer would be in charge of following
up construction work executed by contractors or carrying out works by force
account.
7.        Agricultural Economist (SONADER's DT).
Qualifications: University degree in agricultural economics. Experience in
project formulation and analysis.
Duties: The agricultural economist would report to the DT's senior engineer;
he would be responsible for the economic aspects of project feasibility
studies, including preparation of farm budget and marketing arrangements.
8.        Credit Specialist (DT's Production and Development Service).
Qualifications: University degree in economics or finance, specialized in
agricultural credit in Sahelian countries.
Duties: The credit specialist would report to the Chief of the Production and
Development Service; he would be responsible for preparing farmer's and
projects' credit requirements, propose terms and conditions of loans in
accordance with general policies, propose operational procedures and monitor
recovery rates.



-38-                                           ANNEX IV
MAURITANIA
RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SONADER Organization Chart
Directorate General   -    -   -  F Advisers
Management
Control Unit
Adrnin. and Finance                                   Technica!
I  De par tme nt                                    Depart mernt
i   Accounting   !C                                       ion
|    Supporting s                                 Agric.
Services    0                                 Development
March 1982
World Bank-24028



IBRD 16405
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                                                                                     MA18
REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
RURAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
P/?OJET DASS/STANCE TECHN/IQUE AUi SECTEUR/
RAURAZ L                                                                        co
EXPERIMENTAL RURAL DEVELOPMENTCENTERI CENTRE EXPERIMENTALDEEDEVELOPPESiENT                                                                                                   28?
-2f  *     WAREHOUSESI MAGASINS
*     SMALL PERIMETERS/ PETITS PERIMETRES                                                                                                    A      L   G       E    R    I   A
O     POULTRY CENTER / CENTRE AVICOLE                                   J                                                                       A     LE                   I
MAIN VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AREAS! PRINCIPALES ZONES DE CULTURES
MARAICHAERESSEZS
-        PAVED ROADS/ ROUTES REVETUES
GRAVEL ROADS/ ROUTES GRAVILLONNEES              (                                                                        J
__TRACKS IPISTES JF,  
RAILWAY/CHEMIN DE FER                            !                                                          -' AiR ReSt!)
299--  ISOHYETS IN mm ISORYETES EN mm                N                                                  _
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL! CAPITALE DE L ETAT       |                                   |                -                                                               'N.
     REGIONAL CAPITALS/CHEF -LIEU DE REGION
REGIONAL BOUNOARIES/ LIMITE DE REGION
REGIONAL NUMBER / NUMERO DE REGION                                            I       I
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES /FRONTIERES R E '
INOICATESTHETERRITORYOF                                                      ,                                                                      I2
THE FORMER SPANISH SAHARA                                                     I        N                                                           , 4
(WESTERN SAHARA)                                                              I                                                             ,
I                            I    H~~~~~~~~~~~~~oudIratt,                                          
(-rtels   I  ')                                                                        ',,'M        A      L      I
-E t   G HA  B iA A                  0M,
_'      '                                                                                                                                         1,
NOUADHIEOULE'k                                                              Osad9p 
\                       /               XATAAR   2C0PNIRSI.
20  -
,fi3T p~~~~~~~~~~T,Chitt
NOUAKCHO1T                                      /                      ,1                       /
,_uti~~~~~~~limz _  
Z.~~~~~~~~~~~0
L EG          ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 5- .-                                                       2C
N.  ----MSoeI                                    ---   -  JE0
! /                                                                                                                                                  300
16O              St. LO R          Nre1  Sd           i                                                                                                    AbdelEbgIr.
/ '~~~~~~~ RUm                                                               6 I    a.6.j   'Oi 
S,oI                       I        IARj'I
600~          -50
DAK        A{                                                     0SrI                                                                o    rB   ORB  lOR   200  2KB
5/                                           ~~~~~~~~KILO-T-R
S E N E G A  L                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ths 'np a-R psapa-d bI' h. W-nEd Ranks -tfl-
S    E  N  E  G   a L   1   9          of     Id- sf tShOIt  an ponh Tes
s                                                                                                     aT/Earns1,2te.^ nny jadgmenan nn Ve1KEn9a srt,m ,f any tc tosI phon / a 6nk endan_-m,",, rs
160                                                                                           --  - k Pancep f-a  h bUndar,-



