DWUMjN-TS      CREDIT NU4MBER 1414 MAD
Project Agreement
(Second Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1414 MAD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated -         w  "(9-  -2.      , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
(hereinafter called SONADER).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand
Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDR  7,400,000), on   the  terms  and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
oaly on condition that SONADER agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SONADER, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to SONADER on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS SONADER, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SONADER shall carry out Parts F, G and H of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SONADER in carrying out
Parts F, G and H of the Project, SONADER shall employ consultants
and specialists, including a management specialist, a financial
analyst, three irrigation engineers, an agricultural engineer, an
agricultural economist and a credit specialist, whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) SONADER shall, at all times during execution of the
Project, take all necessary measures to permit the consultants
and specialists referred to it paragraph (a) of this Section to
carry out their obligations and responsibilities in compliance
with their respective terms of reference.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. (a) SONADER undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SONADER
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) SONADER shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05 (a) SONADER shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, reports and contract documents
for Parts F through H of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) SONADER: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts F through H
of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the *goods and services financed


﻿-3-
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose their use in Parts F through H of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Parts F through H of the
Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from them, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of them.
(c) Upon the award by SONADER of any contract for goods, or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) SONADER shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SONADER and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. SONADER shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SONADER shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SONADER shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts F through H of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) SONADER shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts F through H of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SONADER of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
Section 2.08. By January 1, 1984 or such other date as the
Association may agree, SONADER shall employ at least 8 profes-
sionals  whose   qualification   shall   be  acceptable   to  the


﻿Association, to work as counterparts with the consultants and
specialists specifically referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this
Agreement during the implementation of Parts F through H of the
Project.
Section 2.09. By June 30, 1984 or such other date as the
Association may agree, SONADER shall furnish to the Association a
program acceptable to the Association for the training to be
carried out under Part H of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONADER
Section 3.01. SONADER shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. SONADER shall at all times operate and main-
tain its equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
Section 3.03. SONADER shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. By November 1 of each year while the Project
is being executed, SONADER shall furnish the Association its
budget for the following year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONADER shall maintain accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflec"ing all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are


﻿-5-
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements oi
expenditure.
(b) SONADER shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. SONADER shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SONADER of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For SONADER:
Soci6tg Nationale pour
le Dgveloppement Rural
B.P. 321
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                     Telex:
SONADER                            807 MTN
Nouakchott
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONADER may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General of SONADER shall designate in writing, and SONADER shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By4
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
flI
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


