Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3499-RW 
GRANT NUMBER H3630-RW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 24, 2008 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3499-RW 
GRANT NUMBER H3630-RW 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 24, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
RWANDA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Original Financing Agreement, or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
1.03. 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through its ministry at the time 
responsible for trade in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
Facsimile: 
250-57-75-81 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Kigali, Rwanda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By 
    /s/ 
James 
Musoni 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Victoria 
Kwakwa 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to establish an enabling environment for private 
sector-led economic growth and poverty reduction within the 
Recipient’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Access to Credit and Financial Services
(a) 
Strengthening of management and information systems of selected 
microfinance institutions through provision of accounting and portfolio 
management software and carrying out of training of personnel of said 
institutions
 
in accounting portfolio management and governance. 
(b) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Association of Microfinance 
Institutions in Rwanda. 
(c) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Microfinance Supervision 
Division of National Bank of Rwanda with regard to regulation and 
supervision of microfinance institutions and addressing distressed 
microfinance institutions. 
(d) 
Provision of support to Institute of Bankers with regard to establishment 
of its statutory framework and training curriculum. 
2. 
Accounting and Auditing Standards
(a) 
Review and modification of the applicable legal framework. 
(b) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Rwanda Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants, including with regard to improvement of curricula 
and quality of teaching of accounting and auditing, and to accountants 
with regard to preparation for modification of the applicable legal 
framework. 
Page  7
6
(c) 
Provision of capacity-building support to small and medium enterprises 
with regard to implementation of International Financial Reporting 
Standards, International Standards of Auditing, and simplified reporting 
requirements. 
(d) 
Development and implementation of a framework for monitoring and 
enforcement of accounting and auditing standards. 
3. 
Non-Bank Financial Institutions
(a) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Non-Bank Financial 
Institutions Supervision Department of National Bank of Rwanda 
through, inter alia, the carrying out of training in supervision of pension 
and insurance companies. 
(b) 
Carrying out of full financial audits, and managerial and actuarial audits 
as needed, of seven (7) insurance companies. 
4. 
Social Fund of Rwanda
Provision of capacity-building support to Social Fund of Rwanda with regard to 
refinement and implementation of said
 Fund’s modernization program, including 
development and implementation of new investment strategy. 
5. Payment 
Systems
(a) 
Carrying out of a training program for National Bank of Rwanda staff 
involved in operation and oversight of payments. 
(b) 
Development and implementation of an integrated platform in support of 
automated clearing house and real time gross settlement system, 
particularly review of the applicable legal framework, acquisition of 
required software and core equipment, and continued support until 
systems fully operational. 
(c) 
Provision of capacity-building support to National Bank of Rwanda with 
regard to development of a legal and regulatory framework for mobile 
banking. 
Page  8
7
6. 
Executive Secretariat for Financial Sector Development Plan
(a) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Executive Secretariat for 
Financial Sector Development Plan with regard to implementation of 
said Plan, promotion of the financial sector, and mobilization of 
complementary support from other development partners. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement is incorporated in this 
Agreement, with the following modification in said Schedule, unless the context 
otherwise requires: T
he term “Borrower” shall be read as “Recipient”. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
No. Indicator 
Target 
1. 
Number of National Bank of Rwanda supervisory staff 
able to undertake on- and off-site supervision 
7
2. 
Number of non-bank financial institutions supervised 
annually by National Bank of Rwanda 
10 
3. 
Number of regulated microfinance institutions supervised 
by National Bank of Rwanda, and maintenance of 
reliable related indicators by said Bank 
10 
Page  10
9
4. 
Number of financial institutions having implemented 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
15 
5. 
Implementation of automated clearing house and real 
time gross settlement system 
Operational 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  11
10
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Limited International Bidding 
(b) National Competitive Bidding 
(c) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consult
ants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  12
11
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
(a) each contract for goods or works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 
or more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, Limited 
International Bidding, or National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more procured on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
Quality-Based Selection, Least Cost Selection, or Selection Based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by a firm procured on the basis of Single Source Selection or Selection of 
Individual Consultants; and (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% of 
Eligible Expenditures, consisting of goods; works; non-consultant services; 
consultants’ services, including for audits; Training; and Operating Costs. 
Page  13
12
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
External Auditors
The Recipient shall appoint, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, external 
auditors, with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, for purposes of the carrying out of the audit referred to in 
Section II.B.3 of this Schedule.
 
Page  14
13
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Association of Microfinance Institutions in Rwanda” means the entity, 
established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 53/2001 of 
December 30, 2001, grouping microfinance institutions in the territory of the 
Recipient. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Executive Secretariat” means the Recipient’s entity, established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Ministerial Instruction No. 005/07/10/FSDP of 
September 23, 2007, under the supervisory authority of the Recipient’s Ministry 
of Finance and Economic Planning (as hereinafter defined), and which is charged 
with supervision of implementation of the Financial Sector Development Plan (as 
hereinafter defined). 
5. 
“Financial Sector Development Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, adopted on 
June 27, 2007, aimed at improving access to credit, strengthening supervision of 
banks and non-bank financial institutions, and further developing the Recipient’s 
payment systems. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
7. 
“Institute of Bankers” means the entity to be established under Part 1 (d) of the 
Project pursuant to the Recipient’s laws, and aimed at strengthening capacity and 
promoting professionalism in the Recipient’s banking sector. 
8. 
“International Financial Reporting Standards” means the set of international 
financial reporting standards established by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. 
Page  15
14
9. 
“International Standards of Auditing” means the set of international standards of 
auditing established by the International Federation of Accountants. 
10. 
“Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning” means the Recipient’s ministry at 
the time responsible for finance. 
11. 
“National Bank of Rwanda” (
Banque Nationale du Rwanda
)
means the central 
bank of the Recipient, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law 
No. 55/2007 of July 30, 2007. 
12. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Project 
Coordination Unit on account of Project implementation, management, and 
monitoring and evaluation, including for utilities and supplies, bank charges, 
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, office space 
rental, building and equipment maintenance, public awareness-related media 
expenses, travel and supervision, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, 
but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of members of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
13. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement 
between the Recipient and the Association, dated June 7, 2001, for a 
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement (Credit No. 3499-RW). 
14. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 26, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
17. 
“Rwanda Institute of Certified Public Accountants” means the entity, established 
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Accounting Law of 
December 20, 2007, charged with the establishment of national accounting and 
auditing standards and acting as a self-regulatory body for the profession in the 
territory of the Recipient. 
Page  16
15
18. 
“Social Fund of Rwanda” (
Caisse Social du Rwanda
)
means the Recipient’s 
entity, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 06/2003 of 
March 22, 2003, charged with management of the Recipient’s social security 
program. 
 
19. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated 
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly 
related to course preparation and implementation. 
 
Section II.   
Amendment to Original Financing Agreement
 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set forth below. 
 
1. 
Section 1.02 (n) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(n) 
“PCU” means the project coordination unit established on 
December 4, 2000, within the ministry of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for trade, responsible for facilitating, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on 
Project activities, and charged with financial management under the Project and 
coordination of Project implementation;” 
2. 
Section 2.04 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 2.04.  The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2011, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.” 
 
__________
 
