                                              Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 43020     - RW




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                   ONA

                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGGRANT

                             INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR3.8 MILLION
                                (US$6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                                FOR THE

         COMPETITIVENESS AND ENTERPRISEDEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                              April 1,2008




Financeand Private Sector Development
Easternand SouthernAfrica
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective February 29,2008)
                    Currency Unit = RwandanFrancs (RWF)
                              u s $ 1 = RWF544.1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1      - June30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A C H      Automatic Clearing House
AMIR       Association o fMicrofinance Institutions inRwanda
BCR        Commercial Bank of Rwanda (Banque Commerciale du Rwanda)
BNR        Central Bank o f Rwanda (Banque Nationale du Rwanda)
CAPMER     Small and MediumEnterprise Support Center
CEDP       Competitiveness & Enterprise Development Project
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CSR        Social FundofRwanda (Caisse Sociale duRwanda)
CGAP       Consultative Group to Assist the Poor
EDPRS      Econonomic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
FIRST      Financial Sector Reformand Strengthening Initiative
FSAP       Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSDP       Financial Sector Development Plan
FM         FinancialManagement
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOR        Government o f Rwanda
GPN        General Procurement Notice
IBRD       InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IFRS       InternationalFinancial Reporting Standards
IMF        InternationalMonetary Fund
MFI        Microfinance Institution
NBFI       NonBank Financial Institution
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NPL        NonPerforming Loan
NTB        National Tender Board
PDO        Project Development Objective
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PSD        Private Sector Development
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
RICA       Rwanda Institute o f Certified Public Accountants
RIEPA      RwandaInvestment& Export Promotion Agency
RTGS       RealTime Gross Settlement System
RWANDATEL  Rwanda Telephone Company
RWF        RwandanFrancs
SME        Small and MediumEnterprise
SOE        Statement o f Expenditures
UBPR       Uniono fPopular Banks inRwanda (Union des Banques Populaires duRwanda)

                    Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 CountryDirector:           Colin Bruce
                   Sector Manager:          Gerard0 M.Corrochano
               Task Team Leader:            Amadou Dem


                                        2

                                                                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                        REPUBLICOFRWANDA

               COMPETITIVENESSAND ENTERPRISEDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                      ADDITIONAL FINANCING



                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS



         IINTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................
          .                                                                                                                        5
           .
         AMOUNT OF US$6 MILLION.........................................................................................
         I1 BACKGROUND AND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCINGINTHE
                                                                                                                                   5
         I11. PROPOSEDCHANGES.............................................................................................         9
         IV. CONSISTENCY WITHCASAND PRSP................................................................                          12
         V APPRAISAL OFPROJECTACTIVITIES................................................................
           .                                                                                                                      13
         VI. EXPECTED OUTCOMES........................................................................................            15
         VI1 BENEFITS AND RISKS .........................................................................................
             .                                                                                                                    15
         VI11. FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONS..........................................................                            15



         Annexes

         Annex 1: ProposedActivities underthe Additional Financing and cost                             ......................... 16
         Annex 2: ResultFramework2001-2008          ..........................................................................    17
         Annex 3: KeyPerformanceIndicators.............................................................................           24
         Annex 4: Withdrawal ofthe Proceeds ofthe Grant.........................................................                  25
         Annex 5: Procurementarrangements...............................................................................          26
         Annex 6: Project PreparationTeam.................................................................................        34
         Annex 7: Republic o fRwandaat aGlance......................................................................              35
         Annex 8: Map ofthe Republic ofRwanda......................................................................               36




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                          3


                             PROJECTPAPERDATA        SHEET



ProjectName: Competitiveness &                 Gerard0 M.Corrochano
                                               CountryDirector:ColinBruce
                                               EnvironmentalCategory:C




BankDolicies?


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes: PDO has not been revised
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
                               For AdditionalFinancing
[ ] Loan  [ ] Credit   [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
Total Bank financing (uS$m.): 6.0
Proposed terms: Standards IDA Grant terms


 I.INTRODUCTION


 1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
 Additional Financing Grant inan amount o f SDR 3.8 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
 to the Republic o f Rwanda for the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
 (CEDP), P057295; Credit 34990 RW.

 2.      The proposed Additional Financing would help finance scaled-up activities to
 enhance the impact of the successful financial reform program started under the project.
 The new activities to be supported were selected from a recently completed Financial
 Sector Development Plan (FSDP), which was developed with broad participation by all
 stakeholders. The FSDP has been approved by the Government o f Rwanda's (GOR)
 Cabinet, and there i s strong ownership and commitment to the program. The activities to
 be supported are mainly aimed at improving access to credit, strengthening supervision o f
 banks and non bank financial institutions (NBFIs), and developing the payment system.
 This is ultimately expected to leadto a sounder andmore stable financial system.


 11. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCINGIN
 THE AMOUNT OFUS$6.0 MILLION

 Country context

3.       Rwanda underwent a thorough review o f its financial sector as part o f the
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) in 2005. The FSAP noted that Rwanda's
financial sector remained shallow and underdeveloped. The indicator o f financial
deepness, M2/GDP1, was just 20 percent in 2006, well below the sub-Saharan average o f
42 percent. Recommendations of the FSAP included enhancing the Central Bank o f
Rwanda's (BNR) autonomy and supervisory powers, upgrading accounting, auditing,
credit information andpayment systems, strengthening the legal and regulatory framework
for the non-bank financial sector, developing more active money and foreign exchange
markets, andreforming the legal framework for business.

4.       The Government o f Rwanda concurred with the findings o f the FSAP, and in
2006 requested the World Bank's assistance inimplementingthe FSAPrecommendations.
The World Bank was unable to offer a comprehensive financial sector project as initially
requested due to International Development Association (IDA) constraints, but worked
with the authorities to obtain a modest level of financing from the Financial Sector
Reform and Strengthening Initiative (FIRST) Initiative, a multi-donor trust fund.

5.       Under the FIRST trust fund, a team o f specialized consultants worked with a
steering committee of stakeholders to develop a detailed Financial Sector Development
Plan (FSDP). The FSDP was completed in May 2007 and was endorsed by the


  M2/GDP is the ratio ofmoney andquasi money to gross domestic product. Source: WorldBank, 2007

Government and other stakeholders in November 2007. It i s a critical component o f the
Government's current Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS)
which covers the period 2008-2012.


Project Background

6.       The CEDP Project's overall objective i s to establish an enabling environment for
growth and development of the private sector that would help reduce poverty in Rwanda.
The project is designed to promote a competitive climate by: (i)                     streamliningthe business
environment; (ii)reducing costs and increasing the efficiency o f telecommunications,
water and electric utilities, andthe tea industry; and (iii)              improving access to financial and
support services to local entrepreneurs. The project's objective, design and scope remain
unchanged.

7.       The original credit, inthe amount o f SDR31.8 million (US$40.8 equivalent) was
approved on April 19, 2001. The credit became effective on December 7, 2001. The
original project's closing date was July 31, 2007, but IDA approved in March 2007 a
Government's request for a budget reallocation and extension o f the closing date by one
year to July 31, 2008. The disbursement rate at the time o f the request was 74 percent.
This extension was hence justified by the need for additional time to launch or complete
several activities deemed important for the project to reach its development objectives.


Project Performance

 8.      Implementation progress and development objective ratings for the project have
 been consistently satisfactory since the credit became effective. IDA has now disbursed
 about US$40 million equivalent, amounting to 90 percent o f the credit amount2. The
 implementation arrangements with one Project Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for
 the procurement and financial management functions, and several implementingbodies
 focusing on technical implementation, have contributed to the satisfactory performance.
 The ongoing project is in fwll compliance with legal covenants. Action plans to continue
 improving procurement and financial management have been prepared. Implementation
 o f these action plans i s satisfactory. Some o f the significant project achievements are
 presented below. A more detailed result table is presented inAnnex 2.

9.       Business environment.A total o f 14 business laws are being improved and will
have an impact on five doing business (DB) indicators (starting a business, getting credit,
protecting investors, enforcing contract, hiring and firing). Commercial chambers in
Ruhengeri, Butare, and Kigali have been operational since 2006. An arbitration center is
also in the process o f becoming operational. The capacity o f these recently established
institutions has been strengthened with equipment and training provided to judges and


 2Due to the dollar depreciation against the SDR the project has gained about $7.0 million. Total credit proceeds are
  about US$48 million instead of $40.8million.




                                                          6

arbitrators. The capacity o f the Rwanda Investment and Export Promotion Agency
(RIEPA) has been strengthened and RIEPA is now playing a greater role in trade and
investment promotion; this has contributed to increasing the share o f private investment to
GDP from 6 to 8 percent between 2001 and 2006. With all these measures aimed at
facilitating business creation and operations, Rwanda was ranked as one o f the top
reformers in the 2007 Doing Business report. The ranking i s expected to improve again
after the revision o f the commercial laws is completed. Inaddition, on skills development,
CEDP provided support to firm level capacity-building through the Private Sector
Federation and CAPMER (Centre d'Appui aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises), the
Small and Medium Enterprises support center. CAPMER, has so far provided support to
60 SMEs in various areas including: preparation o f feasibility studies and business plans,
assistance in accessing financing and technology, training inmarketing and management,
and information and training to improve enterprises' access to markets. The number o f
permanent jobs inthe SMEs supported under the project doubled between 2004 and 2007.

10.       Privatization of infrastructure services. The project has assisted the
Government in implementing its privatization program.                          The Water and Electricity
Company, Electrogaz3, was placed under a five-year management contract in 2003 to
restructure the company prior to partial or full privatization. The Government terminated
the contract in2005 as it determined that the private operator did not fulfill its contractual
commitments. Electrogaz has embarked on critical reforms to improve its performance
andhas made some progress instrengthening its finances. The project also supported the
2005 privatization o f the then national telecommunications company, RwandaTel, which
was sold for US$15 million. This has led to increased competition in the sector and
greater access to the internet. InJuly 2007, the Government, following negotiations with
the investor, bought the company back due to non-compliance with contractual obligations
on the part o f the investor. RwandaTel was once again put up for sale - and, sold - in
October 2007 for US$lOO million. Lastly, the capacity o f the privatization secretariat and
the multisectoral regulatory unit has been strengthened. This has considerably improved
the country's ability to effectively implement a privatization program.

11.       Privatization in the tea sector. The project also provided technical assistance for
privatization in the tea sector. Out o f nine factories, two were identified (Mulindi and
Pfunda) as pilot sales at the beginning o f the privatization program. The Pfunda tea factory
and estate inGisenyi were privatized inNovember 2004. The Government decided not to
sell Mulindi after receiving very low bids for the company. In November 2005, the
Government decided to postpone the privatization o f the remaining tea factories and
rehabilitate them first before privatization in order to obtain higher prices. The
privatization program in the tea sector is expected to be completed with government
resources by 2010 inline with the new tea sector development strategy.

12.       Financial sector. The Union des Banques Populaires du Rwanda (Union o f
Popular Banks o f Rwanda, UBPR), which represents a significant portion o f banking


  Etablissement Public deProduction, de Transport,et deDistributiond'EIectricit6, d'Eau, et de Gaz(Public
   Establishmentfor Production, Transport, andElectricity, Water, andGas Distribution)




                                                         7

sector assets and the most important institution providing microfinance, was recapitalized
in2003. The project providedUS$5 million for the recapitalization needed following the
severe disruption to its activities occasioned by the civil war o f 1994 and its aftermath.
The recapitalization and restructuring o f the UBPR has been a success.           It is now
profitable, and, with some 500,000 members and assets o f approximately US$80 million,
it is the largest financial institution in Rwanda in terms o f market penetration, and the
third largest in terms o f assets. The UBPR has recently been converted to a commercial
bank with a strategic partner, Rabobank. Two majority government-ownedbanks, Banque
Commerciale du Rwanda (Commercial Bank o f Rwanda) and Banque Continentale
Africaine au Rwanda (African Continental Bank in Rwanda, now FINA Bank), were
successfully privatized under the project in 2005 through their sale to strategic foreign
investors, improving the soundness and competitiveness o f the Rwandanbankingsector.

13.      The performance o f the three financial institutions has noticeably improved. In
2002, the combined losses o f FINA Bank and Banque Commerciale du Rwanda (BCR)
amounted to US$21 million. In 2006, the two institutions became profitable with a
combined profit (before tax) estimated at US$7.5 million. From 2002 to 2006, total loans
o f the two banks increased by 95 percent (as compared to 16 percent for other financial
institutions inthe country). Duringthe same period, total assets increased by 138 percent
(as compared to 19 percent for other financial institutions in the country). BCR
performance i s partly explained by the fact that it was restructured during the two years
preceding privatization during which period it was not making new loans and its balance
sheet was considerably scaled down. The growth following privatization was mostly to
regain lost ground. For UBPR, profit (before tax) was US$1 million and US$1.3 million
in 2002 and 2006 respectively. Loans and assets grew by 600 percent and 330 percent
between 2002 and 2006, respectively. UBPR completed its transformation into a
commercial bank in early 2008 andwas able to attract a foreign strategic partner who will
provide both capital and technical assistance. It will continue to provide services to its
small clients.


Rationalefor Additional Financing

14.      The Additional Financingwas requested by the GORYin a letter dated September
20, 2007, to scale-up the successful financial sector reform program supported under the
first component o f the ongoing project. Considerable information has become available
following the preparation o f the FSAP and the subsequent FSDP which was not available
at the time o f preparation o f the ongoing project, and the GOR and IDA are now well
equipped to advance the country's financial sector development. The FSDP forms an
integral and important part o f the Government's new Economic Development and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (EDPRS), and will be implemented incoordination with other donors.
The Additional Financing is an appropriate tool: the grant funds will finance additional
activities which are related to those in the original project and which will increase the
project's impact and development effectiveness.      All the activities are in line with the
original development objectives and project activities under the financial sector or
business environment components. The Additional Financing i s considered more



                                             8

appropriate than a new project, given the relatively small amount o f the financing and the
limited number o f new activities. The proposed Additional Financing i s part o f IDA'S
FY08 lendingprogram for Rwanda.


 111. PROPOSEDCHANGES


  15.    The project's development objective, design and scope remain substantially
 unchanged (see par. 36).       The project already included a financial services sub-
 component with a cost o f US$6.89 million, which has been fully disbursed. The
 implementation arrangements remain unchanged. The existing Project Coordination Unit
 will continue to work closely with the FSDP steering committee and the newly
 established Executive Secretariat o fthe FSDPwithin the Ministryo fFinance.

  16.    The Additional Financing represents about 15 percent o f the original project
 financing. The implementation o f the new activities i s expected to be completed inthree
 years. For this reason, the project closing date would be revised from July 31, 2008 to
 July 31, 2011 to allow sufficient time to implement, monitor and evaluate the
 performance o f the new activities.

 17.     The Additional Financingwill support Rwanda's FSDP infive highpriority areas:
 (i)improving accessto credit and financial services; (ii)improving accounting and
 auditing standards; (iii) enhancing NBFI regulation and supervision; (iv) strengthening
 the national pension fund, Caisse Sociale du Rwanda (CSR); and (v) modernizing
 payments systems. Within these areas, the project will focus more specifically on the
 following:

 18.     Access to Credit and Financial Services.          As a group, the 70 licensed
 microfinance institutions (MFIs excluding UBPR) supervised by BNR play an important
 role in increasing access to credit and account for 56 percent o f the financial system
 branch locations and serve 30 percent o f all depositors and 18 percent o f borrowers (84
 and 51 percent respectively when UBPR is included). Overall, the performance o f the
 MFIs needs to be improved with greater oversight o f the industry by BNR. Non
 performing loans (NPLs) are estimated at 13 percent (excluding UBPR). It i s probable
 that this percentage i s understated as accounting is often weak and external supervision
 only recently started. A few MFIs were recently closed following supervision by the
 Central Bank. It will take some time before enforcement o f regulatory requirements
 reaches a desirable level and before the MFI industry i s adequately strengthened. The
 FSDP includes a number o f actions to strengthen the industry including adopting a new
 microfinance policy, creating a strong microfinance association, and strengthening MFI
 supervision.

 19.     The additional financing will support the MFI strengthening program in three
 areas. It will provide support to strengthen and build capacity in the microfinance sub-
 sector industrythrough strengthening o f the management and information system (MIS),
 by providing accounting and portfolio management software to selected MFIs, and


                                             9

fundingtraining for MFIpersonnel inaccounting portfolio management, and governance.
The MIS funds will be available on a cost-share basis with the selected MFIs. The
strengthening o f M I S will first require an MIS analysis o f the selected MFIs to determine
the most suitable system and then the installation o f the MIS. The most cost-effective
strategy to install the M I S inthe selected MFIs and the cost-sharing arrangement will be
defined after the MIS analyses are completed. It will also provide institution-building
support to the nascent professional association, the Association o f Microfinance
Institutions in Rwanda (AMIR). Finally, technical assistance will be provided to the
central bank's MFI Supervision Division to enable it to better regulate and supervise
microfinance institutions and to deal with a number o f distressed MFIs. Other
development partners are also providing support or planning to provide support to
strengthen the microfinance industry (the United Nations Capital Development Fund,
FOREDEM). This support will complement the activities financed under the Additional
Financing.

20.     The Additional Financing will also provide limited support to the Institute o f
Bankers which i s in the process o f being officially created. The Institute i s currently
hiring staff, It is being driven by the Bankers Association in collaboration with the
School o f Finance and Banking which has been supported by the ongoing project. The
Institute i s aimed at strengthening the weak capacity inthe banking sector and promoting
professionalism. The Additional Financing will provide technical assistance to develop
the institute's statutory documents and a training curriculum. The operational cost o f the
Institutewill be financed bymembers.

21.     Accounting and Auditing Standards. Strengthening Rwanda's accounting and
auditing i s a critical element inRwanda's FSDP as this provides a foundation for lending
by Banks, allows the development o f a capital market, and facilitates the supervision and
regulation o f the insurance industry. At present, much o f the accounting i s based on an
old system which differs from widely accepted international accounting and auditing
standards in a number o f ways. Inrecognition o f this, a law to regulate the accounting
profession was passed by Parliament in December 2007 and will be adopted soon. The
law also creates an accountant professional association, the Rwanda Institute o f Certified
Public Accountants (RICA) with the responsibility for establishing national accounting
and auditing standards, and act as a self-regulatory body for the profession.

22.     The World Bank has started a Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes
(ROSC) in Accounting and Auditing. The Additional Financing will provide support
based on the conclusions and recommendations o f the ROSC. The project will provide
support in the following areas: (i) and modifications to the legal framework, (ii)
                                      review
capacity building for the newly established professional association (RICA), probably
through a twinning arrangement with a reputable professional accountancy body, (iii)
guidance on implementing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and
International Standards o f Auditing (ISA)      and simplified reporting requirements for
SMEs, (iv) design and implementation o f an arrangement to monitor and enforce
accounting and auditing standards, and (v) improving the curricula and quality o f
teaching o f accounting and auditing, and will help practicing accountants prepare for the



                                              10

pending changes. The accounting and auditing work will be coordinated closely with
related ongoing Bank work on Public FinancialManagement inRwanda.

23.      NBFISupervision and Regulation. BNRhas recently been given responsibility
to supervise all NBFIs which, at present, consist o f an insurance industry that has been
largelyunregulated and Caisse Sociale du Rwanda (CSR), the large government pension
program4, which has, until now, been essentially self-supervised and self-regulated. The
Central Bank does not currently have the requisite expertise in these areas, and must
develop its professional capacity in order to fulfill its new mandate. The International
Monetary Fund(IMF) has agreed to provide assistance to BNR's newly established NBFI
supervision department in the form o f a resident advisor for two years. The CEDP will
complement this support by providing funding for capacity building within the
department, notably for training relating to both insurance andpension companies. It will
also provide funding to partially finance full financial audits o f the seven established
insurance companies and, where justified, managerial and actuarial audits. The insurance
companies will be requested to contribute to the financing o f their audits. The results o f
these audits will provideBNRwith a baseline analysis o fthe insurance industry.

24.      Strengthening Social Fund of Rwanda (Caisse Sociale du Rwanda, CSR). CSR
i s the largest financial institution in Rwanda, plays an important function in providing a
social safety net for a large number o f Rwandans, and i s by far the largest source o f
investible long term funds in the country with a projected US$250 million to be
mobilized over the next five years. In addition to the important social protection role of
CSR, it plays a potentially critical role in financial sector development, mobilizing long
term savings and serving as a source o f demand for the nascent capital market. While no
dependable actuarial study has been completed5, CSR does not appear to have adequate
reserves to cover its longer term financial obligations. A rough design for a
comprehensive modernization program has been recently prepared, but needs support to
refine it, establish priorities within the program, and implement it. The CEDP will
provide an advisor to the CEO o f the CSR for one year to assist in refining and
implementingthe modernizationprogram, including developing andimplementinga new
investment strategy.

25.      Modernizing the Payment System. The inefficiency and lack o f soundness of the
payment system in Rwanda contributes to hightransaction costs for businesses, and acts
as an obstacle to broadening and deepening financial intermediation. To address this
deficiency, a National Payment Council (NPC) i s being established to ensure widespread
stakeholder participation in developing and implementing a formal national payments
strategy. FIRST Initiative i s providing parallel financing to assist the NPC in preparing
the strategy and business case for an Automatic Transfer System, with the dual
functionality o f an Automated Clearing House (ACH) for deferred net settlement and a
Real Time Gross Settlements (RTGS) system. The Government has indicated that an
RTGS system is needed in order to meet the country's obligations related to financial


4 The FSDP calls for the creation of privatepensionplanswhich would also be subject to BNRregulationand supervision.
5 CSRhas agreed recentlyto conductafull actuarial and financialaudit




                                                              11

sector transaction servicing, national tax and trade transaction processing, and
harmonizationwith the East Africa Community's payment initiative.

26.     The Additional Financing will assist in implementing the early stages o f the
payment strategy. Based on existing diagnostic work, activities are likely to include: (i)
carrying out o f a training program for BNR staff involved in operating and oversight o f
payments; and (ii)   development and implementation o f an integrated platform to support
both an A C H and an RTGS. This latter activity will mainly consist inreviewing the legal
framework for A C H and RTGS; designing the appropriate technical specifications for the
integrated system; acquiring the software and core equipment required; and supporting
the implementationuntilthe system becomes filly operational6.

27.     The Bank also intends to work with CGAP (Consultative Group to Assist the
Poor), the Government, and private sector stakeholders on a pilot project for mobile
banking. This pilot will consist of using mobile phone technology to develop retail
payments, including expanding access to financial services for low income and other
unbanked people. The Additional Financing will support the preparation o f the legal and
regulatory framework required for the private sector and the Government to develop
mobile bankinginRwanda.

28.     Support to the Executive Secretariat of the FSDP. In addition to the five
components described above, the Additional Financing will support the Executive
Secretariat o f the FSDP which has been recently established within the Ministry o f
Finance to supervise the overall implementation o f the plan. The Additional Financing
will provide resources to strengthen the capacity o fthis Secretariat to enable it to play its
role, promote the financial sector, and mobilize complementary support from other
development partners. The support will mainly consist intechnical assistance for capacity
building, training and seminars on relevant financial sector issues and progress in
implementing the FSDP.



IV. CONSISTENCYWITH CAS AND PRSP

29.     The CEDP Project was part o fthe 2002-2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which was extended by an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) ending in 2008. The new
activities are selected from the Government's FSDP which i s an important component of
the Growth pillar o f the recently-completed Economic Development and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (EDPRS).




 Software and hardware maintenance i s estimatedto cost US$150,000 per year.



                                                 12

V. APPRAISALOF PROJECTACTIVITIES

30.     The EDPRS stresses that for "Rwanda to achieve accelerated economic growth
driven by a highlevel o f investment, it i s essential that the country's financial markets are
widened and deepened". The financial system should play a greater role in mobilizing
saving and financing investments. The activities to be supported under the Additional
Financing were discussed and selected with the Government. They are considered to be
the most important at this stage o f financial sector development.

31.     The investment in the strengthening o f the capacity o f the BNR to supervise
NBFIs and MFIs, as well as the improvement in accounting and auditing standards i s
expected to bring greater stability and limit systemic risks. Support to the Institute o f
Bankers, AMIR, and RICA i s also widely strongly recognized as an important way to
empower their members and strengthen their advocacy role.

32.     The overall coordination o f the implementation o f the FSDPby a single and fully
dedicated government body, the Executive Secretariat o f the FSDP within the Ministry o f
Finance, i s seen as a good approach to ensure that the government strategic orientations
are systematically implemented and monitored. The Executive Secretariat has no
supervisory or regulatory power but, will work closely with other beneficiaries including
BNR, banks, NBFIs and MFIs to facilitate implementation o f selected activities. It will
also liaise with the Institute o f Bankers, AMIR, and RICA to ensure that their concerns
are addressed by the Government. The Secretariat will also ensure that all new
government initiatives and new support from other development partners fall squarely
within the program. Strengthening the capacity o f the newly-established Executive
Secretariat o f the FSDP i s hence fundamental to launch the implementation o fFSDP.

33.     Resources required to implement all the activities o f the FSDP have been
estimated at approximately US$15 million. The US$6.0 million Additional Financing
will cover activities that the Government considers the most urgent, and that can be
implementedduringthe time available under the extended CEDP. Other elements o f the
FSDP will be supported by the budget and by resources the Government i s expected to
mobilize from FIRST and other donors (notably the African Development Bank, Dutch
cooperation, and DFID). The Executive Secretariat o f the FSDP will play a key role in
promoting the development o f the sector andmobilizing resources required to implement
the activities o fthe plan.

34.     Financial     Management,       disbursement      & procurement        arrangements.

Financial Management Arrangement. The audit report o f December 31, 2006 outlined
internal control and accounting system weaknesses o f the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). By end 2007, the project had already put in place measures to implement the
recommendations o f the auditor and address the issues discussed during the financial
management supervision o f December 2007. A recent review o f the action planrevealed
the PCU management's commitment to put inplace a satisfactory financial management
system. The financial management arrangements will aim to facilitate disbursements and



                                              13

to ensure effective use o f the additional financing. The financial management team o f the
PCU includes experienced and qualified staff who will be responsible for (i)     approving
payments to contracted service providers, suppliers o f equipment, and implementing
agents; and (ii)  submitting IFR and audited financial statements to IDA. Appropriate
audit arrangements will be made for the Additional Financing.

Disbursement arrangement. Since the existing implementation arrangements will be
maintained, the disbursementand funds flow arrangements will be the same as under the
existing project. However a new designated account denominated in U S Dollars will be
opened in the Central Bank o f Rwanda to finance eligible expenditures and hold
authorized amounts as agreed with IDA. The account will be segregated such that only
the proceeds o f the loan will be deposited into the account. The Designated Account will
be managed by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), The Designated Account will be
audited annually as part o fthe overall project external audit arrangements.

Upon grant effectiveness, an initial advance up to a ceiling amount o f $600, 000 (this
amount represents approximately four months o f eligible project expenditures) will be
deposited into the Designated Account. The Reimbursement method will be used to
disburse grant proceeds to the Designated Account upon submission o f a signed
application for withdrawal together with Statement o f Expenditures (SOE). The option to
disburse using the Direct Payment method will also be available. Supporting
documentation will be provided with each application for withdrawal for amounts above
Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) thresholds, and reporting on the use o f grant proceeds
will be done on a monthlybasis.

Procurement arrangement. The new procurement guidelines (2004 guidelines with
corrigenda October 2006), will apply to all new procurement contracts, including those
associated with activities funded under the original project. For contracts included inthe
original project's Bank approved procurement plans, for which invitations to bid were
issued under old procurement rules prior to approval o f the Additional Financing, the
original guidelines may apply. Exceptions should be cleared by the Regional
Procurement Manager (RPM) or hisher delegated Hub CoordinatorProcurement
Specialist inaccordance with Africa RegionalProcurement procedures.

35.     Environmental and Social Aspects

Most o f the activities to be financed under the additional grant funds will be focused on
technical assistance to strengthen the capacity o f the Central Bank, the NBFIs and MFIs
to operate more efficiently and effectively. This i s ultimately aimed at strengthening the
financial sector. As such, there are no environmental impacts or safeguards that would be
triggered by these actions. The initial "B" categorization o f the original project was
justified by the privatization program supported by the project in the infrastructure and
tea sectors. The Additional Financingwill not support the privatization program.




                                              14

VI. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

36.    The project overall objective remains unchanged but a new outcome, "Improving
enabling environment for financial sector development", related to financial sector
development and consistent with the activities supported so far will be added. In sum,
NBFIs and MFIs will bebetter supervised; the capacity o f the microfinance sector will be
strengthened; international accounting and auditing standards will be adopted and
implemented by all financial institutions; and the country payment system will be
modernized with the implementation o f an A C H and an RTGS. The new indicators to be
monitored are presented inthe result framework inAnnex 3.



VII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

37.    Overall, the Rwandese financial sector will benefit    slam the ac Mona1 financing
with the strengthening of BNR, the NBFIs and the MFIs. The banks, pension and
insurance account holders will also benefit as the result o f better supervised and sounder
financial system. The operators and users o f the payment system will also gain from the
Additional Financing which will contribute to accelerating electronic transfer o f value,
increasingcertainty o fpayment settlement, and reducinguse o f cash.

38.    Two potential risks as well as the mitigation measures have beenidentified. First,
the implementation o f the new accounting law and standards may be delayed by
opposition or disagreement within the profession. This risk i s expected to be reduced
when RICA becomes fully operational in the early stage o f project implementation.
Second, due to lack o f capacity or investment, banks and/or BNR may be unable to
implement payments system within the timeframe. A National Payment Council i s being
set up with FIRST initiative support to tackle potential bottlenecks and ensure timely
implementationby all relevant financial institutions.



VIII. FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONS

39.    The Additional Financing o f US$6.0 million equivalent will be provided as a
grant with 100percent IDA financing, according to the category allocations presented in
Annex 4.

40.    The condition for disbursement is the opening o f a new designated account.




                                           15

         Annex 1: ProposedActivities7underthe AdditionalFinancingandcost



                                                                                                     Additional
                                              ProposedActivities                                     Financing
                                                                                                     cus%ooo~
       I Improvingaccesstocreditandfinancialservices.
         - ----- Accountingandportfolio                                                                 950
                 Technicalassistanceto microfinancesupervision departmentat BNR                         100
                 Institutionbuilding support to AMIR (Secretary general, equipment, software, etc)      200
                 Trainingto MFIsinbestpractices(management, accounting,governance,etc).                 300
                                          management Softwarefor selectedMFIs                           200
                 Supportto the Institute ofbankers                                                      150

       I1 ImprovingAccounting and Auditing Standards.
          --- Capacitybuilding                                                                          600
                                   for FUCA                                                             250
                 Support issuance of accountingandauditingstandards, developtrainingprogram             350

       I11 Contractual savings and non bank financialinstitutions
            -
           -- Full financial                                                                            900
                 Strengtheningthe capacity ofNBFIsupervision dept. at BNR                               200
                              and organizationalaudits of selected insurancecompanies                   400
           -Technicalassistancefor reorganizationandstrengtheningof CSR                                 300

       I V Paymentsystems (ACH and RTGS)
           -
           -- Training for BNR                                                                          2,950
                                   staff                                                                100
                 Legalframeworkfor ACH andRTGS system                                                   100
           -- Pilot mobilebanking(legalandregulatoryframework)
                 Technicaldesign, equipment, softwareandInstallationof ACH andRTGS system               2,600
                                                                                                        150

       V Support to FSDPsecretariat
         --- Technicalassistancefor                                                                     350
                                         capacitybuilding                                               200
             Training and seminars                                                                      150

       VI-Unallocated                                                                                   250
       TOTAL                                                                                            6,000




 For the fmancial sector, the ongoing credit provided: (i)           US$Smillion for the recapitalization o f the main
microfinance institutions (Union des Banques Populaires duRwanda, UBPR) and (ii)                  about US$1.9 million
for Technical Assistance to the Central bank (mainly for privatization o f banks, training and banking
supervision capacity for the central bank, and a small portion for payment system). UBPR i s now
performing well and will not be supported by the additional financing. The privatization program in the
banking sector i s now almost completed. The additional financing will therefore not be used for
privatization o f banks. I t will support training and supervision in new areas (insurance, pensions, and
microfinance), as well as the payment system.



                                                             16

c1
m

0  0 .

a   0   0  0  a    a    0    0

.    e   e  e ..



                   h

      5
      B




I.      . .

9:
3
3
N
s
&
3
3
N


4b




    P
    2



   z
    3
    3
     o\



     r4 m    b m w
    0 0 0 0 0
    0 0 0 0 0
      r 4h l m r 4 r 4

                 r
                 C
                 Fa
                 J
                 iE
                 W:
                  c
                 ct


                 f
                  0


                 7
                 5eF

                  c
                  0
                 C
                 \c
                 C
                 r
                 c"
                 .r
                  E
                 JE
                  E




4
F    0  0   0




Y

                                  Annex 3: Key Performance Indicators


                             Additional Financing Project Year: 2008-2010
                                                        -

     Outcome            Activities           Performance         Baseline Endof Project Responsibility for
                                               indicators                    target      data collection

                   Strengthen           - Supervisory staff able    0          7
                   supervisory capacity to undertake on-site and
                   at BNR for NBFIs     off-site supervision;
                                                                                             BNR
                                         -NBFIsare supervised      0           10
                                        once a year


                                        Regulated MFIs are
                   Strengthen           supervised regularlyby
Improve enabling   supervisory capacity BNR(once a year for         0          10            BNR
environment for    at BNR for           large MFIs) and BNR i s
sound financial    microfinance         able to maintain
sector development                      reliable indicators


                   Assist RICA in       International Financial     0          15
                   implementing new     and Reporting
                   accounting law and   Standards (IFRS)                                    RICA
                   standards            implemented by all
                                        financial institutions

                   Modernized           Automated clearing          0     ACH andRTGS
                   payment system       house (ACH) and Real               operational
                                        Time Gross Settlement                                BNR
                                        (RTGS) implemented




                                                         24

                    Annex 4: Withdrawalofthe Proceeds of the Grant



      Category                 Amount o f the Grant Allocated          % o f Expenditures to be
                            (Expressed inU S Dollar Equivalent)               Financed

(1) Civil works                              0                                    100

(1) Goods                                 500,0008                                100

(2) Consultants'                         5,250,000                                100
    Services

(3) Operating Costs                          0'                                   100

(4) Unallocated                           250,000                                 100

      TOTAL                              6,000,000                                100




* The amount can be break down as follows: US$400,000 for hardware and other equipment required for
the ACH and RTGS; and US$lOO,OOO for basis equipment for AMIR, the Institute o f Bankers, RICA and
BNR.

 Resources will be reallocated from the ongoing project.



                                                  25

                         Annex 5: Procurementarrangements

A - General
A Country Procurement Issues Paper (CPIP) was completed in June 2004; the main
recommendations were incorporatedin an action plan for procurement reform, discussed
with and adopted by the Government. Despite the fact that Rwanda has followed
pragmatic procurement practices under the National Tender Board (NTB, created in
1997), the legal, regulatory and institutional framework need to be modernized to bring
its procurement system to international standards as developed by OECD-DAC with the
participation and agreement of the Government o f Rwanda. Some actions have been
undertaken to this end. For example, a new procurement code was adopted in 2007.
However implementationo f the procurement code is not yet complete.

 B - Guidelines

Procurement arrangement. The new procurement guidelines (2004 guidelines with
corrigenda October 2006), will apply to all new procurement contracts, including those
associated with activities funded under the original project. For contracts included in the
original project's Bank approved procurement plans, for which invitations to bid were
issued under old procurement rules prior to approval o f the additional financing, the
original guidelines may apply. Exceptions should be cleared by the Regional
Procurement Manager (RPM) or hisher delegated Hub CoordinatorProcurement
Specialist inaccordance with Africa RegionalProcurement Procedures.

The various items under different expenditure categories are described in general below.
For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the needfor pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include: basic
equipment for the Association o f Microfinance Institutions in Rwanda (AMIR), the
Institute o f Bankers; and equipment required for the Automated Clearing House (ACH)
andthe Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS). Procurement will be done usingthe
Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB andNational SBD agreedwith or
satisfactory to the Bank.

Selectionof Consultants.Consultants services from firms and individual are expected in
the following areas: technical assistance for studies and capacity building for the BNR,


                                            26

AMIR, the Rwanda Institute o f Certified Public Accountants (RICA), the Institute o f
Bankers, the Non Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs), and the Executive Secretariat o f
the Financial Sector Development Plan (FSDP), accounting and portfolio management
softwares for selected MFIs, hardware andother equipment for the payment system.

Shortlists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. It is envisaged to engage
universities, government research institutions, public training institutions, NGOs, and
other special organizations.

Operating Cost. Operating costs include: transport services, stationery, communication
expenses, and subsistence allowances for authorized travel. They will be procured using
CEDP administrative procedures which will be reassessedto check ifthey are acceptable
bythe Bank.

Other. The project will also fund the cost o f workshops, study tours and various
consultations with stakeholders regarding the project.          The training, workshops,
conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved annual
programs that will identifythe general framework o f training and similar activities for the
year, including the nature o f trainingstudy tours/workshops, the number o f participants,
and cost estimates.

Advertising.A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will beprepared and publishedupon
Board approval in the UN Development Business online (UNDB online) and in the
Development Gateway's dg Market and in a national newspaper, as provided in the
Guidelines, for all goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$250 000 and
above per contract and contracts for Consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent
ofUS$lOO 000 and above per contract, to obtain expression o finterest.

Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) will be required for all goods contracts procured by
I C B and NCB. SPNs will be published in national newspaper o f wide circulation and
internationally for large contracts (ICB)

C.      ProcurementCapacity

For the new structures to be supported by the additional financing (NBFIs, RICA, AMIR,
Institute o f bankers), unfamiliaritywith IDA procedures i s a factor o f risk that may delay
project implementation. Procurement staff at the PCU will identify relevant actors in
these structures andorganize their training inprocurement.

D.      ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, will develop a Procurement Plan for project implementation
which will provide the basis for procurement methods. The Procurement Plan for the first
18 months o f CEDP Project will be finalized. The Procurement Plan will be updated in




                                             27

agreement with the project team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

E.       Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of CEDP has recommended that supervision missions visit the field
once every six months to carry post review of procurement actions.

F.       Goods, Worksand Non-Consulting Services

Prior Review Thresholds.Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank
as stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines for Procurement:

I   IProcurement       Ceiling                              Prior Review Threshold

                       Equivalent o f US$250,000 and above  Equivalent of US$150,000 and above
                       per contract                         per contract
 2. LIB(Goods)         N/A                                  Equivalent o f US$150,000 and above
                                                            per contract
 3.  NCB (Goods)       Less than US$250,000 equivalent per  Equivalent of US$150,000 and above
                       contract                             per contract

 4.  International     Less than US$25,000 equivalent per                    NA
      Shopping         contract
      (Goods)
 5. National           Less than US$25,000 equivalent per                    NA
      Shopping         contract in accordance with National
      (goods, works    Tender    Board    Procedures   and
      and       non-   thresholds (see comments)
      consulting
      services)



G.       Selection of Consultants

Prior Review Threshold. Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as
stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment o f Consultants.


       Selection Method             Ceiling             Prior Review of   Prior        Review
                                                        TOR               Threshold(in US$)
 1.    Quality and Cost Based       Equivalent of US$ Yes                 100,000
       Selection   (Firms)-short    100,000 and above
       list   shall comprise of per contract
     I firms   with    a    wide
       geographic spread

       Selection   (Firms)-short    100,000 equivalent
       list may comprise entirely   per contract
       ofnational consultants



                                                 28

                               200 000 and above




                                50,000 equivalent
                               per contract



Training, Workshops and Study tours will be carried out on the basis o f approved annual
work programs that would identifythe general framework of training or similar activities
for the year, including the nature o f traininghdy tours/workshops, number o f
participants, and cost estimates. Selection o f training institutions would be based on a
competitive process using the quality-based selection method, consultants' qualifications
method, or single -source selection, in accordance with provisions o f paragraphs 3.2; 3.7
and3.8 through 3.12 o fthe Bank's Consultant Guidelines, respectively.


H.     Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants
for services, estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO        equivalent per contract, may
comprise entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.




                                            29

            03
         r0
          0

         -.
          rg
          3
         b0




           `C
            8
        -   PI




 g
.3
Y


trr
 8
 sE
Yu                0
                  m
3g
a
aw
M
       0
       W
'$
 g

e
*0
3


aE
 0




Pa,
scn
3%a
c,
280
0
h
0
Y
.3
cl
(II


n
W
cd

00
r
0
0
-.
vl
4
\o
0




            m
            i


Y




     0
      10

ca
0
Q
0
m
1
3
\o
0




M




N
m




(D l-

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above 100,000 per contract and all single
source selection of consultants (firms) for assignments will be subject to prior review by
the Bank




                                            33

                        Annex 6 -Project Preparation Team

          Name                                       Title                             Unit

Amadou D e m             Economist, Team Leader                                       AFTFP

AnnChristine Rennie-Aft  LeadFinancial Sector specialist                              AFTFP

Paul Murgatroyd          Consultant, Financial Sector                                 AFTFP

Mary Kamari              Consultant                                                   AFTFP

Irene Chacon             Operation Analyst                                            AFTFP

Josephine Ngou           ProgramAssistant                                             AFTFP

Massimo Cirasino         LeadFinancial Sector Specialist (Payment System)             FPDPR

Jose Antonio Garcia Luna Senior Financial Sector Specialist (Payment System)          FPDPR

Jennifer Isern           LeadPrivate Sector Specialist (microfinance, mobile banking) CGP

Mark Pickens             FinancialOperation Analyst                                   CGP

Enrico Pinali            FinancialSector Specialist                                   FPDFT

Chantal Kajangwe         Procurement Analyst                                          AFTPC

Otieno Ayany             FinancialManagement Specialist                               AFTFM

Sameena Dost             Sr. Counsel                                                  LEGAF

Aissatou Diallo          Finance Officer                                              LOAFC

Anna Victoria Gyllerup   M&ESpecialist                                                AFTRL

Diego Garrido Martin     M&ESpecialist                                                AFTRL




                                            34

                                         Annex 7 RepublicofRwandaat a Glance
                                                      -

   Rwanda at a qlance                                                                                                                      411f08

iKeg                                                                             Sub.
        Development Indicators                                               Saharan          Low
;?                                                               Rwanda         Africa     income           Age distribution. 2006
         . I                                                                                                            Male                PWhsl*
1 Population, mid.yQar[millions]                                                                                                   W
i:Surfacearea(thousand sq.km]                                        .w9.2         770       2.403            75.
                                                                               24,265       29,215
iUrbanpopulation [X
  Populationgrowth [A]                                                 2.3          2.3         1.8
                       of total population]                          A7             36          30
i1GNI  [Atlas method. US$ billions]                                   2.3          648       1,562
  GNI pel capita(Atlas method, US$]                                  250           842         650
i GNIper capita(PPP. international $1                              .(&'>W        2,032       2,698

  GDP growth [A]                                                       5.5          5.6        8.0               20       I O      Q        I O      2Q
  GDP per capita growth [A]                                            3.2          3.2         6.1                             pcrccnr

  ( h U 5 Z JQCQflZ @ S t h a Z Q . =-=TI

  Poverty headcount ratio at $1 aday [PPP,x ]
  Poverty headcount ratio at $2 a day (PPP. x ]                        60            41
                                                                       88           72                     Under-5 rnortalitgrate (per 1,000)
  LifeQHpQCtanCyat birth[years]                                        44           47          59
  Infantmortality [per 1,000livebirths]                                118          96          75
  Child malnutrition [A of childrenunder 5)                            23           29                      200

  Adult literacy,male( xofages 15 andOldQr]                            71           69          72          150
  Adult literacy.fQmdQ[X     Of ages 15 andolder]                      60           50          50
  Gross primary enrollment, male[A of agegroup]                        119          98         108          I O Q

  Gross primary enrollment,female [Z ot agr group]                     121          86          96            50

  Access to animprovedwater source [A of population]                   7+           56          75             0
  Access to improved sanitation facilities [A ofpopulation]            42           37          38                    I990   I995    ZOOQ   2005


                                                                                                                 0 Rwanda       El Sub-Saharan Africa


  Net Aid Flows                                        1980        1990         2000        2007 '

  /f ~~~?
  Net ODA andofficial aid                                154         288            321        576         Growthof GDP and GDP per
   Tcp.?c?#h-vS/d?.~t                                                                                      capita 1x1
    UnitedKingdom                                          0             1          53          82
    UnitedStates                                           7           13           23          63
    Netherlands                                            5            11          20          28

  Aid [xof GNI]                                          13.2        11.2          18.7       24.5
  Aid per capita[US$)                                     30           41           40          64

  Long-Term Economic Trends

i                                                                                              9.4
  GDP implicit deflator[annualx change]
  Consumer prices [annualx Change]                       7.2          4.2           3.9
                                                          3.1        13.5           3.3        8.8

  Exchangerate [annualaverage.local per US$]            92.8         82.6        389.7       550.1
  Terms of trade index(2000 = 100)                                     78           100         67
                                                                                                            1980-90 1990-2000 2000-07
                                                                                                                  / M a p mdgLwh.:$
  Population. mid.yQrr[millions]                         5.2           7.1          8.0        9.5                 3.1           1.2         d.?
  GDP [US$ millions]                                    1,163      2,58+         1,735       3,320                 2.2           1.4          ,?.?
                                                                     f?;:::'Cd~l
8 AgliCUltUrQ                                           49.6         33.2         37.2        35.6                 0.5          3.0           .? fi
IIndustry                                               23.3         25.1          13.6        14.1                2.5         -3.4           ,? .4
    Manufacturing                                        16.6        18.7           7.0        6.4                 2.6         4 0            Rfi
Iservices                                               35.3         43.7         49.2        50.3                 3.6           2.1          9.4

  Household finalconsumption eKpenditUrQ                83.3         83.7         87.7        84.9                 1.2          2.8           Rii
  GQnQralgOV't finalCOnSUmptlOnQ#pQndltUlQ               12.5        10.1           11.0      10.9                 5.2          0.1           >?ii
  Gross capital formation                                16.1        14.6          18.3       22.5                 4.3          1.5           R l

  Exports of goods andSQrVICQS                           14.4         5.6           8.7        9.4                 3.4         .3.8         M$
  Importsof goods andservices                           26.4         14.1         25.7        27.7                 2.6          5.0           C b
  Gross savings                                          13.3        11.3          12.9       17.6


  Note:Figures in italics are for years OthQrthanthose Specitled.2007 data are preliminary Group data are through 2006 indicates data are not available
  a Aid data are for 2005

I DQUQlOpmQntEconomics. DQVQiOpmQiltDataGroup[DECDG]




                                                                           35


                                                                                                                 2930'E                                                      3000'E                                                         3030'E                                                             3100'E
                            RWANDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kafunzo           Kagitumba
                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                        U G A N D A                                                                 To
                              INTARA (PROVINCE) HEAD OFFICES                                                                                                                                                                                   Kikagati

                              NATIONAL CAPITAL

                              RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kagera
                                                                                                                                              To                                                                                                                                           0         10         20   30    40 Kilometers

                              MAIN ROADS                                                                                                     Kisoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nyagatare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nyagatare
                                                                                                                                                                                       Muvumba
                              RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0               10          20         30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                Butaro
                                                                                                                                                                Butaro        Kabale
                              INTARA (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES                                                                                    Kidaho
                                                                                                                                              Kidaho                                                          Kagitumba
                                                                                                                                                            LacLac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LacLac
                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                      BureraBurera            Mulindi
                                                                                                                                                                                    Mulindi                                                        RwanyakizingaRwanyakizinga
                                                                                  130'S                             RuhengeriRuhengeri
                                                                                                                      Ruhengeri                                                             Gatunda
                                                                                                                                                                                            Gatunda
                                                                                                                                                      LacLac     Kirambo
                                                                                                                                                                 Kirambo                                                                                                                                                               130'S
                                                                                                     Volcan                                           RuhondoRuhondo                                                                                                         LacLac
                                                                                                  Karisimbi      Busogo
                                                                                                                 Busogo                                                                                                               Gabiro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gabiro                   MikindiMikindi
                                                 2900'E                                                                                                                                Byumba
                                                                                                   (4519 m)                                                 KinihiraKinihira
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ngarama
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ngarama
                                                                             To
                                                                           Rutshuru                                                                     P R O V I N C E                                                               P R O V I N C E                                        LacLac
                                                                         To        GisenyiGisenyi n
                                                                                        Viru                                                  Nemba
                                                                                                                                              Nemba
                                                                                   Gisenyi           Kagali
                                                                                                     Kagali                                              D U N O R D                            Kinyami
                                                                                                                                                                                                Kinyami                                D E L' E S T                                        HagoHago
                                                                        Sake                       ga
                                                                                    Nyondo
                                                                                    Nyondo                                                Muramba
                                                                                                                                          Muramba                                                                       Kiziguru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kiziguru                                               LacLac
             D E M . R E P .                                                                         Mts.                                                                                                                                                                    KivumbaKivumba
                                                                                                                    Kabaya
                                                                                                                    Kabaya                   Ngaru
                                                                                                                                             Ngaru                                                     Muhura
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Muhura                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                        Mbogo
                                                                                                                                                                        Mbogo                                               Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lac                 Rukara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rukara                                                    Bugene
                              O F                                                                                    Ngororero
                                                                                                                     Ngororero                       Nyabarongo                                                           MuhaziMuhazi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LacLac
                   C O N G O                                                                                                                                                  Shyorongi
                                                                                                                                                                              Shyorongi
                                                            Lac Kivu                                                                                                                                                                                                           IhemaIhema
                                                                                                                                                                                    V I L L E D E                                                                                                               T A N Z A N I A
                                                                                  Murunda
                                                                                  Murunda         P R O V I N C E                                                                       NyarugengeNyarugenge Gikoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gikoro                   RwamaganaRwamagana
                                                                                                 D E L' O U E S T                              Bulinga
                                                                                                                                               Bulinga                                  KIGALIKIGALI
                                                                                                                                                                   Runda
                                                                                                                                                                   Runda                                                                              Kayonza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kayonza
         200'S                                                                                                                                                                      K I G A L I                          Bicumbi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bicumbi                                                  LacLac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NashoNasho                                          200'S
                                                                                                        Mabanza
                                                                                                        Mabanza
                                                                                  KibuyeKibuye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LacLac
                                                                                                                                                     Gitarama
                                                                                                                                                     GitaramaGitarama                                                         LacLac                    Kigarama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kigarama                     LacLac         MpangaMpanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MugeseraMugesera                                CywambweCywambwe
                                                                           Gishyita
                                                                           Gishyita                                                                                                       Bugesera
                                                                                                                                                                                          Bugesera
                                                                                                                 Bwakira
                                                                                                                 Bwakira                                                                                      Rilima
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rilima                                    Kibungo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KibungoKibungo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sake
                                                                                                  Ngoma
                                                                                                  Ngoma
                                                                                                                                Masango
                                                                                                                                Masango                                                                    Gashora
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gashora
                                                                                                                                                        Ruhango
                                                                                                                                                        Ruhango                                                                                                                        Rusumo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Rusumo

                                                                                                                                          Gatagara
                                                                                                                                          Gatagara
                                                                                                                  P R O V I N C E                                                         LacLac
                                                                                                                                                      NyanzaNyanza                      CyohohaCyohoha
                                                                   Rwesero
                                                                   Rwesero                                           D U S U D                                                            SudSud                       Lac                     Kagera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rweru                                                            To
                                                                                                                              KarabaKaraba                                                                                                                                     Lusahanga
                                                                                                                                                      Rusatira
                                                                                                                                                      Rusatira
                                                                                                          GikongoroGikongoro
                                                                                                                 Gikongoro
         230'S                   To                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                         KitabiKitabi                             Karama
                                                                                                                                  Karama
                               Walangu      Cyangugu
                                            CyanguguCyangugu          Rwumba
                                                                      Rwumba                                                                                                                          Kirundo


                                      To                                                           RurambaRuramba
                                 Nyya-Ghezi                                                                                                         Butare
                                                                                                                                                    ButareButare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RWANDA
           This map was produced by                                                                               KibehoKibeho
           the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                  Kanzi
                                                                                                                                                       Kanzi
                                                                                                                                   Kibingo
                                                                                                                                   Kibingo
           World Bank. The boundaries,                       Bugarama                                            Munini
                                                                                                                 Munini
           colors, denominations and                                         To                                                                                     Akanyaru   B U R U N D I
           any other information shown                                     Cibitoke                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
           on this map do not imply, on                        To
           the part of The World Bank                        Cibitoke
           Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            33471R1
JUL        legal status of any territory,                                                                                         To               To
                                                                                                                                                  Ngozi
   Y       or any endorsement or                                                                                                Kayanza
    2007   a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h
           boundaries.                           2900'E                                                         2930'E                                                      3000'E                                                         3030'E

