Rwanda: Financial Sector Development Program                                                            93648
                                                                                                      September 20, 2012




 Rwanda: Financial Sector Development Program (FSDP)


Overview
The Financial Sector Development Program (FSDP) in Rwanda (Phase I and II projects) was
supported by the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening (FIRST) Initiative, a multi-donor
grant facility that provides technical assistance to promote financial sector strengthening. The
government mobilized more than US$30 million from other development partners and together
with the World Bank-financed Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project (CEDP),
more than 100 actions in banking, pensions, capital markets, payments system, and accounting
and auditing have been implemented to date. As a result, the banking system is sounder and
more competitive and asset quality has improved quite dramatically. Regulation and supervision
have strengthened considerably, and there has been comprehensive legal and regulatory
reforms, and significant growth in insurance, pensions and capital markets.



Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
Financial sector development was always a high
priority for the Government of Rwanda, which
sees it as an integral element of its long-term
plan to transform Rwanda into a middle-income
country and an economic trade and
communications hub.In the last decade,
Rwanda, like most other countries in Sub-
Saharan Africa, has followed an economic
liberalization program with privatization of the
financial sector to reduce financial repression,
encourage market-determined prices for financial
services, encourage entry of international
players, and enhance market competition.

However, despite all the reforms, the Rwandan authorities
                                                                       More Results
recognized that the financial sector's ability to play its role in
mobilizing savings, conducting effective intermediation, and

                                                                       100
financing its ambitious economic reform agenda was still far
from achievable.Following a 2005 Financial Sector
Assessment Program (FSAP) report prepared jointly by the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF),                  more than 100 stand-alone
                                                                       elements of FSDP action plan
which diagnosed and recommended solutions for a number                 successfully implemented.
of weaknesses in the financial sector, the Rwandan
government needed a plan for implementing the
recommendations in a systematic way. This need resulted in
the preparation of the Financial Sector Development
Program (FSDP), financed by the FIRST Initiative with                  10,000
technical assistance from the World Bank Africa Finance and       around 10,000 payment
Private Sector Development unit.                                  instructions per day are
                                                                  processed on the Automated
                                                                  Transfer System (ATS).
Approach
The first phase of the FSDP financed by FIRST (Phase I
project), approved in 2006 and completed in 2007, was             MORE INFORMATION
designed to prepare an action plan that prioritizes the areas
                                                                   FIRST Initiative
of technical assistance. Afterwards, FIRST financed a
second phase of the FSDP (Phase II project), approved in           FIRST Initiative: Financial Sector
2008 and completed in 2010, to provide technical assistance        Development Program, Phase I
                                                                   (2006-2007)
required to implement selected financial sector reforms
outlined in the plan, in particular to assist the National Bank    FIRST Initiative: Financial Sector
of Rwanda in drafting a Pension Law, Collective Investment         Development Program, Phase II
Scheme Law, and to strengthen the National Payments                (2008-2010)
System.                                                            Financial Sector Development
                                                                   Program (FSDP): The Case of
                                                                   Rwanda
Results
                                                                   World Bank: Competitiveness
Results of the FSDP Phase I:                                       and Enterprise Development
                                                                   Project (CEDP)
       Preparation of an FSDP action plan that prioritized the     African Development Bank:
       areas of technical assistance to implement                  Competitiveness and Enterprise
       recommendations for financial sector development            Development Project (Phase II)
       outlined in the FSAP 2005, with more than 240 stand-
       alone actions.

       Rwanda's Ministry of Finance established an FSDP
       management unit to oversee implementation of the
       action plan and coordinate donor support.



The Government of Rwanda presented the action plan to its development partners in 2007,
seeking financial and technical assistance for implementation. As a result, several donors made
commitments of financing or technical assistance in excess of US$30 million:



       World Bank: The Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project focused on
       microfinance; modernization of payment systems and non-bank financial institutions
       (NBFIs) and accounting and auditing (US$6 million).

       International Finance Corporation (IFC): Technical Assistance to prepare a legal
       framework for credit bureau and capital market development.

       IMF: Assigned a long-term resident advisor for NBFI supervision.

       UK Department for International Development (DFID): Financed baseline supply and
       demand surveys (FinScope national household survey), and subsequent Financial
       Sector Deepening Trust Fund (GB£15 million).

       Dutch Government: Supported conversion of Union des Banques Populaires du Rwanda
       (UBPR) into a commercial bank, with Rabobank becoming a strategic partner of UBPR
       in 2008.

       African Development Bank: Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
       (Phase II) (US$7 million).

       FIRST Initiative: Financed the FSDP Phase II (US$0.4 million).

Results of the FSDP Phase II:
       Successful implementation of more than 100 stand-alone elements of the FSDP action
       plan.

       Draft legislation for the regulation and supervision of collective investment schemes
       (CIS) was prepared and passed by the parliament. Legislation is expected to be
       published in the Official Gazette at the time of this brief.

       Preparation of an FSDP action plan that prioritized the areas of technical assistance to
       implement recommendations for financial sector development outlined in the FSAP
       2005, with more than 240 stand-alone actions.

       Draft legislation for the regulation of pension schemes and personal retirement savings
       accounts was prepared, and the legislation was enacted.

       FIRST assisted the National Bank of Rwanda (NBR) in preparing user requirements and
       technical specifications for the Rwanda integrated payments processing system
       (RIPPS) and drafting laws and regulation for payment systems . The RIPPS,
       financed by the World Bank Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
       (CEDP), consists of the Automated Transfer System (ATS) and the Central Securities
       Depository (CSD). The CSD is under implementation and is set to go live by mid April
       2011. The ATS is complete and was officially launched in February 2011. ATS volume
       at present is about 10,000 payment instructions per day.

Bank Contribution
The FSDP in Rwanda (Phase I and II projects) was supported by the FIRST Initiative with
more than US$1 million in contributions.The Bank-financed CEDP (US$6 million) mainly
supported four areas: (i) the payment system by setting up the Rwanda Integrated Payment
Processing System including the ATS; (ii) the Microfinance sector by strengthening the
capacity of the Microfinance Association, and selected MFIs; (iii) the Non bank financial
institutions by preparing the financial and organization audits of the insurance companies and
by strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank to supervise NBFIs; (iv) the Auditing and
Accounting standards by setting up the Institute of Certified Public Accountants and providing
training to key stakeholders.

Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project are Rwanda's financial sector stakeholders who, inter alia,
include the National Bank of Rwanda, the commercial banks, as well as non-bank financial
institutions in the country. Moreover, the consumers of financial services received the benefits
with increased access to financial services.

Partners
The FSDP (Phase I project) resulted in engagement of the entire financial sector of Rwanda,
with full ownership and participation in the process by the country government. More
international organizations and other donor agencies (World Bank, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, the United States, the IMF, and the African Development Bank) partnered with
FIRST after the presentation of the FSDP action plan to a broader community during the
structured workshop.

Toward the Future
The Rwandan authorities translated the diagnostics and most of the recommendations provided
by FIRST's consultants into policy decisions and reforms.The project has the potential to be
replicated in other countries with similar reform-minded environments, and, if possible, it should
be combined with World Bank-financed operations in financial sector development to leverage
additional resources to implement concrete actions and maximize the impact. Building on the
success of Rwanda's FSDP, FIRST developed a FSDP model to share with and replicate in
other countries.
