Rwanda: Improving the Investment Climate for Private Sector Development
                                                                                                     93646
                                                                                                     September 20, 2012




 RWANDA’S VISION 2020

 Improving the Investment Climate for Private
 Sector Development




Overview
Rwanda has steadily reformed its commercial laws and institutions since 2001 with support
from the World Bank Group. Rwanda was named the top reformer in Doing Business 2010,
having jumped 76 places from 143 to 67 in the annual ranking of 183 countries, the biggest
improvement ever by any country. As a result of the government’s commitment to reform, it is
now easier, faster and less expensive to do business in Rwanda.


Challenge                                            MULTIMEDIA
After the 1994 genocide, the Government of
Rwanda faced the daunting challenge of tackling
the structural barriers to poverty reduction. The
government was fully aware that strong growth,
led by private sector investment, was key to
helping the Rwandese population improve living
conditions and build a solid foundation for
reconciliation. The government has been
committed to pursuing the reform agenda and
removing barriers to entry or growth of private
businesses. It has recognized the challenge in
overcoming a perception of Rwanda as a high-
risk, landlocked and small country, unattractive
to existing and potential investors. The government has
accordingly embarked on an ambitious agenda of reforms to         3 days
establish a conducive environment for private sector              time taken to start a business,
development.                                                      down from 14 days


Approach
Two World Bank projects supported the government in its
effort to improve the investment climate: (i) the
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project,
                                                                  31%
                                                                  increase in total amount of
started by the International Development Association (IDA) in     registered investment since 2008
2001, and, (ii) the Rwanda Investment Climate Reform
Program, initiated through the World Bank Group’s
Investment Climate Advisory Services in 2007.
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION

                                                                   Country Website
The Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
was designed to establish a proper environment for growth          Country Brief
of the private sector and emergence of a more competitive          Competitiveness and Enterprise
investment climate – both measures that ultimately work to         Development Project (CEDP)
reduce poverty in Rwanda. It focused on preparing                     Country Partnership Strategy
commercial laws, supporting the government’s privatization
program through technical assistance for specific                     Data and Statistics
transactions, and improving the financial sector mainly
through capacity building and bank restructuring. This project
was later complemented by the Rwanda Investment Climate
Reform Program, which mainly focused on providing support
to facilitate business entry, business operations, taxation,
trade logistics, and public private dialogue. The two projects fostered active partnerships and
exploited synergies across program components. They provided targeted technical assistance
to improve the investment climate and developed institutions to help build sustainable capacity
and sustain the reform momentum.

Results

Rwanda has steadily reformed its commercial laws and institutions since 2001 with support
from the World Bank. Rwanda made the biggest-ever improvement in the Doing Business
reform category by jumping 76 places in one year, ranking 67 out of 183 countries in the 2010
report. The financial sector is also healthier, and together this progress reflects:

       Reforms have been adopted in 7 of the 10 doing business topics;

       Major laws were prepared and adopted, including a company law, a secured
       transactions law, an insolvency law, a labor law, a law establishing the commercial
       courts, and another establishing the commercial registration agency. A Doing Business
       unit has been set up within the Rwanda Development Board (RDB) and is effectively
       leading the preparation and implementation of the investment climate reform agenda
       through enhanced public-private dialogue. The one-stop center in the RDB is also more
       effective.

As a result, it is now easier, faster and less expensive to do business in Rwanda:

       Time to start a business was cut from 14 days to three days and the number of
       procedures was cut to two from eight. The cost of starting a business has dropped from
       109 percent to 10 percent of income per capita between 2008 and 2009;

       Time to register a property was reduced to 60 days from 371 days and the cost to
       register property dropped from 9.6 percent of property value to 0.5 percent between
       2007 and 2009;

       Time to import was reduced from 42 to 35 days, and time to export was reduced from
       42 to 38 days between 2008 and 2009.

       Fiscal administrative procedures for businesses are being streamlined and the Value
       Added Tax law amended, resulting in the reduction in the number of tax payments from
       34 to 26 and reduction in time to prepare, file tax returns and pay taxes from 160 hours
       to 148 hours between 2009 and 2010.

       All banks now comply with the required minimum capital adequacy ratio of 15 percent
       and the non-performing loans ratio has been decreasing falling to 12 percent in 2009
       from more than 30 percent in 2000.

Rwanda’s image as an investment destination has considerably improved and investments are
increasing:

       In 2009, the total amount of registered investment increased 31 percent to US$1.11
       billion from US$800 million in 2008.

       In 2009, nine of the 51 non-operational investment projects were revived with a total
      investment of US$ 127 million, creating more than 500 jobs.


Partners
Complementary partnerships were developed within the World Bank Groupto maximize
effectiveness. Indeed, the Doing Business unit within the Rwanda Development Board was
funded by IDA, and advised by IDA and IFC. The business laws prepared with the support of
IDA were also reviewed by IFC. Partnerships were also developed with other partners providing
support to investment climate reforms including Investment Climate Facility for Africa (ICF), the
US Agency for International Development, the UK’s Department For International Development
(DFID), and Germany’s GTZ. The Rwanda Investment Climate Reform Program was financed
by leveraging funds from IFC, Private Enterprise Partnership for Africa, DFID, and the Dutch
and Italian governments.

Moving Forward

The Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project is closing in June 2011. The project
is continuing to build the capacity of the Rwanda Development Board in order to sustain
reforms after project closing. A new program to support financial and private sector
development is being prepared. The program is expected to focus on supporting the
government’s effort in trade development, investment promotion and public-private partnerships
in infrastructure. The second phased of the Rwanda Investment Climate Reform Program is
expected to commence in November 2010. It will seek to address two main challenges: 1)
Broadening the investment climate reform agenda in Rwanda beyond the main indicators of
the Doing Business survey, and support the government in doing so through the establishment
of an effective national Public Private Dialogue platform; 2) Capitalizing on recent investment
climate improvements by accelerating investment and growth in specific sectors of the
economy.
