                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                    10/24/2011
                                                                           Report No.: AB6830
                                            (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                    CV-DPL 3-PRSC VII
Region                            AFRICA
Country                           Cape Verde
Sector                            Central government administration (40%);Aviation
                                  (20%);Energy efficiency in power sector (20%);General
                                  industry and trade sector (10%);Vocational training (10%)
Operation ID                      P122669
Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                       REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
Implementing Agency               INISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC
                                  ADMINISTRATION

Date PID Prepared                 October 20, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal       November 5, 2011
Estimated Date of Board           December 20, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision         Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                  proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}         Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                  other decisions are added

I.     Country and Sector Background
Located in the Atlantic Ocean about 500 km off the coast of Senegal, Cape Verde is a small
archipelago consisting of ten volcanic islands, nine of which are inhabited. The population is
currently estimated to be about 500,000. Cape Verde has long enjoyed remarkable political
stability and has built a solid reputation for good governance and responsible economic
management: it currently ranks first in the Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA)
for Africa, and recent reforms to improve its investment climate have made the country one of
the top performers in Sub Saharan Africa in the Doing Business reports. In December of 2007
Cape Verde graduated from Least Developed Country status (LDC); its formal recognition as an
MIC is expected to be confirmed at the end of 2012.

Services, and in particular tourism and tourism related industries, including real estate,
construction and air transportation, account for the lion share of Cape Verde’s GDP, which was
US$1.65 billion in 2010. The global financial crisis hit Cape Verde hard, initially through
decreases in FDI, remittances and tourism related receipts. Whilst GDP growth dropped to 3.6
percent in 2009, the government’s strong countercyclical fiscal response has helped Cape Verde
to mitigate the worst of the crisis and GDP growth is now edging back up to 6 per cent, its
annual average over the past decade.
In the short term, the Euro Zone sovereign crisis threatens to derail Cape Verde’s economic
performance. The government’s fiscal stimulus increased Cape Verde’s levels of indebtedness
substantially, with public debt rising to 66 percent in 2010. A pressing need to embark on fiscal
consolidation, combined with continued global economic uncertainty, and a shift to non-
concessional finance arising from MIC status, presents Cape Verde with a number of risks that
need to be prudently managed.


II.    Operation Objectives
The main development objectives of this one-tranche policy, the third in a series of three
programmatic operations are: (i) to promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the
use of public resources through improved debt management, public financial management
(PFM), procurement and information systems; (ii) to improve the qualifications of the workforce
to better meet labor-market demand through the expansion of vocational training activities; (iii)
to improve the investment climate through streamlining procedures for closing firms and
enhancing legal, regulatory and tax frameworks to foster increased private investment; and (iv)
to ease infrastructure bottlenecks through reforms in the management of the public electric and
water utility and the national air carrier.


III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement
Whilst Cape Verde’s policy of fiscal expansion has help to mitigate against the worst impacts of
the financial crisis, this fiscal space has been exhausted, and the government will not be able to
continue relying on expansionary public-investment policies to offset any weakened external
demand while maintaining debt sustainability. Furthermore, Cape Verde’s graduation to a
Middle Income Country in 2012 removes the ability to borrow on concessional terms. Ensuring
the public sector can respond to these challenges is essential to maintain macroeconomic stability
and to sustain high economic growth rates. Creating an attractive and competitive investment
environment will further bolster Cape Verde’s economic prospects by encouraging external
savings to finance much needed in investments.

Infrastructure investments are critically important to Cape Verde’s economy and its social
welfare. Infrastructure bottlenecks have become a binding constraint to growth, even before the
global financial crisis. Improvements in the key sectors of electricity, water and air transportation
have the potential to unlock untapped economic growth, and generate significant social benefits.

The proposed PRSC VII will support the government in continuing to invest in essential
infrastructure and services, obviating the need to reduce spending on essential social services,
which could potentially negatively impact the benefits in education and health, supported under
PRSC I through IV. To enhance Cape Verde’s competitiveness and future policy planning the
initiatives under PRSC VII target good governance; monitoring and evaluation of public policy,
including debt sustainability; streamlining taxes and investment codes; and enhancing the quality
and accessibility of vocational training.
IV.    Tentative financing

Source:                                                                        ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                             0
International Development Association (IDA)                                    9
Total                                                                          9


V.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The PRSC VII is overseen by the GPRSP-II Steering Committee, which is chaired by the
Minister of Finance. Under the umbrella of the Ministry of Finance all ministries involved in
supporting GPRSP-II objectives participate in the design, implementation and monitoring of the
donors’ joint Budget Support Matrix. The PRSC VII matrix is a subset of the Budget Support
Matrix, and these ministries are therefore also involved in the design, implementation and
monitoring of PRSC VII. The General Directorate for Planning, Budgeting and Management
(Direcção Geral de Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão, DGPOG) at the Ministry of Finance
will be responsible for the overall implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting on
its progress. The Bank will vet the prior conditions for effectiveness and disbursement. The
timing of this disbursement will depend upon the government’s ability to provide the Bank with
satisfactory evidence that the necessary conditions have been met. It will be the responsibility of
the DGPOG to present this information in a timely manner and in a format satisfactory to the
Bank.

VI.    Risks and Risk Mitigation
The main risks are: (i) Managing high fiscal and external deficits in the wake of worsening
global economic conditions. Debt indicators have worsened and borrowing will need to decrease
after 2012 in order for Cape Verde to maintain a moderate risk of debt distress. Meanwhile Cape
Verde remains at risk from protracted weaknesses in European markets (especially demand for
tourism services), further adverse shocks to European and global capital markets (sufficient to
impact FDI flows), and/or the continuation of high unemployment rates in Western Europe and
the United States (affecting remittances). Implementation of a strict debt management strategy
will be essential to mitigating this risk; (ii) Long-term growth risks posed by binding
infrastructure constraints. The successful restructuring of ELECTRA and TACV is not only
essential to attenuating the risk of contingent liabilities, but it is also vital to the long-term
competitiveness and growth of the Cape Verdean economy. This has been prioritized by the
current administration and will be supported by the PRSC VII and an IBRD project for the
energy sector; and (iii) Implementation capacity: Budget support requires substantial
administrative capacity to design and implement reforms and to monitor their impacts. The
limited number of technical staff in the public administration poses problems in this regard. To
address this risk in the short term the government’s budget support partners have made available
a combination of capacity building and technical support.
VII.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
The proposed operation is expected to have significant positive direct impacts on Cape Verde’s
poverty incidence and social conditions. From a fiscal perspective, the proposed budget support
operation will enable the government to simultaneously finalize its investment program and
increase in real terms its expenditures in basic social services (education, health, social
protection and culture). The indirect poverty and social impact of the reforms supported by the
operation are also anticipated to be highly positive, mainly through increased overall growth and
rising employment, in addition to improved resource allocation arising from implementing
stronger monitoring and evaluation systems. Furthermore, as well as enhancing efficiency in the
use of public resources, the operation should have a positive indirect impact on the government’s
ability to increase the quality and accessibility of social and infrastructure services. In particular,
restructuring of the energy and water sector could have significant welfare effects at a household
level, and improving the quality of vocational training could up-skill those groups with higher
than average unemployment e.g. youth (16-24 year olds) and women.

The specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC VII are not likely to have significant
positive or negative effects on the country's environment, forests, fisheries or other natural
resources due to their primarily administrative nature (public finance management, civil service
reform and decentralization, monitoring and evaluation systems, improved health care and social
protection). The reforms related to competitiveness and growth are not expected to have a
negative effect on the environment, there may however be positive indirect effects of reforms in
the energy sector. Better management of ELECTRA may improve the quality and quantity of
safe drinking water to the consumers and support ELECTRA’s plans for the generation of energy
through renewable sources, offsetting CO2 emissions and Cape Verde’s reliance on dirty, diesel
powered generators.

VIII. Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 458-5075
Fax:
Email: fblanco@worldbank.org


IX.    For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
