                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2722



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                  (IDA 46700, IDA 48400, and IDA 50520)



                                     ON

                          PROGRAMATIC CREDITS

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.5 MILLION, SDR 6.4 MILLION, AND SDR 7.9
                                MILLION
   (US$ 15 MILLION, US$ 10 MILLION AND US$ 12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                        REPLUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                  FOR THE

             POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDITS 5, 6 and 7
                       (PRSC-5, PRSC-6, PRSC-7)



                                 June 21, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

                     Currency Unit = CVE
                     CVE 1.00 = US$ 0.013
                     US$ 1.00 = CVE 74.65

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARAP      Regulatory Agency for Public Acquisitions
BSG       Budget Support Group
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CVE       Cape Verdean Escudos (local currency)
DPO       Development Policy Operation
DNP       Directorate of National Planning
DSCP      Public Procurement Directory
ELECTRA   Empresa de Electricidade e Agua (Cape Verde’s national electricity
          and water utility)
EROT      Esquema Regional de Ordenamento do Territorio (Island
          Development Plan)
ETS       Economic Transformation Strategy
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
GDP       Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GPRSP     Gross Domestic Product
HR        Human Resources
ICRR      Implementation Completion & Results Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INE       Instituto Nacional de Estatisticas (Cape Verde’s national statistics
          institute)
JSAN      Joint Staff Advisory Note
LDC       Least Developed Country
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTDS      Medium Term Debt Strategy
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTFF      Medium Germ Fiscal Framework
PD        Project Document
PDO       Program Development Objective
PDM       Plano de Desenvolvimento Municipal (Municipal Development
          Plan)
PEFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR    Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability

                                ii
       Review
PFM    Public Financial Management
PRSC   Poverty Reduction Support Credit
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SIM    Municipal Information System
SOE    State-Owned Enterprise
TA     Technical Assistance
TACV   Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde (Cape Verde’s national airline)
TVET   Technical Vocational Education and Training
WTO    World Trade Organization




            Vice President: Makhtar Diop
          Country Director: Vera Songwe
           Sector Manager: Miria Pigato
         Task Team Leader: Jose Guilherme Reis/ Fernando Blanco
         ICR Team Leader: Marek Hanusch




                            iii
                                                  CAPE VERDE
                                      Poverty Reduction Support Credit V -- VII


                                                              CONTENTS



A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ...................................................................................................................... vi
C. Ratings Summary .......................................................................................................... vi
D. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................................. vii
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................... ix
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... ix
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ...................................................................... x
H. Restructuring ................................................................................................................ xi

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 23

Annex 1 Prior Actions and Triggers Across the Series .................................................... 24
Annex 2. Key Outcome Indicators.................................................................................... 38
Annex 3. Matrix of Indicators ........................................................................................... 39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 48
Annex 10: Map of Cape Verde ......................................................................................... 50




                                                                       iv
A. Basic Information
Program 1
                                                                   Cape Verde - DPL
Country                Cape Verde               Program Name
                                                                   1/PRSC V
Program ID             P113306                  L/C/TF Number(s)   IDA-46700
ICR Date               06/21/2013               ICR Type           Core ICR
                                                                   REPUBLIC OF CAPE
Lending Instrument     DPL                      Borrower
                                                                   VERDE
Original Total
                       SDR 9.50M                Disbursed Amount   SDR 9.50M
Commitment


Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A
Program 2
                                                                   Cape Verde - DPL
Country                Cape Verde               Program Name
                                                                   1/PRSC VI
Program ID             P121812                  L/C/TF Number(s)   IDA-48400
ICR Date               06/21/2013               ICR Type           Core ICR
                                                                   REPUBLIC OF CAPE
Lending Instrument     DPL                      Borrower
                                                                   VERDE
Original Total
                       SDR 6.40M                Disbursed Amount   SDR 6.40M
Commitment


Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A
Program 3
Country                Cape Verde               Program Name       CV-DPL 3-PRSC VII
Program ID             P122669                  L/C/TF Number(s)   IDA-50520
ICR Date               06/21/2013               ICR Type           Core ICR
                                                                   REPUBLIC OF CAPE
Lending Instrument     DPL                      Borrower
                                                                   VERDE
Original Total
                       SDR 7.90M                Disbursed Amount   SDR 7.90M
Commitment


Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A




                                                v
B. Key Dates
Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V - P113306
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/13/2009     Effectiveness:             03/18/2010           01/26/2010
Appraisal:             10/15/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/17/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2010           06/30/2010

Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC VI - P121812
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/07/2010     Effectiveness:                                  12/22/2010
Appraisal:             10/29/2010     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/16/2010     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2011           06/30/2011

CV-DPL 3-PRSC VII - P122669
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/11/2011     Effectiveness:                                  07/24/2012
Appraisal:             11/08/2011     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/26/2012     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2012           12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
 Overall Program Rating
Outcomes                                          Moderately satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                       Moderate
Bank Performance                                  Moderately satisfactory
Borrower Performance                              Moderately satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
 Overall Program Rating
          Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry         Moderately satisfactory Government:                       (see overall)
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:  Moderately satisfactory                                   (see overall)
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Moderately satisfactory                              Moderately satisfactory
Performance                                      Performance



                                                 vi
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V - P113306
      Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                                  Indicators                                      Rating:
        Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Program
                           No                  Quality at Entry (QEA) None
at any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                        Quality of Supervision
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 (QSA)
 DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

 Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC VI - P121812
      Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                          Rating:
        Performance                                     any)
 Potential Problem Program
                           No                    Quality at Entry (QEA) None
at any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of Supervision
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   (QSA)
 DO rating before
                                                                        Moderately satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

 CV-DPL 3-PRSC VII - P122669
      Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                          Rating:
        Performance                                     any)
 Potential Problem Program
                           No                    Quality at Entry (QEA) None
at any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of Supervision
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   (QSA)
 DO rating before
                                                                        Moderately satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V - P113306
                                                                Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                          10                     10
Central government administration                                50                     50
General energy sector                                            10                     10
General industry and trade sector                                20                     20
Sub-national government administration                           10                     10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                      14                   14



                                                vii
Macroeconomic management                                     14        14
Other Private Sector Development                             14        14
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement     29        29
Regulation and competition policy                            29        29

Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC VI - P121812
                                                           Original   Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                     13         13
Central government administration                           62         62
General energy sector                                       13         13
General industry and trade sector                            8          8
Housing finance                                              4          4


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                      13        13
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                    12        12
Managing for development results                             13        13
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement     37        37
Regulation and competition policy                            25        25

CV-DPL 3-PRSC VII - P122669
                                                           Original   Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                    10         10
Central government administration                           40         40
General industry and trade sector                           30         30
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                10         10
Vocational training                                         10         10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                10        10
Education for the knowledge economy                          10        10
Infrastructure services for private sector development       20        20
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement     30        30
Regulation and competition policy                            30        30




                                                   viii
E. Bank Staff
    Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V - P113306
            Positions                   At ICR                           At Approval
    Vice President:        Makhtar Diop                      Obiageli Ezekwesili
    Country Director:      Vera Songwe                       Habib Fetini
    Sector Manager:        Miria Pigato                      Iradj Alikhani
    Task Team Leader:      Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio     Jose Guilherme Reis
    ICR Team Leader:       Marek Hanusch
    ICR Primary Author:    Marek Hanusch

    Cape Verde - DPL 2/PRSC VI - P121812
            Positions                    At ICR                          At Approval
    Vice President:        Makhtar Diop                      Obiageli Ezekwesili
    Country Director:      Vera Songwe                       Habib Fetini
    Sector Manager:        Miria Pigato                      Miria Pigato
    Task Team Leader:      Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio     Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio
    ICR Team Leader:       Marek Hanusch
    ICR Primary Author:    Marek Hanusch

    Cape Verde-DPL 3-PRSC VII - P122669
            Positions                   At ICR                           At Approval
    Vice President:       Makhtar Diop                       Makhtar Diop
    Country Director:     Vera Songwe                        Vera Songwe
    Sector Manager:       Miria Pigato                       Miria Pigato
    Task Team Leader:     Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio      Fernando Andres Blanco Cossio
    ICR Team Leader:      Marek Hanusch
    ICR Primary Author:   Marek Hanusch




F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)
 
The original program development objective for the overall program was to support policies and
institutions aimed at developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of sustainable growth
and poverty reduction. This included a significant emphasis on improved public sector
performance. The specific original program development objectives were broadly similar across
the series and are summarized in the below. In substance, they only differed in their wording,
although the infrastructure component (especially energy and transport) was mentioned more
explicitly in PRSC VI and VII.




                                                ix
Programs        Program Development Objectives

DPL 1/PRSC The main development objective of this operation is to support policies and institutions
V - P113306 aimed at developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of sustainable growth and
            poverty reduction. This will be done by focusing on two main policy areas: good
            governance and competitiveness and growth. (i) Good governance is interpreted broadly
            and includes the following issues: fiscal policy, PFM, procurement, M&E, statistics and
            state modernization. (ii) Competitiveness constitutes the main multi-sector anchor for the
            proposed operation and includes human capital, trade, tourism, financial services, tax,
            land management and energy issues.

DPL 2/PRSC (i) The consolidation of macroeconomic stability and further reinforcement of the
VI - P121812 effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector operations through the
             continuity of the government’s public sector reform agenda; (ii) the improvement of
             economic competitiveness through trade liberalization, the strengthening of financial
             supervision, and the enhancement of the investment climate; and (iii) the upgrading of
             performance in key infrastructure sectors, in particular energy and air transportation.

DPL 3-PRSC (i)To reinforce the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector
VII       - operations through the continuity of the government’s public sector reform agenda; (ii)
P122669     to improve the business climate through the rationalization of the fiscal incentive system
            and the streamlining of firm closing procedures; and (iii) to enhance the performance of
            the public energy utility and national air carrier


Revised Program Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

See Annex 3.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

N/A

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V - P113306
        Date ISR                                                               Actual Disbursements
No.                           DO                               IP
        Archived                                                                  (USD millions)
 1     03/03/2010         Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                 15

Cape Verde - DPL 2/PRSC VI - P121812
        Date ISR                                                               Actual Disbursements
 No.                           DO                              IP
        Archived                                                                  (USD millions)
  1    05/30/2013     Moderately satisfactory              Satisfactory                 10



                                                  x
Cape Verde - DPL 3/PRSC VII – P122669
        Date ISR                                                               Actual Disbursements
 No.                           DO                              IP
        Archived                                                                  (USD millions)
  1    05/30/2013     Moderately satisfactory        Moderately satisfactory            12

H. Restructuring (if any)

N/A.




                                                xi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Cape Verde, a small archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean, has been an African success
story. Since it gained independence from Portugal in 1975, it gradually developed strong
democratic institutions. In 2009, the beginning of PRSC series V-VII, Cape Verde’s CPIA score
was 4.2, one of the highest in Africa. In the years prior to the launch of the series, Cape Verde’s
economy expanded rapidly, supported by a set of market-based reforms, dating back to the
1990s, and a commitment to exchange rate stability—and in turn price stability—by pegging the
Cape Verdean escudo to the Portuguese escudo and eventually to the Euro. The relationship with
European countries proved transformative for Cape Verde, not only because of considerable
financial aid, but also in relation to soaring tourist arrivals from Europe and Foreign Direct
Investment in support of the thriving tourism sector. To a large extent, Cape Verde’s economic
ascent is due to the tourism sector. 1 In the years 2003-2008, growth averaged 7.2 percent
annually and Cape Verde’s per capita Gross National Income nearly doubled.2

2.     Strong economic performance translated into real progress on human development
outcomes. Poverty fell from 49 percent in 1988/89 to 37 percent in 2001/02 and 27 percent in
2007. Other social indicators, relating to water and sanitation, health, and education also
advanced. Inequality remained relatively high, 3 however, suggesting that the growth in
prosperity was not shared equally across society. Nevertheless, significant progress both in the
economic and social realm resulted in Cape Verde’s graduation from the United Nation’s Least
Developed Country (LDC) status in 2007.4

3.      The Cape Verdean government prepared early for the graduation from Least Developed
Country status. In 2003, the authorities presented an Economic Transformation Strategy (ETS)
which was intended to set the country on its future growth path. The ETS acknowledged the
country’s high external vulnerability as a poor small island state, dependent on international
trade and finance—especially on concessional finance which was to expire gradually upon
graduation from LDC status. It identified private sector-led growth, especially in services, as the
driver of the country’s future development whilst strengthening economic resilience. Although
Cape Verde had a vibrant tourism sector, other sectors were underdeveloped which was partly
attributed to a weak investment climate. For example, in the 2010 Doing Business ranking (based
on 2009 data), Cape Verde only occupied rank 146. Improving competitiveness and fully
mobilizing the country’s resources was at the heart of the ETS. To support growth and make
utmost use of the concessional financing window, the government embarked on an ambitious
public investment program.




1
     See Cape Verde’s Country Economic Memorandum of 2013. 
2
  Based on new GDP numbers, available from the national statistics institute (INE) from 2003-2010.
3
  The latest available data for the GINI index was 51, for the year 2002.
4
  To this point, Cape Verde is only one of three countries to have graduated from LDC status.
4.      In May 2008, the government of Cape Verde introduced its second Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP II) which reinforced the priorities laid out in the ETS. The
GPRSP II contained five pillars: a) government reform; b) human resources; c) economic
competitiveness; d) infrastructure; and e) social cohesion. The first four pillars reflect the core
principle of the ETS, acknowledging that an efficient government, high human capital, a
favorable investment climate, and supportive infrastructure are key to enabling private
enterprise. They would form a basis for the fifth pillar, social cohesion, which would be achieved
by sharing the proceeds and opportunities from strong economic growth. The Bank and IMF
reviewed the GPRSP II in a Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) dated May, 2008, and
commended the strategy as ‘comprehensive’ and ‘covering most of the challenges and areas of
action to foster growth and reduce poverty.’

5.       In 2009, the effects of the global financial and economic crisis reached Cape Verde,
initially through falling foreign aid, FDI, and tourism arrivals, as European countries were
engulfed in the sovereign debt crisis, Europeans could no longer secure long-term financing for
their real estate investments, and their appetite for travelling abroad slumped. In the boom years
leading up to the crisis, the government had created sufficient fiscal space to initiate stimulus
spending, especially by moving forward on its public investment agenda and by cutting business
taxes. In 2009, the full extent of the crisis was not yet foreseeable and a relatively quick recovery
was expected. However, there was a realistic understanding that with weaker growth and more
spending, public debt would rise again and that risks to the economic outlook were considerable.
The IMF, generally assessing Cape Verde’s macroeconomic management favorably, extended its
Policy Support Instrument by another year.

6.     The Bank published a new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Cape Verde in 2009,
aligning itself strongly with the pillars of the GPRSP II. The Bank acknowledged the need to
improve the conditions for private sector-led growth, especially against the backdrop of the
deepening economic crisis. The purpose of the PRSC V-VII series was to assist the government
with implementing its strategy to sustainably address economic vulnerabilities in trying times.
The PRSC series thus also aligned itself with the pillars of the GPRSP II. Finally, it is important
to note that, apart from the policies it supported, the operation created fiscal space for the
government to sustain public investment as economic performance weakened. 

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The original program development objective for the overall program was to support
policies and institutions aimed at developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of
sustainable growth and poverty reduction. This included a significant emphasis on improved
public sector performance. The specific original program development objectives were broadly
similar across the series and are summarized in the below. In substance, they only differed in
their wording, although the infrastructure component (especially energy and transport) was
mentioned more explicitly in PRSC VI and VII.

8.      While 39 results indicators were identified over the three operations, there were four key
indicators at approval of PRSC V. A list of all key indicators across the series can be found in
Appendix 2.



                                                 2
Programs Program Development Objectives

PRSC V       The main development objective of this operation is to support policies and
             institutions aimed at developing a dynamic private sector to be the engine of
             sustainable growth and poverty reduction. This will be done by focusing on two
             main policy areas: good governance and competitiveness and growth. (i) Good
             governance is interpreted broadly and includes the following issues: fiscal policy,
             PFM, procurement, M&E, statistics and state modernization. (ii) Competitiveness
             constitutes the main multi-sector anchor for the proposed operation and includes
             human capital, trade, tourism, financial services, tax, land management and energy
             issues.

PRSC VI      (i) The consolidation of macroeconomic stability and further reinforcement of the
             effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector operations through
             the continuity of the government’s public sector reform agenda; (ii) the
             improvement of economic competitiveness through trade liberalization, the
             strengthening of financial supervision, and the enhancement of the investment
             climate; and (iii) the upgrading of performance in key infrastructure sectors, in
             particular energy and air transportation.

PRSC VII     (i)To reinforce the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector
             operations through the continuity of the government’s public sector reform agenda;
             (ii) to improve the business climate through the rationalization of the fiscal incentive
             system and the streamlining of firm closing procedures; and (iii) to enhance the
             performance of the public energy utility and national air carrier



1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

9.       The program development objectives defined at the beginning of the series remained
unchanged. However their wording changed slightly, refining the choice of language from
previous PDs. Key indicators changed considerably across the series and steadily increased over
the course of the series, from 4 for PRSC V, 5 for PRSV VI and 8 for PRSC VII (see Appendix
2). In fact, not a single key indicator carried across all three components of the PRSC series.
Reform of ELECTRA, the national utility, is the only area that key indicators, in different forms,
focused on. These discrepancies are due to several factors. In some cases, it became evident that
data on indicators would not be easily available (e.g. procurement reform and non-complying
sole-source contracts). In other areas, progress on legislative reform was delayed and results
would not be visible during the course of the series (e.g. financial reform and capital adequacy
ratios). Finally, during the course of the series, priorities shifted, in particular toward the losses
of TACV, the national airline, and to the need to foster private sector-led growth against the
backdrop of an economic crisis; this was reflected in the choice of key indicators.




                                                  3
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program:

10.     Altogether, PRSC V through PRSC VII supported four main policy areas namely (i) good
governance; (ii) human capital enhancement; (iii) competitiveness; and (iv) infrastructure. PRSC
VI-VII explicitly had all the four main policy areas while PRSC V only highlighted (i) good
governance; and (ii) competitiveness and growth. However, human capital enhancement, and
infrastructure were embedded as pillars, often with benchmark indicators, in the program
supported by PRSC V. Reforms in the pillar on social cohesion included in PRSC V were
dropped. PRSC V had included this area to align itself with the government’s GPRSP II.
However, as the government increasingly considered this area as cross-cutting, the series was
already wide-ranging, and this component was rather weak, the team for PRSC VI and VII
decided to abandon it.

11.    Good governance: This area addressed issues related to fiscal policy, public financial
management, procurement, state modernization, and statistical development and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) capacity. At the inception of the series, Cape Verde had made considerable
progress on fiscal consolidation but the government lagged behind on the clearance of arrears
and other contingent liabilities. A Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
exercise conducted in 2008 had also revealed major shortcomings in external and internal
auditing among others. The state procurement system did not have the necessary legal
framework and institutional capacity resulting in a lack of transparency and efficiency. With
regards to state modernization, the issues pertained to ineffective state structures including civil
service regulations, and the concentration of responsibilities and resources at the central level
thus hindering service delivery. The lack of timely and reliable statistical information and the
underdeveloped M&E system also begged for the establishment of a national statistical system
and the implementation of a national M&E system.

12.     Human capital enhancement: The program mainly focused on vocational training,
matching workforce skills to employer demand. In fact, Cape Verde enjoyed a relative quality of
human capital but the high rate of both unemployment and unfilled jobs indicated a mismatch
between labor supply and demand requirements. As primary and secondary education coverage
had increased significantly in the years preceding the first PRSC, actions to strengthen vocational
training were much needed.

13.     Competitiveness: The competitiveness agenda of the program tackled trade openness,
tax policy, the financial sector and business climate improvements. Cape Verde became member
of the WTO in 2008; however, the country’s legislation governing trade was not fully compatible
with WTO rules (especially with respect to the customs code, investment code, intellectual
property rights, and the ecological tax of 2003). To benefit from WTO membership, it was
important to streamline national legislation accordingly. Additionally, private sector activities
were hampered by a complex tax system, high tax rates for corporations and investments, and a
distortive system of tax incentives. As for the financial sector, existing legislation did not provide
adequate authority to the Central Bank to perform its supervisory role, and different regulations
for onshore and offshore banking threatened the stability of the system. Lastly, the business
environment suffered from ineffective and excessive regulations including high credit-recovery
risks and financing costs.



                                                  4
14.      Infrastructure: The emphasis was on capacity and efficiency improvements in public
utilities in energy and transportation (air) sectors. In terms of land management, a lack of island-
based and municipal planning had led to the growth of slums around major cities and the
legislative framework governing land use and the definition of property rights was weak. In
energy, the state owned enterprise ELECTRA was experiencing chronic financial problems due
to underinvestment, which had also resulted in an unreliable supply of energy. The transport
sector faced poor operational and commercial performance resulting in the deterioration of
TACV’s financial situation.

15.     Strengthen Social Cohesion: The initial aim of the series was to improve the targeting
of social protection programs in the third year. This pillar was dropped in PRSC VI and VII, as
mentioned above.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

16.     The policy areas did not change in substance over the course of implementation of the
series although social inclusion was initially envisaged for PRSC VII and then dropped.

1.6 Other significant changes

17.    PRSC VII was originally planned for calendar year 2011 which is fiscal year 2011 for the
Cape Verdean government. However, due to concerns over the macroeconomic framework, it
was delayed until early 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

18.     The PRSC series played an important role in supporting the government’s policy agenda.
As the government embarked on an ambitious economic transformation program, including a
heavy public investment component, fiscal deficits were expected to be large. As Cape Verde
does not have access to international markets and domestic borrowing is limited to about 20
percent of GDP (in order to maintain the exchange rate peg with the euro), the country had to
rely on budget support to close financial gaps. The World Bank’s DPO instrument was an
important source of funding for the government.5 In addition, the DPO series provided a useful
tool for interaction with the government, supporting the implementation of ‘soft’ policies, to
complement ‘hard’ infrastructure investment, especially with respect to institutional reform and
capacity building. The operation consisted of three programmatic components, with tranches of
$15 million (PRSC V), $10 million (PRSC VI) and $12 million (PRSC VII).




5
  However, in terms of volume, the African Development Bank and the European Union account for a greater
portion of total budget support. 



                                                      5
19.     Some of the triggers envisioned in PRSC V were redefined in PRSC VI and VII (see
Appendix 1). In most cases, changes were refinements of the wording of previously envisaged
triggers as the team made a strong effort to spell out precisely the conditions for meeting a prior
action. More substantive changes can be summarized as follows: 1) streamlining similar
indicators (e.g. the investment code and tax code which were interrelated); 2) adding new actions
as new priorities emerged (e.g. the Medium-Term Debt Management System, MTDS, against a
worsening fiscal situation); 3) dropping actions due to faster implementation than expected (e.g.
application of IFRS accounting in the financial sector); 4) dropping actions due to slower
implementation than expected (e.g. an action on PEMFAR, an assessment which was not
organized by the development partners until the series had closed).

20.     Although policy actions were adjusted over the course of the series, overall there was a
strong consistency of the general policy areas, especially with respect to: government arrears and
debt management, audit, procurement, supervision of municipalities, statistics, financial stability,
and the functioning of State Owned Enterprises SOEs (electricity and later aviation). The table
below lists the prior actions for each PRSC series. All prior actions were met (a pre-condition for
disbursement).

                                                  PRSC-V
List of prior actions from Legal Agreement/Program Document
                                Policy area 1: Promote Good Governance
Completed the implementation of the second phase of the 2005 plan for the clearance of public arrears as
evidenced by the reduction of outstanding public arrears to 16 percent of the original stock.
Submitted to its National Assembly the audited: (a) State General Accounts for the year 2006; and (b)
accounts of key municipalities and embassies.
Approved, through its Council of Ministers the regulations of the new Public Procurement Law.
Completed the implementation of SIM in 11 of the Recipient’s municipalities.
Approved, through its National Assembly, the Statistical Law.
                          Policy Area 2: Support Competitiveness and Growth
Approved through its Council of Ministers, the reduction in corporate tax rates for businesses.
Completed the initial phase of implementation of the Recipient’s action plan which will adjust the
Recipient’s procedures and legislation on trade to those of WTO rules as evidenced by: i) approval of the
Ecological Tax bill by the Council of Ministers; and ii) approval by Council of Ministers of the draft-law
for the customs code consistent with the WTO agreement.
Approved, through: (a) its Council of Ministers, the Cadastre Decree- Law; and (b) its Prime Minister
Office, the appointment of a task force empowered to implement it.
Reduced exposure of off-shore banking as shown by the closure of a noncompliant offshore institution.
Approval by Council of Ministers of a medium term development strategy for the electricity sector.

                                              PRSC-VI
List of prior actions from Legal Agreement/Program Document
                                   Policy Are1: Good Governance
The complete clearance of the government arrears assumed in 2005 except the arrears with the municipal
chambers which will be offset off with the debts owed by these municipal governments with the
government.
 The completion of the audit of the state accounts for 2007 by the Court of Accounts to the National
Assembly, including audits of the accounts of 13 municipalities, 5 embassies and 3 institutes, and the
government’s submission by the Council of Ministers to National Assembly of the state accounts for 2008



                                                    6
and 2009.
The full operationalization of the Public Procurement Directorate (DSCP) according to: (a) the adoption of
the decree by the Council of Ministers establishing it and defining its role; and (b) the issuance of its action
plan for 2010 by the General Directorate of Patrimony and Public Procurement (DGPCP).
The enhancement of the government’s human resources management system as demonstrated by the
adoption by the Council of Ministers of the related decree allowing for the mobile placement of civil
servants.
Progress on the institutionalization and implementation of the M&E system as evidenced by: (a) the
adoption of the resolution by the Council of Ministers creating the Implementation Committee for the
National M&E System (Commissão de Operacionalização do Sistema de Seguimento e Avaliação,
COSiSA); (b) the completion of the platform linking the M&E system to the INE; (c) the inclusion in the
Integrated Financial Management System for the government budget of the M&E indicators for the
government programs in education, health, agriculture and infrastructure; and (d) the issuance by the
Ministry of Finance of the Scope of Vision of the M&E government system.
                                      Policy Area 2: Competitiveness
Adoption of the draft banking law by the Central Bank board and its submission to the Council of
Ministers, thereby strengthening the Central Bank’s supervisory authority and unifying the legislation
regarding onshore and offshore banking activities.

Improvements in the business climate as evidenced by: (a) submission of the draft bankruptcy law by the
Business Development and Innovation Agency (ADEI) to the Council of Ministers; and (b) the switch from
ad-valorem to fixed rates for real estate and commercial registration duties.
                                        Policy Area 3: Infrastructure
Improvements in the organizational structure of ELECTRA and measures to improve its operational and
commercial performance as evidenced by: (a) the adoption by ELECTRA Board of a comprehensive
investment plan, including financing and implementation schedule; (b) the adoption by the Council of
Ministers of the institutional restructuring program for ELECTRA including a roadmap for its
implementation and the creation and registration of the two new subsidiaries; (c) the adoption by
ELECTRA board of a set of measures to improve commercial and operational performance (billing, use of
fuel oil and transmission losses); (d) the issuance by ELECTRA Board of a time-bound action plan to
restructure the arrears with its providers and initial actions inviting the creditors to negotiate the
rescheduling of these arrears.
Improvement in TACV’s operational, financial and commercial management as evidenced by: (a) the
presentation of its annual balances for 2007, 2008 and 2009 (including audited balances for 2007); (b) the
complete clearance of arrears with its private suppliers, and the proper execution of its debt rescheduling
agreement with ASA including adherence to the agreed debt service schedule; (c) the establishment of an
integrated accounting and receipt collection system; and (d) adoption of a set of appropriate measures by
the Board of TACV to reduce costs and improve the operational performance such as personnel
rationalization measures, the suspension of several costly employee benefits including free airfare
allowances for family members and a new sales and distribution policy to increase revenues.

                                                PRSC VII
                    List of prior actions from Legal Agreement/Program Document
                                     Policy Area 1: Good Governance
The issuance of the Medium-Term Debt Strategy (MTDS) for 2012-15 by the Ministry of Finance.
Submission of the State General Accounts of 2010 by the government to the Parliament and the adoption of
the new budget classification system;
Further strengthening of the government’s procurement system as demonstrated by: the complete staffing
of the ARAP management directorate, the establishment of the ARAP Consultative Council and its Conflict



                                                       7
Resolution Committee, and the recruitment of all necessary staff for the ARAP auditing and policy
departments
The satisfactory implementation of the Statistical Agenda as evidenced by the approval of the relevant INE
statutes and the national system of statistics and the passage of all necessary complementary legislation.
                                Policy Area 2: Human Capital Enhancement

The satisfactory implementation of the TVET Action Plan for 2010 as evidenced by: (a) the adoption of a
new decree defining the statutes and mandate for the Employment and Professional Training Institute and
the restructuring of the Employment Centers; (b) the establishment of an operational Coordinating Unit for
the National System of Qualifications; (c) the adoption of new operating procedures by the TSF; and (d)
the accreditation of four additional centers for vocational training in 2011.
                 Policy Area 3: Competitiveness: Trade, Taxation and Business Climate
The adoption of the new Investment Code by the Council of Ministers (approval of regulations on fiscal
incentives was excluded from the prior action)
The adoption of the new Intellectual Property Law by the Council of Ministers
The adoption by the Council of Ministers of the Rehabilitation of Firms and Bankruptcy Law and the
submission of the draft Bankruptcy Law for public consultation
                                      Policy Area 4: Infrastructure

Further improvements in ELECTRA’s performance as evidenced by: (a) the adoption of the action plan for
the second phase of its institutional restructuring; (b) the design of a comprehensive, realistic and time-
bound approach to the financial restructuring of ELECTRA including recapitalization, the restructuring of
short-term debt and establishment of financing mechanisms for public lighting; (c) the adoption of a new
regulatory tariff-adjustment model compatible with ELECTRA’s institutional restructuring; and (d) the
signature of a results-based management contract between ELECTRA and the General Directorate of the
Treasury.
Further improvements in TACV’s operational, financial and commercial management as evidenced by: (a)
the presentation of the audited annual accounts for, 2008, 2009 and 2010; (b) the maintenance of zero
arrears in the balance for 2010; and (c) the acquisition of an integrated accounting system for the timely
preparation of budget reports.


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

21.     Economic factors. The economic crisis of 2009 cast a shadow over the period of PRSC
V-VII. The crisis had both positive and negative effects on implementation. Among the positive
impacts was the greater urgency for the government to proceed with its reforms, which sustained
momentum. As the global fiscal situation worsened, ODA slowed, and the authorities tried to
sustain their ambitious public investment program, the underlying weaknesses in SOEs became
an increasing liability. This provided the incentive to tackle deep structural problems in SOEs.
Similarly, pressing ahead with measures to improve Public Financial Management received
greater urgency as the government was aware that it needed a better-performing administration
for efficient revenue collection and fiscal policies in a deteriorating economic environment. In
fact, as a negative impact, the high deficits in a weak economic environment in 2011 resulted in
a delay of PRSC VII, initially planned to be approved by the Board in December 2011. Only
once a detailed assessment of the macroeconomic framework was completed toward the end of
the IMF’s second review of the PSI could the operation proceed.



                                                     8
22.     On the other hand, there were also negative effects. The economic downturn was coupled
with a simultaneous surge in global food and fuel prices, reducing household disposable income.
This made reforms that resulted in price increases particularly difficult. A case in point is
ELECTRA which has struggled for many years to enforce tariffs or pass on input prices to
consumers, resulting in considerable accumulation of arrears. In a climate of high fuel prices,
political economy considerations weighed strongly as people, especially the poor, were
particularly vulnerable to higher prices.

23.     In addition, the deteriorating macro-economic situation delayed PRSC VII. In October
2011, the ROC did not authorize the team to negotiate, citing macro-concerns. The team
conducted a mission following the meeting and to assess the situation in more detail. Eventually,
it was agreed in January 2012 that the macroeconomic situation had improved sufficiently and
the amount of the operation would be increased by 2m USD in order to assist the country with its
international reserves which had reached low levels due to the government’s expansionary fiscal
policy under a pegged exchange rate and weak aid and FDI flows. This delay resulted in
negotiations in January 2012 (however, negotiations could only begin in May for additional,
political reasons as explained below).

24.     Political factors. General elections were held in 2011 and thus during the first two
operations in the series they raised concerns that the government might relinquish or weaken its
reform agenda in its bid for re-election. Eventually, for the first time in Cape Verde’s history, the
prime minister and the president were from opposing parties. Generally, the political system
coped well with this new reality. However, the elections did distract the government from its
reform effort and, after the election, there have been some delays but no less commitment to
reform. The President has intervened at times. For example, the President submitted the
investment code to the parliament instead of promulgating it directly, as originally envisaged in
the prior action. This contributed to an additional delay of 4 months for the approval of PRSC
VII, but may have had the benefit of enhancing ownership and hence the sustainability of this
reform.

25.     Donor coordination. A final factor, a positive influence on implementation, was the fact
that donor activity was strongly coordinated. Partly this happened through the Planning
Department in the Ministry of Finance which was the sole focal point for all donors (rather than
several focal points in line ministries). In addition, the joint Budget Support Group, bringing all
donors together has streamlined the donor efforts in supporting the government.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

26.     The monitoring and evaluation framework for the PRSC V-VII series was overseen by
the country’s GPRSP II Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. Under the
umbrella of the Ministry of Finance all ministries involved in supporting GPRSP II objectives
participated in the design, implementation and monitoring of the donors’ joint Budget Support
Matrix. The performance matrix for the PRSC V-VII series was a subset of the Budget Support
Matrix and the ministries were therefore involved in the design, implementation and monitoring.
The General Directorate for Planning, (Direcção Nacional de Planejamento), DNP, at the




                                                 9
Ministry of Finance was responsible for the overall implementation of the proposed operation
and for reporting on its progress.

27.     Design.  The World Bank team has worked in close collaboration with the government
and its budget support partners to ensure the adequate monitoring and evaluation of the series.
Unfortunately, most indicators were not aligned with the system of indicators of the GPRSP II.
Most of the indicator data had to be supplied directly by the authorities (e.g. the DNP, the boards
of TACV and ELECTRA). For some of the indicators in PRSC V baseline data could not easily
be obtained (e.g. number of non-complying sole source contracts); in other areas, the definitions
of the units were not clear (e.g. amount of ELECTRA arrears toward its suppliers: the value was
‘100’ but the units were not indicated). During PRSC VI and VII the quality of the indicators
improved with regards to data collection.

28.      M&E Implementation: The Bank provided support to strengthen the government’s
statistical capacity and the effectiveness of its M&E system. In particular, the Bank monitored
the availability of household survey data on the national data website and the use of indicators to
track the performance of public investment projects and programs in the M&E system. However,
despite endeavors to improve the national M&E system, statistical capacity remained relatively
weak, in particular in the national statistics agency, INE. TACV did not have income statements
available in the early phase of the operation and ELECTRA has not been forthcoming with
recent information. Thus, the scope for adequate M&E implementation was somewhat limited.

29.    M&E Utilization: Data for many of the indicators were difficult to obtain and the Bank
teams did not make good use of ISRs. A brief ISR was only prepared for PRSC V but not for the
following two operations. However, within the framework of the biannual budget support group
missions and other missions, the evaluations of the bank team and other donors supported the
policy dialogue with the authorities which contributed to progress on reforms (e.g. in transport
and energy). 

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

30.    It is planned that PRSC V-VII will be followed in 2013 by a US10 million equivalent
operation. PRSC VIII will be the first in a programmatic series of three annual operations
designed to support the implementation of the Cape Verdean government’s Third Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSPII) covering the period 2012-2016. Consistent with
the objectives of GPRSP III, the PRSC series will support policies and institutional reforms
aimed at: (i) bolstering the country’s resilience to external shocks; (ii) increasing the productivity
of key economic sectors; and (iii) enhancing human capital to improve overall competitiveness
and reduce poverty.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: High
Design: Moderate
Implementation: Substantial

                                                 10
31.     Objectives. The objectives of the DPO series were highly relevant at the time of its
inception and throughout its duration until completion. The government’s ETS and GPRSP II
and the Bank’s CPS acknowledged the need for Cape Verde to build the conditions for growth as
a middle income economy, following the country’s graduation from LDC status. Unleashing the
potential for private sector-led growth required overall macroeconomic stability, a favorable
investment climate, and supportive infrastructure. The need to reduce SOE losses and foster
growth —and enhance the capacity to deal with fiscal shortfalls—became even more pronounced
as the economic crisis of 2009 unfolded. The emphasis on these areas in the DPO was thus
appropriate.

32.    Design. The different operations within the series demonstrated a high degree of
continuity as all policy areas that were supported with prior actions in PRSC V were also
supported in PRSC VI-VII (although triggers and indicators changed as explained above).

33.      On the other hand, sufficient flexibility was given to maintain a meaningful policy
interaction with the government. For example, during the preparation of PRSC VI, adjustments
were made to ‘take into account exogenous factors not under the control of the government, or
capacity constraints that have affected the speed of the program implementation.’ This means
that, as explained above, triggers were adjusted relatively frequently.   

34.     Prior actions were generally well designed and in most cases attributable to the
government. An exception is a prior action of PRSC VII requiring the maintenance of zero
arrears at TACV in the balance of the previous year—this action was not entirely under the
control of the authorities (e.g. exogenous shocks could increase costs, rendering full repayment
of arrears impossible). It should also be noted that prior actions in PRSC VI and VII were broken
down into several sub-actions, thus effectively multiplying the prior action matrix somewhat
beyond what is generally expected.

35.     Indicators were linked relatively well to specific actions. However, the quality of
indicators was weak for several reasons: 1) Indicator data would be difficult or impossible to
obtain (e.g. TACV indicators in the absence of operational internal accounts); 2) indicators and
prior actions were virtually identical (e.g. the reduction of business taxes); 3) some indicators
were not directly attributable to prior actions (e.g. ‘imports + exports as a percentage of GDP’ to
measure the effect of the customs and investment code—during an economic crisis); 4) the
indicators did not allow for a sufficient time lag for reforms to show effects (e.g. the effect on
capital adequacy ratios from the drafting of a law on financial regulation—parliament still has
not passed this law). There was also a shortage of baseline data.

36.     Implementation. At the implementation stage, the Cape Verdean authorities received
assistance from the Bank and other donors in joint projects. The Bank pooled resources across
departments, working on energy, transport, and the investment climate. Several analytical studies
supported the program, in transport, the business climate, PFM, and others. TA was given,
amongst others, in the areas of debt management, procurement, audits, energy, and the
investment climate. In addition, less formalized policy dialogue between the Bank and the




                                                11
 authorities had considerable impact, most notably with regards to restructuring at TACV, the
 national airline.

 3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

 Rating: Moderately satisfactory

 Sub-ratings:
 Promote good governance: satisfactory
 Competitiveness: moderately satisfactory
 Infrastructure: moderately unsatisfactory
 Human capital enhancement: moderately unsatisfactory
 Social cohesion: satisfactory

 37.     The overall program development objective of PRSC V-VII was to foster private sector-
 led growth. At the macro-level it focused on supporting a stable economic environment by
 strengthening the effectiveness and responsiveness of the government. At the micro-level, the
 private sector was to be stimulated by improving the investment climate and addressing
 infrastructure-related obstacles to doing business, such as energy and transportation.

 38.     Gauging the effect of the DPO series on private-sector growth is difficult. To a large
 extent, growth in Cape Verde mirrors growth in Europe, as close links exist through trade
 (especially tourism), FDI, remittances, and migrant deposits. It is impossible to establish a
 counterfactual to assess whether the DPO series moderated the internationally-driven drag on
 growth. Looking at the developments in individual indicators tracked by the series, however,
 provides a flavor of the positive contributions of the operations to supporting private sector-
 growth. 

 Promote Good Governance (satisfactory)

 Key outcome indicators
   PRSP           Results Framework          Base-   2010     2011    Latest      Target*   Evalu-
   Policy                                     line                   Available*              ation
   Area                                      2009
  Macro-       Remaining government          15      0               0            0         S
 economic      arrears (% of total arrears
 Stability     assumed in 2005)
   PFM:        Number of years to submit     3       1               <1           <1        S
 External      the General Accounts of the
 Controls      State to the Court of
               Accounts
  Procure-     % of non complying sole                        9.6     9.6         0         U
    ment       source contracts.                                     (2011)       (2011)
               Number of audits prepared     0       3               >10          >10       S
               by ARAP
               % of project and program      NA      80       0      100          100       S
               for which indicators are
               tracked by the M&E system.
*2012 unless stated otherwise
See Appendix 3 for all indicators.


                                                         12
39.    The above table focuses on the key indicators. All other indicators and ratings can be
found in Appendix 3.

40.     In the area of ‘good governance’, considerable progress was made with regards to
macroeconomic stability, public financial management (PFM), procurement, and state
modernization. The emphasis on strengthening the fiscal capabilities of the government was
crucial as the economic crisis unfolded and it was strongly aligned with the GPRSP II.

41.    The operation supported the government in developing structural tools with which to
improve its fiscal capabilities, including a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), a
Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF) (not actions in the series but part of the accompanying
policy dialogue) and, later, a Medium Term Debt Strategy (MTDS) (a prior action of PRSC VII).
These tools enabled the government to improve the quality of its accounts, witnessed by a full
settlement of unfinanced liabilities: arrears. In addition, the MTDS supported the government in
choosing optimal debt management policies and maintaining their commitment with the IMF to
keep domestic debt below 25 percent of GDP.

42.     In order to strengthen incentives for financial discipline, the DPO series also supported
other PFM measures, with a particular emphasis on enhancing audits by Cape Verde’s
independent Court of Auditors. Prior actions supported the restructuring of the Court as well as
timely submission of audits to it and over the period of the DPO series the length of time of
submission of General Accounts of the State accounts to the Court fell (although the number of
audits prepared by the court did not achieve its target). Improvements in the Court of Accounts
were acknowledged by a Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
(PEMFAR) of 2012 and testify to a strengthening of external accountability mechanisms for
financial discipline within government.

43.     In addition to external control, the government also aimed at improving its internal
workings, amongst others by increasing the central government’s oversight of municipalities
through a Municipal Information System (SIM), rationalizing ministries,6 and by improving the
functioning of the civil service through HR reform. Government/ state modernization was a key
focus of the GPRSP II and the DPO supported these priorities with related prior actions in these
areas. The HR reform was centered on a new career system which the government eventually
estimated to be too costly (especially in a time of falling revenue) and thus put on hold—
although it did improve the mobility of civil servants across departments, thus enhancing the
internal flexibility of government. All other reforms went ahead. The most noteworthy
achievement appears to be the inclusion of all Cape Verdean municipalities in the SIM resulting
in a significant increase in timely municipal accounts. Contingent liabilities are a risk to fiscal
sustainability in Cape Verde, and the SIM was an important step toward containing them.




6
 All ministries were to have a directorate providing planning and budgetary oversight (the Direcção Geral de
Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão, DGPOG).



                                                       13
44.     The DPO series also supported reforms which were aimed at raising the efficiency of
government, which was particularly sensible against the backdrop of increasingly scarce public
resources. Prior actions focused on procurement, regarding the legal underpinnings of the
national procurement system as well as the operationalization of the Public Procurement
Directory (DSCP) and the Regulatory Agency for Public Acquisitions (ARAP). Targets on for
procurement indicators were met with respect to staffing and the number of procurement audits.
The target was missed with respect to noncomplying sole-source contracts, the only key indicator
to miss its target under this pillar.

45.      Finally, in the area of ‘good governance’, the DPO series also supported improvements in
monitoring and evaluation (M&E). In this area progress is not fully convincing. Although all
prior actions were met which focused on developing and strengthening Cape Verde’s M&E
system the results are weak. For one, the national statistics institute (INE) remains inadequately
equipped to monitor economic performance (e.g. INE does not produce timely GDP data). In
addition, only 73 percent of the government’s own GPRSP II indicators were monitored. Weak
statistical capacity in Cape Verde is a considerable impediment to the government’s ability to
design effective policies.

46.     Overall, the reforms supported by the DPO have had an impact on the government’s
ability to carry out prudent policies, by providing it with planning and implementation tools as
well as internal and external institutional strengthening. The government’s ability to pursue
effective fiscal policies is a prerequisite for it to facilitate an environment in which the private
sector can thrive. In this light, the area ‘good governance’ generally contributed to the
development objective satisfactorily in spite of shortcomings with regards to M&E and sole-
source contracts. Especially by regional standards, Cape Verde’s governance system has made
impressive strides forward.

Competitiveness (moderately satisfactory)

Key Outcome indicators

  PRSP           Results Framework            Baseline    2010   2011    Latest      Target*   Evaluation
  Policy                                       2009                     Available*
  Area


Financial    Weighted average (by assets)     10.7        10.3          13.4         >12       S
 Sector      of capital adequacy ratio
             (Basel 1) of the entire system
             in %.
Business     Average number of years to       NA          NA     NA     NA           ≤2        Not rated
Climate      close a business.
             Recovery rate by claimants       NA          NA     NA     NA           40.0      Not rated
             (creditors, employees, govt.)
             from insolvent firms (cents
             per dollar owed)
*2012 unless stated otherwise
See Appendix 3 for all indicators.



                                                         14
47.     The area ‘competitiveness’ is arguably the one most closely related to private sector-led
growth. Results in this area are mixed for different reasons. Overall, most indicators suggest that
targets were achieved, where data is available (assessments of all indicators can be found in
Appendix), but two of the three key indicators cannot be rated. In a number of cases attribution is
not clear. While performance on all available indicators was good, due to attribution issues the
assessment for this policy area is only moderately satisfactory.

48.     The most successful policy in this cluster relates to a reduction in corporate tax, which
was supported by a prior action in PRSC V and implemented in 2010. This move reduced the
financial burden for companies, making it more attractive for investors. In particular the
implementation in 2010 seemed sensible as stimulus for an economy emerging from the 2009
recession. Similarly useful were streamlining procedures with respect to business registration and
closing supported by the DPO series. These included the operationalization of the one-stop shop
(the House of Citizens), a bankruptcy law, and the switch from ad-valorem to fixed rates for real
estate and commercial registration duties. As a result, the number of days to open a business and
the cost of property registration more than halved. The new bankruptcy laws have created a more
favorable environment for closing a business (which by backward induction makes it more
favorable to take the risk of starting a business). They are difficult to measure in the case of Cape
Verde because no insolvent Cape Verdean firms met the criteria for inclusion in the Doing
Business surveys which track indicators like time to close a business and recovery rates. Given
the reforms, Cape Verde climbed from 142nd in 2010 to 121st place in 2013 in the Doing
Business rankings. There is statistical evidence demonstrating that the Doing Business rankings
and their individual components are correlated with stronger economic growth.7 

49.     Attribution is not clear with respect to policy actions supporting trade/FDI and financial
sector stability. Cape Verde became of member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in
2007. In accordance with WTO rules the country had to adopt compatible pieces of legislation.
These included a customs code, an investment code, and an ecological tax, all three supported by
prior actions by the DPO series. The indicators measuring the impact of these reforms are a trade
openness indicator (imports + exports as a percentage of GDP) and FDI as a percentage of GDP.
Attribution is difficult to establish for the following reasons. 1) The main dynamics in the
indicators result from the economic crisis and both trade and FDI were suppressed due to weak
economic activity in Europe, thus obscuring the effect of domestic legislation on these variables.
2) While FDI missed its target consistently, in December 2012 FDI contracts were signed for
over 600 million euros. This amounts to 36 percent of GDP.8 The new investment code, which
rationalizes tax incentives for foreign investors—coming into effect in January 2013—may have
played a major, but unanticipated role. It appears likely that planned projects were anticipated in
order benefit from the old tax incentive system. The longer-term effect on FDI is uncertain.

50.     With regards to financial sector stability, the indicator measuring the impact of the DPO’s
prior action is the capital adequacy ratio. This ratio has increased and even exceeded its target


7
   E.g. Djankov et al. (2006) ‘Regulation and Growth’ Economics Letters 92(3)395-401; Hanusch (2012) ‘The Doing
Business Indicators, Economic Growth, and Regulatory Reform’ Policy Research Working Paper 6176. 
8
   This is based on data provided by the IMF which are currently under revision by INE. 



                                                      15
value. However, while the law aimed at enhancing the supervisory capacity of the central bank
was adopted by the central bank board and referred to the council of ministers it has not yet been
approved by parliament. Higher solvency in the banking sector is thus unlikely to have been a
consequence of reforms supported by the DPO series. It is important to note that the prior action
only focused on drafting a law, adopting it by the board of the central bank and submitting it to
the council of ministers—however, as noted above, this indicator did not account for the time lag
that could be expected between the submission of the law to the council of ministers and the
passing by parliament.


Infrastructure (moderately unsatisfactory)

Key Outcome indicators

 PRSP Policy       Results Framework         Base                        Latest       Target*       Evalu-
    Area                                     - line   2010       2011   Available*                  ation
                                             2009

   Energy         Debt service coverage      0.75     1                               1.1       Not rated
                  ratio of ELECTRA.
                  Technical and non          28       26.1       27     28.7          <25       U
                  technical losses as % of
                  MGW generation.
  Transport       Direct operating costs,    7.67     NA         7.91   7.91 (2011)   2.85      U
(air transport excluding fuel, per                                                    (2011)
  company)        passenger seat-
                  kilometer (CVE)
                  Unit revenues as           606      720        783    783 (2011)    779       S
                  measured by passenger                                               (2011)
                  seat-kilometer (CVE)
*2012 unless stated otherwise
See Appendix 3 for all indicators.

51.     In the area of infrastructure the DPO series focused on supporting reform in land
management, the energy sector, and aviation. Progress on land management was moderately
unsatisfactory. The government had initially moved with great resolve on this issue, passing a
Cadaster Law (supported by a prior action in PRSC V) and beginning to operationalize it.
However, both in terms of approved (‘homologated’) regional plans for territorial organization
(EROT) and approved municipal development plans (PDMs) outputs were delivered more
slowly than expected.

52.     Of the indicators available, satisfactory and unsatisfactory indicators are holding the
balance (Appendix 3). However, looking at the key indicators, an overall rating of moderately
unsatisfactory is appropriate for this component. In spite of this rating it is important to
acknowledge progress toward improving the SOEs ELECTRA (the national utility) and TACV
(the national airline) against considerable constraints. These two companies represent two of the
largest Cape Verdean SOEs yet they have been dysfunctional and loss-making. The Bank heavily
focused on supporting the government in reforming these companies as they were considered
key to removing key binding constraints in infrastructure (energy and transport) and to


                                                            16
improving fiscal sustainability (by reducing contingent liabilities for the central government).
The Bank pooled its resources, focusing on ELECTRA and SOEs through PRSC V-VII but also
investment lending operations and TA.

53.     During a recent mission (April 8-12, 2013), the ICRR team learned that reforms are
finally beginning to yield results.9 In ELECTRA, the key sources of financial weakness of the
company were that 1) cost recovery was hampered as input prices could not be passed on to
consumers through tariff adjustments, 2) commercial losses were high due to high non-payment
rates, and 3) energy theft was widespread. In 2013, ELECTRA successfully managed to start
applying tariff adjustments (the board is now setting tariffs every three months) and started to
collect fees for public lighting, thus entering a more sustainable path of cost recovery. In
addition, changes in the legal environment of November 2012 enabled ELECTRA to suspend
electricity accounts of defaulting customers sooner, thus reducing energy loss. According to
information gathered during the Bank’s last budget support mission of May 2013, ELECTRA’s
deficit has decreased by 20 percent between 2012 and 2011 and revenue for the first quarter of
2013 was up by 18 percent.  

54.     In addition, the generation of renewable energy has been increasing gradually (exceeding
the DPO targets) and a new plant, Palmarejo Plant on the island of Santiago, started operating in
March 2013, thus raising capacity for electricity generation. These developments have resulted in
a reduction of electricity blackouts by more than 50 percent over the previous year. Reform of
the energy sector was challenging, especially where it increased costs for consumers in the midst
of an economic downturn. Although ELECTRA is likely to require another capitalization by the
central government, the fact that the reforms are now bearing fruit is putting the company on a
more sustainable trajectory.

55.     With regards to TACV, reforms have also been progressing, although somewhat more
modestly than in ELECTRA—especially in the early years of the PRSC series progress was
almost nil. A new board of directors was appointed in 2012 and has since re-ignited the reform
agenda. Initially, the reform agenda started with what can be termed ‘housekeeping activities’,
including the systematic compilation of company data and the production of financial statements.
In the short time the new board has been in place, considerable progress was made in a number
of other areas: non-profitable routes have been eliminated, a fuel policy is in place, tickets can be
purchased online, and delays have been considerably reduced. The board is also undertaking
steps toward a partial privatization, unbundling TACV’s ground and maintenance services; it is
renegotiating co-share agreements, exploring new partnership agreements, and devising plans to
improve its HR policy (including excessive staff benefits) and the rationalization of the fleet. In
2012, TACV still required a capitalization by the central government of an amount equivalent to
1.4 percent of GDP. However, this is largely the legacy of highly unfavorable financing terms for
leased planes, entered into by the previous board. Unit revenues as measured by passenger-seat
kilometer, one of the indicators of the series for which data are available, have been increasing,
suggesting that the company is becoming less unprofitable. TACV, too, appears to enter a more



9
     The results are reflected in a macroeconomic assessment prepared after the mission. 



                                                            17
sustainable trajectory (although the final judgment is still out, depending on sustained
commitment to reform).

Human Capital Enhancement (moderately unsatisfactory)

56.    PRSC VII included a prior action on ‘human capital enhancements.’ 10 Generally,
progress in this area was moderately unsatisfactory. The accreditation of training institutions
progressed slowly but eventually met its target. However, many fewer students than expected
were trained and training is the main output of the TVET component. Largely, these shortfalls
are due to insufficient funding, especially as some of the projects in Technical Vocational
Education and Training (TVET) unsustainably relied on donor funding.

Social Cohesion (satisfactory)

57.     Although no prior action of the DPO series supported the area ‘social cohesion’, the
series tracked relevant indicators, thus monitoring the government’s commitment to
implementing this element of its GPRSP II. Reports on social cohesion were published, as
targeted in the indicator matrix. As this is the only indicator and it was met, this area is rated
satisfactory.11 

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

58.     The overall rating of ‘moderately satisfactory’ is based on the continuing relevance of the
key development objective of private sector-led growth at present, the moderately satisfactory
design and implementation of the series, as well as the significant progress made in a number of
areas supporting the objective. Progress on promoting good governance has been satisfactory.
Strengthening the administrative capacity and transparency of the government is crucial for a
country whose reliance on donors is diminishing and which faces a high debt burden it will have
to manage. Similarly, reforms at improving the investment climate, at the micro-level, have been
successful—although attribution of the outcomes is at times difficult, resulting in a rating of
moderately satisfactory. At both levels, reforms have contributed to improving the environment
for doing business. The limited actions in the area of human capital were not successful in
increasing the number of students.

59.     Arguably the biggest risks were taken in the area of infrastructure where inertia and
political economy constraints (such as raising tariffs) rendered success uncertain. Jointly, due to
underperformance of ELECTRA and TACV with respect to the set targets (despite considerable
progress in terms of reforms and cautious signs that the reforms are yielding returns) and the less
impressive progress on land management this area was rated moderately unsatisfactory.


10
    Although the Bank included one prior action in this area, other members of the Budget Support Group
took the lead in this area. 
11
    This pillar was only included in PRSC V.



                                                   18
3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.      The impact on institutions of the PRSC V-VII series was considerable. In fact,
institutional strengthening was at the core of the operation. Some of the key results include a
stronger Court of Auditors, stronger procurement systems, more efficiently organized and
supervised ministries and municipalities, a stronger land management system, more functional
SOEs in energy and aviation, and a one-stop shop for businesses. Several new laws are in place,
supported by the DPO series, including the customs and investment codes and the Cadaster Law,
all supported by prior actions. Finally, the series was accompanied by training provided through
TA and workshops, especially in the PFM area, which has built capacity within the
administration.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

None.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

None.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

61.      Many of the reforms the DPO series supported are institutional. Especially laws and new
institutions are unlikely to be easily reversed. Many of the achievements of the DPO series may
be ‘locked in’ for the near future. The government of Cape Verde also has a reputation for good
policy management and, as a solid democracy with an intact social contract, policy
improvements are likely to be shielded in the future. However, a number of risks exist to
sustaining the development outcome, both externally and internally.

62.     Macroeconomic risks. Cape Verde’s economic performance is highly dependent on
Europe’s economic performance. As the crisis in the Eurozone still has not abated, risks to
growth in Cape Verde remain elevated. Low growth is not only troublesome for business; it also
threatens the sustainability of the country’s high public debt burden. INE, the national statistics
institute is currently revising its GDP figures and data are only available up to 2010. Proxies for
GDP (such as growth in income tax revenue and growth in the Eurozone) in 2011 and 2012
suggest that the economy has entered a lower growth path meaning that debt sustainability
analyses have been optimistic. Future financing is uncertain as donors are winding down
concessional financial support and Cape Verde does not yet have access to international bond



                                                19
markets. Weak growth implies that amortizing and rolling over the public debt will become more
challenging, threatening economic stability—in particular against the backdrop of a high public
debt burden, above 80 percent of GDP. A high fiscal deficit in 2013 (11% of GDP) means that
the debt will continue to grow in the short term and upward pressure on interest rates will
remain. This is arguably the greatest threat to sustaining the development objective of private
sector-led growth.12 The new MTDS will help the government in designing appropriate debt
management policies, but fiscal consolidation will be critical.

63.     Political risks. Reforms have advanced considerably over the course of the DPO series.
However, especially with respect to SOEs, the results are only now becoming visible and will
need further political resolve to make the reforms sustainable. ELECTRA will need continuing
political backing to sustain its new culture of cost recovery—even if this results in unpopular,
higher tariffs. TACV has to continue its ambitious agenda, including progress on partial
privatization. These reforms are difficult and require strong and enduring political backing—
although the Ministry of Infrastructure has signaled strong support for reform of TACV. In other
areas, laws that are still at a draft stage have to be passed by parliament and operationalized. This
applies in particular to the basic financial law, providing the central bank with stronger
supervisory power. Experience suggests that the law will eventually be passed. However, given
the macroeconomic risks, it will be important to pass it soon for it to help support private sector-
led growth effectively.

64.     Regional stability. The West African region is politically fragile. In particular the
narcotics trade in Guinea-Bissau and other countries is undermining stability in the region. So far
Cape Verde has remained relatively isolated from such developments on the continent, although
the Cape Verdean authorities were involved in high-level international arrests in relation to
illegal drugs. There is a low risk that the destabilizing forces from the continent may undermine
the stability that Cape Verde has been enjoying.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.    Quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. The design of the PRSC V-VII series is
aligned with government development objectives entrenched in its GPRSP II. Also the reform
program underpinning each series is rooted in consultations with other aid agencies, several
Bank analytical pieces of work (appendix 9) as well as lessons learned from previous PRSCs.
The program development objectives and prior actions/ triggers of the PRSC series were
adequate, specific and time-sensitive as well as well aligned with the Bank’s Country Partnership
Strategy.

12
     See the debt sustainability analysis in the 2013 Country Economic Memorandum for Cape Verde.



                                                   20
66.    The ‘moderate’ in the assessment is mainly due to the weakness of the indicators. As
explained above, there were several weaknesses, including data coverage, attribution, realism,
amongst others. These were the main shortcomings in the design of the operation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.      The PRSC series ensured sustained policy dialogue in the country by supporting broader
structural reforms in public financial management and other key sectors such as transport and
energy. The strong commitment of the Bank’s task team backed by management support
facilitated the supervision phase of the operations. The supervision of the PRSCs was through
the donor budget support group’s biannual missions which focused on the monitoring of triggers
and brought together experts from the country’s priority sectors. The missions were central to the
evaluation of progress on the joint matrix, facilitated coordination and built consensus among
donors. Thus, the Bank’s team was able to make informed decisions on the choice of prior
actions and indicators during the preparation of subsequent operations. Indeed, the quality of the
results matrix evidently improved in the last operation in the series.

68.    The M&E arrangements of the PRSCs series drew largely on the M&E system of the
DNP. The secretariat of the Budget Support Group (BSG) also produced standardized aide-
memoires under the reporting requirements of the BSG framework. Moreover, as an active
member of the BSG, the Bank played a key role in the harmonization of the aid architecture
thereby strengthening the effectiveness of budget support operations in the country. The
‘moderate’ in the assessment is due to the lack/ low quality of ISRs, which are an important
monitoring tool.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.    Apart from the assessments above, it should be noted that the increase of the financing
volume under PRSC VII was appropriate and responded well to the country’s increasing
vulnerability as international reserves fell. Jointly with the ratings for ensuring quality and entry
and quality of supervision, this results in an overall rating of moderately satisfactory.  
 
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: See overall borrower performance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: See overall borrower performance (government and implementing agency are
equivalent)




                                                 21
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.     Overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Under the lead of the
Ministry of Finance, the government participated in the design, implementation and monitoring
of the PRSC series. In particular, the DNP at the Ministry of Finance was responsible for the
overall implementation of the operations and for reporting on progress. Thus the Bank had a
readily available and committed interlocutor from the government’s side. The government’s
development strategy, GPRSP II, was rooted in a number of important strategic documents,
including the current administrative Government Program, the Great Options of the Plan and the
Economic Transformation Strategy (ETS) adopted in 2003. The good substance of the GPRSP II
therefore provided a strong starting point for the preparation the PRSC V-VII. Furthermore, the
government demonstrated ownership and strong commitment by formulating and approving
policies establishing the adequate policy environment for the success of the PRSC operations.
However, progress was slow in certain areas, most notably the passing of the basic financial law,
which is critical in a time of economic crisis. Also weaknesses in macroeconomic management
led to a delay in the approval of PRSCVII to the following fiscal year. Concerns over the levels
of the fiscal deficit and the national debt remained in 2013. This results in a rating of moderately
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

71.     Quality of indicators. One key lesson that can be learned from this PRSC series is the
importance of the need for good indicators to evaluate the success of the operation. Indicator data
have to be available and attributable to government actions—and indicators should not simply
restate prior actions. One particular problem with development policy lending is that institutional
reform takes time to show effects. Thus, finding indicators that capture results shortly after the
completion of the operation is challenging. However, efforts should be made to identify
attributable consequence of these actions. Investing more time and effort in designing strong
PRSP indicators with the government would help improve the quality of indicators.

72.     M&E systems. The operation has also shown the need for strong M&E systems. Even if
indicators are attributable but data are not available, necessary, evidence-based fine-tuning
during the operation as well as a thorough and fair evaluation upon completion of the series is
impossible. Investing in country M&E capacity, where requires, is crucial.

73.     Donor harmonization. Another lesson is that donor harmonization can be achieved
without surrendering flexibility for individual institutions’ development assessments. In Cape
Verde, the Budget Support Group had a common donor matrix, bundling clout in policy areas
considered key by all development partners (e.g. PFM reform). In other areas, donors maintained
flexibility and could focus on their specific areas of expertise (e.g. the Portuguese focusing on
housing and the Bank on SOEs). Within the Bank, this approach has found recognition and can
be recommended to other country units.




                                                22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

74.    The government, represented by the DNP, provided comments on the ICRR and PRSC
V-VII more broadly; the comments can be found in Appendix 7. In summary, the government
highlighted the importance of the PRSC series in providing financing in a difficult
macroeconomic environment in the aftermath of the global financial crisis allowing the
government to focus on its ambitious investment program.

75.   Apart from the financing element, the government expressed appreciation for the role the
Bank played in the BSG which formed the primary outlet for policy dialogue between the
government and development partners.

76.    Finally, the government partially attributes progress on some key reforms to the policies
supported by PRSC V-VII and associated analytical work and technical assistance. These areas
are: 1) Public Finance Management, including tools for debt management, tax policy and
administration, and SOE control; 2) State modernization, especially procurement; 3)
Competitiveness, highlighting the investment code and tax benefits code; 4) improvements in
SOE performance. In line with the assessment of this ICRR, the government acknowledges that
reforms under the infrastructure pillar were the most cumbersome but vital to improve financial
soundness of the SOEs and the public finances in general.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A.




                                              23
                                                     Annex 1: Prior actions and triggers across the series

PRSC V                                                                       PRSC VI                                            PRSC VII                                          Notes

PRSP Policy     Program       Actions for   Actions for      Actions for     PRSC V           PRSC VI            PRSC VII       PRSC V          PRSC VI            PRSC VII
Area            Objectives    PRSC V        PRSC VI          PRSC VII




                              2009          2010             2011            2009             2010               2011           2009            2010               2011

Good Governance
Macroecono      Reduce and    Reduction     Reduction of                     Completed        The complete       1. The         Completed       The complete       The issuance   No major
mic Stability   control       of            arrears to                       the              clearance of       issuance of    the             clearance of       of the         changes.
                Government    outstanding   zero.                            implementat      the                the Action     implementat     the government     Medium-        Added new
                liabilities   public                                         ion of the       government         Plan for the   ion of the      arrears            Term Debt      trigger on
                including     arrears (as                                    second           arrears            enhancemen     second          assumed in         Strategy       MTDS in
                contingent    measured in                                    phase of the     assumed in         t of the       phase of the    2005 except        (MTDS) for     PRSC VI.
                ones.         2005) to                                       2005 plan        2005 except        government’    2005 plan       the arrears with   2012-15 by
                              16% of                                         for the          the arrears        s Debt         for the         the municipal      the Ministry
                              original                                       clearance of     with the           Management     clearance of    chambers           of Finance
                              stock.                                         public           municipal          System and     public          which will be      and
                                                                             arrears as       chambers           the Medium-    arrears as      setting off with   Planning.
                                                                             evidenced        which will be      Term Debt      evidenced       the debts owed
                                                                             by the           setting off with   Strategy       by the          by these
                                                                             reduction of     the debts owed     (MTDS) for     reduction of    municipal
                                                                             outstanding      by these           2012-15 by     outstanding     governments
                                                                             public           municipal          the Ministry   public          with the
                                                                             arrears to 16    governments        of Finance.    arrears to 16   government.
                                                                             percent of       with the                          percent of
                                                                             the original     government.                       the original
                                                                             stock.                                             stock.
                                            Completion       Satisfactory                                                                                                         Relegated to
                                            of time-bound    implementatio                                                                                                        energy under
                                            action plan to   n of the plan                                                                                                        infrastructure
                                            clear arrears    to clear                                                                                                             (with
                                            of ELECTRA       arrears of                                                                                                           improved
                                            to suppliers     ELECTRA.                                                                                                             wording)
                                            within 4 years
                                            maximum.




                                                                                             24
PFM:       Improve         Audit of: (i)   Audit of: (i)    Audit of (i)     Submitted       The                Completion     Submitted      The                The             Changed:
External   timeliness of   State           2007 and         2009 State       to its          completion of      of a           to its         completion of      submission      PRSC VI
Controls   audits of       General         2008 State       Accounts and     National        the audit of the   PEMFAR         National       the audit of the   of the State    became less
           State           Accounts        Accounts         (ii) accounts    Assembly        state accounts     exercise and   Assembly       state accounts     General         ambitious
           accounts by     for 2006 and    and (ii)         of new           the audited:    for 2007 by        adoption of    the audited:   for 2007 by the    Accounts of     changed
           Tribunal das    (ii) accounts   accounts of      municipalities   (a) State       the Court of       a reform       (a) State      Court of           2010 by the     trigger for
           Contas and      of key          new              and embassies    General         Accounts to        agenda on      General        Accounts to        government      PRSC VII to
           enhance         municipaliti    municipalities   submitted to     Accounts        the National       Public         Accounts       the National       to the          PEMFAR
           quality of      es and          , embassies      Parliament.      for the year    Assembly,          Financial      for the year   Assembly,          Parliament      issues --
           audits          embassies       and institutes                    2006; and       including          Management     2006; and      including          and the         PRSC VII
                           submitted to    submitted to                      (b) accounts    audits of the      based on the   (b) accounts   audits of the      adoption of     dropped
                           Parliament.     Parliament.                       of key          accounts of 13     PEMFAR.        of key         accounts of 13     the new         PEMFAR
                                                                             municipaliti    municipalities,                   municipaliti   municipalities,    budget          trigger due to
                                                                             es and          5 embassies                       es and         5 embassies        classificatio   donors
                                                                             embassies.      and 3                             embassies.     and 3              n system.       delaying
                                                                                             institutes, and                                  institutes, and                    PEMFAR.
                                                                                             the                                              the
                                                                                             government’s                                     government’s
                                                                                             submission by                                    submission by
                                                                                             the Council of                                   the Council of
                                                                                             Ministers to                                     Ministers to
                                                                                             Parliament of                                    Parliament of
                                                                                             the state                                        the state
                                                                                             accounts for                                     accounts for
                                                                                             2008 and                                         2008 and 2009.
                                                                                             2009.

                           Submit to                                                                                                                                             Benchmark
                           the                                                                                                                                                   only.
                           Parliament
                           the project
                           of Law on
                           the
                           functioning
                           of the
                           tribunal of
                           account.




                                                                                            25
Procure-     Improve         Approval by    The new         Compliance      Approved,      The full          Further        Approved,     The full           Further         PRSC VI
ment         transparency    Council of     Public          reviews of      through its    operationalizat   strengthenin   through its   operationalizati   strengthenin    same with
             and             Ministers of   Procurement     procurement     Council of     ion of the        g of the       Council of    on of the          g of the        more detail;
             efficiency of   new            Directorate     procedures      Ministers      Public            government     Ministers     Public             government      introduced
             public          regulations    for             for all line    the            Procurement       procurement    the           Procurement        procurement     new trigger
             procurement     accompanyi     controlling     ministries.     regulations    Directorate       system as      regulations   Directorate        system as       for PRSC VII
             procedures.     ng the new     UGAs’                           of the new     (DSCP)            demonstrate    of the new    (DSCP)             demonstrate     which was
                             Public         activities is                   Public         according to:     d by: the      Public        according to:      d by: the       refined as a
                             Procurement    operational                     Procurement    (a) the           completion     Procurement   (a) the            fulfillment     prior action
                             Law.           within the                      Law            adoption of the   of the new     Law           adoption of the    of the ARAP     under PRSC
                                            DGPE.                                          decree by the     procurement                  decree by the      management      VII.
                                                                                           Council of        website and                  Council of         directorate,
                                                                                           Ministers         the                          Ministers          the
                                                                                           establishing it   introduction                 establishing it    establishmen
                                                                                           and defining      of the                       and defining its   t of the
                                                                                           its role; and     electronic                   role; and (b)      Consultative
                                                                                           (b) the           reverse                      the issuance of    Council and
                                                                                           issuance of its   auction in                   its action plan    its Conflict
                                                                                           action plan for   government                   for 2010 by the    Resolution
                                                                                           2010 by the       purchases.                   General            Committee
                                                                                           General                                        Directorate of     of ARAP
                                                                                           Directorate of                                 Patrimony and      and the
                                                                                           Patrimony and                                  Public             recruitment
                                                                                           Public                                         Procurement        of the staff
                                                                                           Procurement                                    (DGPCP).           for the audit
                                                                                           (DGPCP).                                                          and policy
                                                                                                                                                             departments
                                                                                                                                                             at ARAP.
Government   Rationalize     At least 5     Implementati    Implementati                                                                                                     Benchmarks
Moderni-     State           ministries     on of           on of                                                                                                            only.
zation       structures      restructured   restructuring   restructuring
             for a cost      according to   recommendati    recommendati
             efficient       plan.          ons             ons
             Government                     continued.      continued.
             .




                                                                                          26
Strengthen      At least 11    At least 15      17               Completed       The               Completed      The               PRSC VI
decentralizat   municipaliti   municipalities   municipalities   the             enhancement       the            enhancement       took
ion and         es use         use SIM.         use SIM.         implementat     of the            implementat    of the            recommende
municipal       Municipal                                        ion of SIM      government’s      ion of SIM     government’s      d trigger with
management      Information                                      in 11 of the    human             in 11 of the   human             less ambition
capacity.       System                                           Recipient’s     resources         Recipient’s    resources         and added a
                (SIM).                                           municipaliti    management        municipaliti   management        focus on HR,
                                                                 es              system as         es             system as         picking up
                                                                                 demonstrated                     demonstrated      mobility
                                                                                 by the                           by the adoption   action of
                                                                                 adoption by                      by the Council    PRSC V (see
                                                                                 the Council of                   of Ministers of   below).
                                                                                 Ministers of                     the related       PCSS not
                                                                                 the related                      decree            approved
                                                                                 decree                           allowing for      because had
                                                                                 allowing for                     the mobile        fiscal
                                                                                 the mobile                       placement of      implications.
                                                                                 placement of                     civil servants.
                                                                                 civil servants.
Promote         Decree on      New Career       Senior career                                                                       See above.
merit based     mobility       and Salary       service
civil service   approved by    System           established.
and broaden     Council of     (PCCS)
mobility        Ministers.     approved by
options                        Council of
within and                     Ministers.
outside
Government
.




                                                                                27
Statistics   Establish the   Promulgatio   Completion    Statistical    Approved,      Progress on        The             Approved,     Progress on the     The              No major
and M&E      new national    n of          of the        Action Plan    through its    the                satisfactory    through its   institutionalizat   satisfactory     changes.
             statistical     Statistical   platform      implemented.   National       institutionaliza   implementat     National      ion and             implementat
             system and      Law.          linking INE                  Assembly,      tion and           ion of the      Assembly,     implementatio       ion of the
             implement                     data and                     the            implementatio      Statistical     the           n of the M&E        Statistical
             the                           National                     Statistical    n of the M&E       Agenda as       Statistical   system as           Agenda as
             statistical                   M&E system.                  Law            system as          evidenced       Law           evidenced by:       evidenced
             action plan                                                               evidenced by:      by: (a) the                   (a) the             by the
             (2007-                                                                    (a) the            completion                    adoption of the     approval of
             2010).                                                                    adoption of the    of the                        resolution by       the relevant
                                                                                       resolution by      technology                    the Countries       INE statutes
                                                                                       the Countries      and                           of Ministers        and the
                                                                                       of Ministers       institutional                 creating the        national
                                                                                       creating the       capacity                      Implementatio       system of
                                                                                       Implementatio      components                    n Committee         statistics and
                                                                                       n Committee        and (b) the                   for the             the passage
                                                                                       for the            update of the                 National M&E        of all
                                                                                       National M&E       Statistical                   System              necessary
                                                                                       System             Agenda for                    (Commissão de       complement
                                                                                       (Commissão         2011-2014.                    Operacionaliza      ary
                                                                                       de                                               ção do Sistema      legislation.
                                                                                       Operacionaliza                                   de Seguimento
                                                                                       ção do Sistema                                   e Avaliação,
                                                                                       de Seguimento                                    COSiSA); (b)
                                                                                       e Avaliação,                                     the completion
                                                                                       COSiSA); (b)                                     of the platform
                                                                                       the completion                                   linking the
                                                                                       of the platform                                  M&E system
                                                                                       linking the                                      to the INE; (c)
                                                                                       M&E system                                       the inclusion in
                                                                                       to the INE; (c)                                  the Integrated
                                                                                       the inclusion                                    Financial
                                                                                       in the                                           Management
                                                                                       Integrated                                       System for the
                                                                                       Financial                                        government
                                                                                       Management                                       budget of the
                                                                                       System for the                                   M&E
                                                                                       government                                       indicators for
                                                                                       budget of the                                    the government
                                                                                       M&E                                              programs in
                                                                                       indicators for                                   education,
                                                                                       the                                              health,
                                                                                       government                                       agriculture and
                                                                                       programs in                                      infrastructure;
                                                                                       education,                                       and (d) the
                                                                                       health,                                          issuance by the




                                                                                      28
                                                                                  agriculture and                   Ministry of
                                                                                  infrastructure;                   Finance of the
                                                                                  and (d) the                       Scope of
                                                                                  issuance by the                   Vision of the
                                                                                  Ministry of                       M&E
                                                                                  Finance of the                    government
                                                                                  Scope of                          system.
                                                                                  Vision of the
                                                                                  M&E
                                                                                  government
                                                                                  system.




               Implement       All 2008        80% of all       90% of all                                                                          dropped in
               the new         projects and    active           active                                                                              PRSC VI and
               national        programs’       projects and     projects &                                                                          VII because
               M&E             output          programs’        programs                                                                            the system
               system.         indicators      output           outputs and                                                                         was already
                               integrated in   indicators       outcome                                                                             fully
                               the database    integrated and   indicators                                                                          operational.
                               of the          tracked in the   integrated and
                               national        database of      tracked in the
                               M&E             the national     database of
                               system.         M&E system.      the national
                                                                M&E system.
Human cpaital enhancement
Vocational     To improve      Ministerial     New              Satisfactory                        The                              The            PRSC VI
Training       the             decision to     operating        implementatio                       satisfactory                     satisfactory   took trigger
               qualification   re-activate     procedures       n of the                            implementat                      implementat    for PRSC VII
               of workforce    and improve     adopted for      TVET Action                         ion of the                       ion of the     from PRSC
               to meet         the TSF.        the TSF.         Plan, with                          TVET                             TVET           V and added
               labor market                                     private sector                      Action Plan                      Action Plan    indicative
               demand.                                          participation.                      for 2010 as                      for 2010 as    element from
                                                                                                    evidenced                        evidenced      actions for
                                                                                                    by: (a) the                      by: (a) the    previous
                                                                                                    adoption of                      adoption of    years.
                                                                                                    a new decree                     a new decree
                                                                                                    defining the                     defining the
                                                                                                    restructuring                    statutes of
                                                                                                    of the                           the




                                                                                 29
     Employment      Employment
     Centers; (b)    and
     the             Professional
     establishmen    Training
     t of an         Institute and
     operational     the
     Coordinatin     restructuring
     g Unit for      of the
     the National    Employment
     System of       Centers; (b)
     Qualificatio    the
     ns; (c) the     establishmen
     adoption of     t of an
     new             operational
     operating       Coordinatin
     procedures      g Unit for
     by TSF; and     the National
     (d) the         System of
     preparation     Qualificatio
     of an           ns; (c) the
     Integrated      adoption of
     Policy Letter   new
     for             operating
     Technical,      procedures
     Educational     by TSF; and
     and             (d)
     Vocational      accreditation
     Training.       of four
                     centers of
                     vocational
                     training in
                     2011.




30
Competitiveness
Trade             Better          Satisfactory   Revised                         Completed           The            Completed      The            The
                  integration     progress in    Investment                      the initial         adoption of    the initial    adoption of    investment
                  of Cape         the            code                            phase of            the            phase of       the            code actions
                  Verde in        implementat    consistent                      implementat         investment     implementat    investment     were delayed
                  international   ion of the     with WTO                        ion of the          code by the    ion of the     code by the    because they
                  trade.          action plan    agreement in                    Recipient’s         Council of     Recipient’s    Council of     had tax
                                  to adapt       draft.                          action plan         Ministers,     action plan    Ministers,     implications
                                  procedures                                     which will          including      which will     consistent     which were
                                  and                                            adjust the          regulations    adjust the     with WTO       dealt with
                                  legislation                                    Recipient’s         for fiscal     Recipient’s    norms.         simulataneou
                                  to WTO                                         procedures          incentives     procedures                    sly.
                                  rules as                                       and                 consistent     and
                                  evidenced                                      legislation         with WTO       legislation
                                  by: i)                                         on trade to         norms.         on trade to
                                  approval of                                    those of                           those of
                                  the                                            WTO rules                          WTO rules
                                  Ecological                                     as                                 as
                                  Tax bill by                                    evidenced                          evidenced
                                  the Council                                    by: i)                             by: i)
                                  of                                             approval of                        approval of
                                  Ministers;                                     the                                the
                                  and ii)                                        Ecological                         Ecological
                                  Approval by                                    Tax bill by                        Tax bill by
                                  Council of                                     the Council                        the Council
                                  Ministers of                                   of                                 of
                                  customs                                        Ministers;                         Ministers;
                                  code                                           and ii)                            and ii)
                                  consistent                                     approval by                        approval by
                                  with the                                       Council of                         Council of
                                  WTO                                            Ministers of                       Ministers of
                                  agreement.                                     the draft-                         the draft-
                                                                                 law for the                        law for the
                                                                                 customs                            customs
                                                                                 code                               code
                                                                                 consistent                         consistent
                                                                                 with the                           with the
                                                                                 WTO                                WTO
                                                                                 agreement.                         agreement.
                                                                Preparation of                       The                           The            No major
                                                                a new draft                          adoption of                   adoption of    chnages.
                                                                law on                               the new                       the new
                                                                intellectual                         intellectual                  intellectual
                                                                property.                            property law                  property law
                                                                                                     by the                        by the
                                                                                                     Council of                    Council of




                                                                                                31
                                                                                               Ministers.                   Ministers.
Tax System   Improvemen     Across the                    Draft law       Approved             See the      Approved        See the      See above
             t in the       board                         revising tax    through its          above        through its     above        comment on
             investment     reduction in                  incentives      Council of           Trigger      Council of      Trigger      interrelations
             climate        corporate                     submitted to    Ministers,           regarding    Ministers,      regarding    hip between
             through tax    taxes for                     Council of      the                  the          the             the          tax code and
             reduction      businesses                    Ministers for   reduction in         investment   reduction in    investment   investment
             and overhaul   approved by                   approval.       corporate            code.        corporate       code.        code.
             of tax         Council of                                    tax rates for                     tax rates for
             incentives.    Ministers.                                    businesses                        businesses

Financial    Strengthen     2007            Bank          IFRS                                                                           IFRS
Sector       stability.     Microfinanc     supervision   accounting                                                                     dropped
                            e Law           legal         norms applied                                                                  because it
                            revised to      framework     to banks and                                                                   was already
                            limit deposit   revised to    insurance                                                                      in place.
                            taking.         give BCV      companies.                                                                     PRSC VI
                                            more                                                                                         indicators
                                            authority.                                                                                   merged (new
                                                                                                                                         banking law
                                                                                                                                         for onshore
                                                                                                                                         and offshore
                                                                                                                                         and more
                                                                                                                                         authority to
                                                                                                                                         BCV).
                                                                                                                                         Microfinance
                                                                                                                                         benchmark
                                                                                                                                         only.




                                                                                          32
                         Reduction      IFI law                        Reduced         Adoption of                       Reduced        Adoption of                      See above.
                         of exposure    revised to                     exposure of     the draft                         exposure of    the draft
                         of offshore    align its                      off-shore       banking law                       off-shore      banking law by
                         banking        regulatory                     banking as      by the Central                    banking as     the Central
                         with the       regime with                    shown by        Bank board                        shown by       Bank board
                         closure of a   onshore                        the closure     and its                           the closure    and its
                         noncomplia     system.                        of a            submission to                     of a           submission to
                         nt offshore                                   noncomplia      the Council of                    noncomplia     the Council of
                         institution.                                  nt offshore     Ministers,                        nt offshore    Ministers,
                                                                       institution.    thereby                           institution.   thereby
                                                                                       strengthening                                    strengthening
                                                                                       the Central                                      the Central
                                                                                       Bank’s                                           Bank’s
                                                                                       supervisory                                      supervisory
                                                                                       authority and                                    authority and
                                                                                       unifying the                                     unifying the
                                                                                       legislation                                      legislation
                                                                                       regarding                                        regarding
                                                                                       onshore and                                      onshore and
                                                                                       offshore                                         offshore
                                                                                       banking                                          banking
                                                                                       activities.                                      activities.
Business   Improve       House of       New            Implementati                    Improvements      The                            Improvements      The             PRSC VI
Climate    regulatory    Citizen        bankruptcy     on of actions                   in the business   adoption by                    in the business   adoption by    introduces
           environemt.   operational    law drafted.   to lower the                    climate as        the Council                    climate as        the Council    cost of
                         with 4                        cost of                         evidenced by:     of Ministers                   evidenced by:     of Ministers   proerty and
                         services.                     property                        (a) submission    of the                         (a) submission    of the         commerical
                                                       registration.                   of the draft      Rehabilitatio                  of the draft      Rehabilitati   transactions.
                                                                                       bankruptcy        n of Firms                     bankruptcy law    on of Firms    VII dropped
                                                                                       law by the        and                            by the            and            public
                                                                                       Business          Bankruptcy                     Business          Bankruptcy     consultation
                                                                                       Development       Law and                        Development       Law            from VI.
                                                                                       and Innovation    submission                     and Innovation
                                                                                       Agency            of the draft                   Agency
                                                                                       (ADEI) to the     Bankruptcy                     (ADEI) to the
                                                                                       Council of        Law for                        Council of
                                                                                       Ministers; and    public                         Ministers; and
                                                                                       (b) the switch    consultation.                  (b) the switch
                                                                                       from ad-                                         from ad-
                                                                                       valorem to                                       valorem to
                                                                                       fixed rates for                                  fixed rates for
                                                                                       real estate and                                  real estate and
                                                                                       commercial                                       commercial
                                                                                       registration                                     registration
                                                                                       duties.                                          duties.




                                                                                      33
Land      Transparen     Cadastre         All islands      Finalization    Approved,                           The              Approved,                                             Triggers
Manage-   t rules for    Law              development      and approval    through: (a)                        adoption of      through: (a)                                          dropped (no
ment      land           approved         plans            of a national   its Council                         the national     its Council                                           policy
          allocation.    and task         (EROTs)          strategic       of Ministers,                       development      of Ministers,                                         dialogue with
                         force            completed        development     the Cadastre                        strategy for     the Cadastre                                          the Bank in
                         appointed to     and approved     plan.           Decree-                             land use by      Decree-                                               this area).
                         operationali     by GOCV.                         Law; and                            the Council      Law; and
                         ze it.                                            (b) its Prime                       of Ministers.    (b) its Prime
                                                                           Minister                                             Minister
                                                                           Office, the                                          Office, the
                                                                           appointment                                          appointment
                                                                           of a task                                            of a task
                                                                           force                                                force
                                                                           empowered                                            empowered
                                                                           to                                                   to
                                                                           implement it                                         implement it
Energy    Restore        Preparation      Advancement      Advancement     Approval by       Improvements      Further          Approval by      Improvements        Further          PRSC VI
          financial      of a medium      toward           toward          Council of        in the            improvemen       Council of       in the              improvemen       refined
          viability of   term             implementatio    implementatio   Ministers of      organizational    ts in            Ministers of     organizational      ts in            trigger from
          the            developmen       n of the         n of the        a medium          structure of      ELECTRA’s        a medium         structure of        ELECTRA’s        V. PRSC VI
          electricity    t strategy for   medium term      medium term     term              ELECTRA           performance      term             ELECTRA and         performance      enhanced
          sector.        the              development      development     developmen        and measures      as evidenced     developmen       measures to         as evidenced     PRSC VII
                         electricity      strategy, as     strategy as     t strategy for    to improve its    by: (a) the      t strategy for   improve its         by: (a) the      trigger with
                         sector.          evidenced by:    evidenced by:   the               operational       adoption of      the              operational and     adoption of      additional
                                          i) definition    i) definition   electricity       and               the action       electricity      commercial          the action       comoponents
                                          of ELECTRA       and             sector.           commercial        plan for the     sector.          performance as      plan for the     .
                                          restructuring,   implementatio                     performance       second                            evidenced by:       second
                                          including        n of a                            as evidenced      phase of its                      (a) the             phase of its
                                          private sector   mechanism to                      by: (a) the       institutional                     adoption by         institutional
                                          participation    settle public                     adoption by       restructuring                     ELECTRA             restructuring
                                          options and      customers                         ELECTRA           ; (b) the                         Board of a          ; (b) the
                                          legal and        electricity                       Board of a        design of a                       comprehensive       design of a
                                          regulatory       bills; ii)                        comprehensive     comprehensi                       investment          comprehensi
                                          implications;    adoption of a                     investment        ve, realistic                     plan, including     ve, realistic
                                          ii) measures     new tariff                        plan, including   and time-                         financing and       and time-
                                          to improve       mechanism                         financing and     bound                             implementatio       bound
                                          operational      consistent                        implementatio     approach to                       n schedule; (b)     approach to
                                          and              with the                          n schedule; (b)   the financial                     the adoption by     the financial
                                          commercial       restructured                      the adoption      restructuring                     the Council of      restructuring
                                          performance.     ELECTRA.                          by the Council    of                                Ministers of        of
                                          Implementati                                       of Ministers of   ELECTRA,                          the institutional   ELECTRA,
                                          on by                                              the               including:                        restructuring       including:
                                          ELECTRA of                                         institutional     recapitalizati                    program for         recapitalizati
                                          measures to                                        restructuring     on;                               ELECTRA             on;
                                          improve                                            program for       restructuring                     including a         restructuring
                                          operational                                        ELECTRA           of financial                      roadmap for its     of financial




                                                                                            34
and             including a        short term      implementatio      short term
commercial      roadmap for its    debt and        n and the          debt and
performance.    implementatio      financing       creation and       financing
                n and the          mechanisms      registration of    mechanisms
                creation and       for public      the two new        for public
                registration of    lighting; (c)   subsidiaries;      lighting; (c)
                the two new        the adoption    (c) the            the adoption
                subsidiaries;      of a new        adoption by        of a new
                (c) the            regulatory      ELECTRA            regulatory
                adoption by        tariff-         board of a set     tariff-
                ELECTRA            adjustment      of measures to     adjustment
                board of a set     model           improve            model
                of measures to     compatible      commercial         compatible
                improve            with            and operational    with
                commercial         ELECTRA’s       performance        ELECTRA’s
                and                institutional   (billing, use of   institutional
                operational        restructuring   fuel oil and       restructuring
                performance        ; and (d) the   transmission       ; and (d) the
                (billing, use of   signature of    losses); (d) the   signature of
                fuel oil and       a results-      issuance by        a results-
                transmission       based           ELECTRA            based
                losses); (d) the   management      Board of a         management
                issuance by        contract        time-bound         contract
                ELECTRA            between         action plan to     between
                Board of a         ELECTRA         restructure the    ELECTRA
                time-bound         and the         arrears with its   and the
                action plan to     General         providers and      General
                restructure the    Directorate     initial actions    Directorate
                arrears with its   of the          inviting the       of the
                providers and      Treasury.       creditors to       Treasury.
                initial actions                    negotiate the
                inviting the                       rescheduling of
                creditors to                       these arrears.
                negotiate the
                rescheduling
                of these
                arrears.




               35
Transport   Increase        Improvement      Improvement       Improvement        Further          Improvement        Further          Triggers for
            operational     in TACV          in TACV           in TACV’s          improvemen       in TACV’s          improvemen       VI and VII
            efficiency of   financial        financial         operational,       ts in            operational,       ts in            badly
            air transport   sustainability   sustainability    financial and      TACV’s           financial and      TACV’s           designed in
            company         through: (i)     through: (i)      commercial         operational,     commercial         operational,     PRSC V: 1)
                            reduction of     reduction of      management         financial and    management as      financial and    indicators not
                            direct           direct            as evidenced       commercial       evidenced by:      commercial       actions; 2)
                            operating        operating         by: (a) the        management       (a) the            management       identifal
                            costs            costs             presentation of    as evidenced     presentation of    as evidenced     forPRSC VI
                            (excluding       (excluding        its annual         by: (a) the      its annual         by: (a) the      and VII).
                            fuel) per        fuel) per         balances for       presentation     balances for       presentation     Improvement
                            passenger seat   passenger seat    2007, 2008         of the           2007, 2008 and     of the           s in PRSC
                            kilometer        kilometer         and 2009           audited          2009               audited          VI.
                            offered; and,    offered; and,     (including         annual           (including         annual
                            (ii) (ii)        (ii) increase     audited            accounts for     audited            accounts for
                            increase of      of unit           balances for       2009 and         balances for       2008, 2009
                            unit revenues    revenues (as      2007); (b) the     2010; (b) the    2007); (b) the     and 2010;
                            (as measured     measured by       complete           maintenance      complete           (b) the
                            by passenger     passenger seat    clearance of       of zero          clearance of       maintenance
                            seat kilometer   kilometer         arrears with its   arrears in the   arrears with its   of zero
                            offered).        offered).         private            balance for      private            arrears in the
                                                               suppliers, and     2010; (c)        suppliers, and     balance for
                                                               the proper         full             the proper         2010; (c)
                                                               execution of       operation of     execution of its   acquisition
                                                               its debt           the              debt               of an
                                                               rescheduling       integrated       rescheduling       integrated
                                                               agreement          accounting       agreement with     accounting
                                                               with ASA           system for       ASA including      system for
                                                               including          the timely       adherence to       the timely
                                                               adherence to       preparation      the agreed debt    preparation
                                                               the agreed debt    of reports;      service            of reports.
                                                               service            (d) signature    schedule; (c)
                                                               schedule; (c)      of a result-     the
                                                               the                based            establishment
                                                               establishment      management       of an
                                                               of an              contract         integrated
                                                               integrated         between the      accounting and
                                                               accounting and     government       receipt
                                                               receipt            and TACV;        collection
                                                               collection         and (e) the      system; and (d)
                                                               system; and        adoption of      adoption of a
                                                               (d) adoption of    a business       set of
                                                               a set of           plan for         appropriate
                                                               appropriate        2011-2015        measures by
                                                               measures by        by the           the Board of
                                                               the Board of       TACV             TACV to




                                                              36
                                                 TACV to           Board.   reduce costs
                                                 reduce costs               and improve
                                                 and improve                the operational
                                                 the operational            performance
                                                 performance                such as
                                                 such as                    personnel
                                                 personnel                  rationalization
                                                 rationalization            measures, the
                                                 measures, the              suspension of
                                                 suspension of              several costly
                                                 several costly             employee
                                                 employee                   benefits
                                                 benefits                   including free
                                                 including free             airfare
                                                 airfare                    allowances for
                                                 allowances for             family
                                                 family                     members and a
                                                 members and a              new sales and
                                                 new sales and              distribution
                                                 distribution               policy to
                                                 policy to                  increase
                                                 increase                   revenues.
                                                 revenues.

Efficiency of   Improve        Approval by                                                    Dropped:
Government      targeting of   the Council of                                                 the
Poverty         social         Ministers of a                                                 government
Reduction       actions via    strategy for                                                   decided to
Activities      pilot          the                                                            consider the
                programs.      implementatio                                                  area cross-
                               n of new                                                       cutting in its
                               instruments                                                    poverty
                               for targeted                                                   reduction
                               safety net.                                                    strategy




                                                37
                             Annex 2: Key outcome indicators

PRSC V                           PRSC VI                            PRSC VII
Amount of Government             Remaining government
arrears towards its suppliers,   arrears (as a % of total arrears
agencies and municipalities      recognized in 2005).
reduced to zero.
Proportion of non-complying
sole source contracts reduced
to zero.
Weighted average (by assets)     Weighted average by assets of
of capital adequacy ratio        the capital adequacy ratio
increased above 11 percent.      (Basel 1) of banks (%).
Debt service coverage ratio of                                      ELECTRA’s debt service
ELECTRA increased above 1.                                          coverage ratio above 1.
                                 ELECTRA’s technical and            ELECTRA’s technical and
                                 non-technical losses (as a %       non-technical losses (as a % of
                                 of total megawatts generated).     total megawatts generated).
                                 TACV’s direct operating
                                 costs, excluding fuel, per
                                 passenger seat-kilometer.
                                                                    TACV’s revenue- passenger-
                                                                    kilometer (in million of CVE).
                                 Projects and programs for          Projects and programs for
                                 which indicators are tracked       which indicators are tracked by
                                 by the M&E system (as a %          the M&E system (as percent of
                                 of the total budget).              total budget).
                                                                    Number of years to submit the
                                                                    General Accounts of the State
                                                                    to the Court of Accounts
                                                                    Number of audits prepared by
                                                                    ARAP
                                                                    Average time to close a firm
                                                                    (years)
                                                                    Recovery rate by claimants
                                                                    (creditors, employees, govt.)
                                                                    from insolvent firms (cents per
                                                                    dollar owed)




                                               38
                                                      Annex 3: Matrix of Indicators

PRSP Policy      Results Framework        V   V   VI         2008     Base-       PRSC V    PRSC VI    Latest      Target*   Evalu-
   Area                                       I    I                   line        2010       2011    Available*              ation
                                                                      2009
                                                              Good Governance
Macroeconomi   Remaining government       X X     X     40           15       0                       0            0         S
 c Stability   arrears (% of total
               arrears assumed in 2005)
               Amount of arrears of       X             100                                                        <100      Not
               ELECTRA towards its                                                                                 (2010)    rated
               suppliers
   PFM:        Number of years            X X     X     3            3        2                       2            2         S
  External     between budget
  Controls     execution and
               completion of audits
               Number of years to                 X                  3        1                       <1           <1        S
               submit the General
               Accounts of the State to
               the Court of Accounts
               Number of                      X   X                  19       21           18         12           28        U
               municipalities,
               embassies and institutes
               audited by TdC
Procurement    % of non-complying sole    X                                                9.6                     0         U
               source contracts.                                                                                   (2011)
               Number of staff trained        X   X                  0        266          329        401          400       S
               under the strategic plan
               of DSCP capacity
               building (cumulative)
               Number of staff at the         X                      0        5            9          9            10        S
               UGAC subject to prior                                                                  (2011)       (2011)
               review by DSCP
               (cumulative)




                                                                    39
                 Number of audits                     X               0        3                     >10          >10        S
                 prepared by ARAP
Government/      Number of research           X           0                                                       2          Not
   State         functions transferred to                                                                         (2010)     rated
Modernization    university.
                 Number of DGPOG              X           4                    12                    12           10         S
                 created and staffed.                                                                (2010)       (2010)
                 Number of                    X           3                    21                    21           21         S
                 municipalities producing                                                            (2010)       (2010)
                 timely accounts.
                 Steps towards                X           Not                  Not        Not        Not          Approved   U
                 Implementation of the                    approved             approved   approved   approved     (2010)
                 new career system/
                 adoption of system
                 Number of                        X   X   3           15       18         21         22           22         S
                 municipalities included
                 in the Municipal
                 Information System
                 Number of ministries                 X               5        10         11         13           15         M.S.
                 restructured
Statistics and   % of household survey        X           40                   100                   100 (2010)   100        S
    M&E          data available in Statline                                                                       (2010)
                 (national data website)
                 % of project and             X X     X               NA       80         0          100          100        S
                 program for which
                 indicators are tracked by
                 the M&E system.
                                                          Human Capital Enhancement

 Vocational      % of TSF funds used for      X           0                    0                                  >75        Not
  Training       TVET delivery.                                                                                   (2010)     rated




                                                                     40
             Number of institutions           X   X                 0       15      22      22       22       S
             accredited by the                                                              (2011)   (2011)
             Ministry of professional
             training / TVET System
             Number of students               X   X                 4500    4600    2380    1500     6000     U
             enrolled
                                                            Competitiveness
Trade/ FDI   Trade openness indicator     X           123.7       103.5     105.7   113.9   109.7    110      S
             in % of GDP                                                                             (2011)
             Net FDI flows (as % of           X   X   13.4          7.5     6.7     5.6     3.4      8.5      M.U.
             GDP)
Tax System   Marginal Tax Rates for       X X         30                    25      25      25       25       S
             businesses.                                                                    (2011)   (2011)
             New tax incentive                    X                 No      No              Yes      Yes      S
             system adopted
Financial    Weighted average (by         X X     X   9.9           10.7    10.3            13.4     >12      S
 Sector      assets) of capital                       ( includes
             adequacy ratio (Basel 1)                 only
             of the entire system                     onshore
             in %.                                    banks)

 Business    Number of days to open       X X         52            24      11      11      11       ≤24      S
 Climate     a business.                                                                             (2011)
             Cost of property             X X     X   7.7           7.6     3.9     3.9     3.7      ≤4       S
             registration.
             Average number of years              X   >4            NA      NA      NA      NA       ≤2       Not
             to close a business.                                                                             rated
             Recovery rate by                     X   NA            NA      NA      NA      NA       40.0     Not
             claimants (creditors,                                                                            rated
             employees, govt.) from
             insolvent firms (cents per
             dollar owed)




                                                                   41
                                                              Infrastructure
  Land           Number of Regional          X X   X   0             0         3      7      7             10       M.S.
Management       Plans for Territorial                                                       (2011)        (2011)
                 Organization (EROT)
                 homologated
                 (cumulative)
                 Number of Municipal         X X   X   1             1         6      7      14            22       U
                 Development Plans
                 (PDMs) homologated
                 (cumulative)
   Energy        Debt service coverage       X X   X   0.3           0.75      1      NA     NA            1.1      Not
                 ratio of ELECTRA.                                                                                  rated
                 Technical and non           X X   X   26.5          28        26.1   27     27.8          <25       U
                 technical losses as % of
                 MGW generation.
                 Power generation              X   X                 86        90     94     116           >110     S
                 capacity (in megawatts)
                 Renewable energy (as %        X   X                 3         3      4.8    30            18       S
                 of total power generated)
Transport (air   Direct operating costs,     X X   X                 7.67      NA     7.91   7.91 (2011)   2.85     U
  transport      excluding fuel, per                                                                       (2011)
  company)       passenger seat-kilometer
                 (CVE)

                 Unit revenues as            X X   X                 606       720    783    783 (2011)    779      S
                 measured by passenger                                                                     (2011)
                 seat-kilometer (CVE)




                                                                   42
                      Yield as measured by                     X                     7.23        NA             12.73                  8.2         Not
                      passenger -kilometer                                                                                                         rated
                      (CVE)13

                                                                             Social cohesion
 Efficiency of        Annual reports                 x                                           A report on            A report on    First       S
 Government           published.                                                                 social                 social         Report
   Poverty                                                                                       cohesion               cohesion       Published
  Reduction                                                                                      GPRSP II               GPRSP II       (2011)
  Activities                                                                                     axis                   axis
                                                                                                 progress               progress
                                                                                                 was                    was
                                                                                                 published              published
                                                                                                 in 2010                in 2010
                                                                                                 (relating to           (relating to
                                                                                                 2009)                  2009)
                                                                                                                        (2010)
*2012 unless stated otherwise




13
     Note: 2012 data not available but this is an indicator for PRSC VII, therefore it cannot be rated.




                                                                                    43
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
 P113306 - Cape Verde - DPL 1/PRSC V
                                                                     Responsibility/
         Names                          Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Charles Coste             Consultant                       AFTP4
Ghislaine C. Delaine      Senior Statistician              DECDG
Mamadou Diarrassouba      Monitoring & Evaluation Spec.    AFTDE
Sidy Diop                 Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPW
Maria Manuela Do
                          Senior Economist                 OPSPQ
Rosario Francisco
Alvaro S. Gonzalez        Lead Economist                 ECSF1
Helene Grandvoinnet       Lead Social Development Specia SDV
Sidonie Jocktane          Executive Assistant           AFMGA
Olivier J. Lambert        Program Manager               MIGEA
                                                        AFTPR-
Ezzeddine Larbi           Consultant
                                                          HIS
                                                        AFMM
Haroune Ould Sidatt       Consultant
                                                           R
Supervision

(b) Staff Time and Cost
P113306 – Poverty Reduction Support Credit (5)
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)
Stage                      No. of staff weeks           USD Thousands (including
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                                         $111,327.025
FY09                                   48.05                     $331,085.34
FY10                                   15.69
                                                Total:           $442,412.34
Supervision

P1212812 – Poverty Reduction Support Credit (6)
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)
Stage                      No. of staff weeks           USD Thousands (including
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY10                                    6.56                     $36,423.62
FY11                                   14.89                     $132,933.44
                   Total:                                        $169,357.06
Supervision


                                         44
P122669 – Poverty Reduction Support Credit (7)
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)
Stage                      No. of staff weeks           USD Thousands (including
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                   12.35                     $111,038.56
FY12                                   14.95                     $162,212.92
                   Total:                                        $273,251.48
Supervision

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                         45
           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      The World Bank’s latest series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs V through
VII) was essential in supporting the implementation of the Government’s Second Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (spanning the period from 2008 to 2011). The implementation of the
strategy faced a particular adverse and challenging macroeconomic environment due to the world
financial and economic crisis that impacted Cape Verde’s balance of payments and growth
dynamics particularly through a sharp decrease in Foreign Direct Investment. In response, the
Government pursued a strategy of anti-cyclical stimulus through an expansion of the public
investment program. This strategy pursed key investments in ports, airports, roads, dams, schools,
hospitals, and other key infrastructure meant to improve the business environment and achieve
socially inclusive growth.

2.     The use of the macroeconomic buffers that had been built up in previous years,
considering the context of a challenging external environment and Cape Verde’s vulnerability as
a small island state, means the close surveillance of macro-fiscal risks and a close coordination
of monetary and fiscal/budget policies. To that effect, the PRSC series was an important
contribution in supporting and advising towards the maintenance of Cape Verde’s stability and
peg policy to the euro whilst enabling authorities to engage in the economic stimulus program.

3.      Furthermore, the World Bank’s prominent role in the Budget Support Group (BSG) -
made up of the six budget support partners and which is the leading reference forum for policy
and technical dialogue between development partners and Cape Verdean authorities - allowed for
high level discussions that opened up a series of analytical and advisory assistance avenues and
further enhanced donor coordination, harmonization and alignment with national priorities. The
PRSC’s continuous monitoring and evaluation can be very much viewed as the “pivot? in the
Bank’s relationship with the country. The open and frank dialogue in the several pillars of the
operations contributed to the advancement of reforms in the several key areas of good
governance. With regards to Public Finance Management, the support to the reform on the
improvement of debt management, enhancement of control of SOEs and tax policy advisory
assistance, is instrumental in enabling a better control of liabilities and efficiency in revenue
collection. Furthermore, the support and technical assistance of the Bank to the National
Planning System is ongoing and has been important in advancing key reforms such as the state
budget programming methodology and the national investment system, with a heightened
emphasis on monitoring and evaluation and the capacitation of the national statistics body, now
being rolled out by occasion of the third Growth and Poverty Reduction Support Paper (2012 –
2016). The process of conceiving the GPRSP III also received analytical inputs from the Bank
from the continuous dialogue in the BSG Forum under the PRSC series, elaboration of the
Country Economic Memorandum, and the ensuing consensus on the structural challenges facing
the Cape Verdean economy going forward.

4.      The areas of public procurement, competitiveness and trade have earned significantly
from the Bank’s technical assistance through a dedicated Small and Medium Enterprise Capacity
Building and Economic Governance project and the PRSC’s monitoring and evaluation and
positive “pressure? on associated triggers. The overhaul of the whole public procurement
legislation in order to adapt it to international standards and the creation and capacitation of the



                                                46
Public Procurement Regulatory authority were key advances that took place under the PRSCs
umbrella. In addition, the reform of the Investment Code and Tax Benefit diplomas were
fundamental to reverse discretionary aspects and lack of return of certain benefits given out to
FDI projects.

5.      The infrastructure pillar was the source to some of the most difficult dialogue in the
PRSC context between the Bank and authorities considering that progresses specifically in the
energy and transport sectors were deemed insufficient up to 2010. Nonetheless, since then
progress in the state utility ELECTRA is noticeable, a multi pillar restructuring program is now
in full effect with the support of a credit of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. The reform aims to tackle chronic issues in the sector such as energy production
capacity and the reduction of technical and commercial losses in distribution. In the transport
sector, progress has been less satisfactory since the state airline is still financially unsound and
loss making, nonetheless the change of management has marked the first steps towards a reversal
and the close support of the Bank’s transport project – now to be renewed in the context of the
new Country Partnership – will be instrumental in supporting the forthcoming restructuring.

6.      In conclusion, the World Bank’s PRSCs were vital in supporting the Government’s
agenda and maintaining macroeconomic stability during a difficult and volatile context. The
associated dialogue on the analytic and advisory assistance remains critical since Cape Verde’s
challenge is now to manage a transition from a strong public investment stimulus to a private
sector led growth model. Such challenge will require key reforms to be implemented in the
coming years under the GPRSP III, namely labor market flexibility, continuous business
environment improvement, better utility and state enterprise performance, high value and market
aligned technical and vocational education and training, amongst others. The World Bank as the
lead coordinator of the BSG since early 2012 is expected to be a key enabler and contributor to
this ambitious reform agenda through a renewed PRSC series.

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                                47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

PRSC V:
Program Document: Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit. Report number 51426-CV.

PRSC VI:
Program Document: Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit. Report number 56183-CV.

PRSC VII:
Program Document: Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit. Report number 65183-CV.

JSAN:
Joint ISA-IMF Staff Advisory Note of the Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Report
number 43927-CV.
CPS:
Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Cape Verde for the Period FY09-12. Report
number 47750-CV.

PEMFAR:
Cape Verde Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review. May 2012.

Analytical Underpinnings:

PRSC V:
Poverty Assessment (2008) / QUIBB (Questionário dos Indicadores Básicos de Bem-estar -
Unified Questionnaire of Basic Wellbeing Indicators)
Poverty Update (2009)
Public Expenditure Review (PER, 2006) - Report No. 34523
Public Expenditure Review Update (2008), “Cape Verde: The Challenge of Increasing Fiscal
Space to Meet Future Pressures?
Cape Verde, Improving the Performance of the State: Governance and Public Management
Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Assessment
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)
Tax incentives by IMF and PFD (2008)
Investment Climate Assessment (2006) - Report no. 38367
Cape Verde’s Insertion in the Global Economy - Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS)
for the Integrated Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance to the Least Developed
Countries (2009)
Tourism Satellite Accounting
(World Travel and Tourism Council, 2008)
Fisheries Sector Strategy -
Report no. AAA21-CV
Cost of Insularity
Funded by ADB (Draft, 2007)
Governance - Role of State ESW (3/04)
Preliminary analysis of Civil Service Database (2005)


                                             48
Social Protection Strategy (2005)
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, 2003)
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR, 2004) - Report no. 40412

PRSC VI:
Electra; From Recovery to Sustainability Study -Subnational Technical Assistance Program
(SNTA) - Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory (PPIAF) (2010 Forthcoming)
Cape Verde: Initial Assessment of the Formal Labor Market (2010)
Cape Verde: Debt Management Performance Assessment DeMPA, (2010)
Cape Verde: Joint World Bank – IMF Debt Sustainability Analysis (2009)
Cape Verde: Enhancing Planning to Increase Efficiency of Public Spending. Public
Expenditure Review (2009)
Cape Verde’s Insertion in the Global Economy - Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS)
for the Integrated Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance to the Least
Developed Countries (2009)
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) (2009)
Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) 2007
Doing Business 2010: Comparing Regulation in 183 countries (2009)
Cape Verde: The Challenge of Increasing Fiscal Space to Meet Future Pressures (2006)
Investment Climate Assessment (2006) - Report no. 38367
Cape Verde: Country Economic Memorandum (Forthcoming, 2011)

PRSC VII
Cape Verde: Country Economic Memorandum (2013, Draft of 2011)
Cape Verde: Inter-island Transport Study (Forthcoming, 2011)
Electra; From Recovery to Sustainability Study -Subnational Technical Assistance Program
(SNTA) - Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory (PPIAF) (Forthcoming, 2011)
Cape Verde: Higher Education (Forthcoming, 2011)
Cape Verde: Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report (2011)
Doing Business 2011: Cape Verde: Making a Difference for Entrepreneurs
Initial Assessment of the Formal Labor Market (2010)
Doing Business 2010: Comparing Regulation in 183 countries
Cape Verde: Enhancing Planning to Increase Efficiency of Public Spending. Public
Expenditure Review (2009)
Cape Verde’s Insertion in the Global Economy - Diagnostic Trade Integration Study (DTIS)
for the Integrated Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance to the Least
Developed Countries (2009)
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) (2009)




                                             49
                                                               25˚W                                                                   24˚W                                                                23˚W
                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                               RIBEIRA                                                                                                                                                GSDPM
                                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                              GRANDE                          Ribeira Grande                                                                                                          Map Design Unit     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                 Vila das Pombas
                                Ribeira da Cruz                        PAÚL
                                          Lajes                     Santo Antão
           17˚N                       (1803 m)            Porto Novo                                                                                                                                                                                                 17˚N
                         PORTO
                         NOVO
                                                        Mindelo         SÃO VINCENTE

                                                                                                                WIND
                                                                          Calhau
                                                  São Pedro         Madeiral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sal
                                       São Vicente                                  Santa Luzia
                                                                                                                                     WA R                                                               Espargos
                                                                                                                                                 D IS
                                                                        Ilhéu Branco
                                                                                                        Ribeira Brava
                                                                                                                        RIBEIRA BRAVA
                                                                                                                                                      LAN                                                SAL

                                                                                                                                                          DS
                                                                                Ilhéu Raso                                                                                                                            Santa Maria
                                                                                                         Tarrafal        Preguica
                                                                                      SÃO NICOLAU                       São Nicolau



                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sal-Rei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                           BOA VISTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                               Povocão Velha
           16˚N
                                                                                     AT L A N T I C                                                      OCEAN                                                                                                       16˚N



                    CAPE
                    VERDE




                                                                                                        S L A NDS
                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                A R D TARRAFAL São Tiago
                                                                                              W
                                                                                          LEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maio
                  CA PE VER D E                                                                                       SÃO MIGUEL
                                                                                                                        SANTA CRUZ
                                                                                                                                              Tarrafal
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIO
                                                                                                                              SANTA CATARINA                  Santa Cruz
                     CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                      Vila do Maio
                                                                                               MOSTEIROS                                     Santa Catarina
                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                    Mosteiros
                                                                                                                     Igreja
                                                                                                                                                                     SÃO DOMINGOS
                                                                                   Ilhéus Do                                    SÃO SALVADOR                  São Domingo
                                                                       15˚N          Rombo                                        DO MUNDO                                                                                                                           15˚N
                     RIVERS
                                                                                                         Mt. Fogo
                                                                                                                                                                     PRAIA                                              0     10      20     30 Kilometers
                     MAIN ROADS                                                                         (2,829 m)                   SÃO LOURENÇO                   PRAIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33383R
                                                                        Brava          Furna     São                                  DOS ÓRGÃOS
                     CONCELHO (MUNICIPALITY)                           BRAVA                   Filipe
MAY 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0          10         20          30 Miles
                     BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                           Fogo         SANTA CATARINA RIBEIRA GRANDE
                                                                                    SÃO FILIPE                          DO FOGO         DE SANTIAGO
                                                                25˚W                                                                  24˚W                                                                23˚W
