Docuiment of
The World Bank
Report No: 25519-BiH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION (US$12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 27, 2003
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 2002)
Currency Unit = Konvertibilna Marka
KM I = US$0.5
US$1 = 2.0 KM
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AK           Agro-Kombinat
APCU          Agriculture Project Coordination Unit
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGP          Competitive Grant Program
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
EU           European Union
FBH          Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GTZ          German Technical Cooperation Agency
HACCP        Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPRSP        Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
JCGC         Joint Competitive Grant Committee
LIP           Local Initiatives Project
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MCO          Micro Credit Organization
NPV          Net Present Value
OHR          Office of the High Representative
PCB          Participating Commercial Bank
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PFI          Participating Financial Intermediary
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy
RS           Republika Srpska
SOE          Statements of Expenditure
SPS          Sanitary and Phytosanitary
USAID        US Agency for International Development
WTO          World Trade Organization
WUA          Water User Association
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Acting Country Director:  Neil Simon M. Gray
Sector Manager:   Joseph R. Goldberg
Task Team Leader:   Rapeepun Jaisaard



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SMALL-SCALE COMMERCLIL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     3
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                     18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         19
2. Financial                                                                        19
3. Technical                                                                        20
4. Institutional                                                                    20
5. Environmental                                                                    24
6. Social                                                                           25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   29
2. Critical risks                                                                   29



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   32
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          32
2. Other                                                                            33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      49
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         50
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  57
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  58
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          76
Annex 11: Credit Component                                                             78
Annex 12: Farmer Associations/New Style Cooperatives: Apiculture                       87
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 32313



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: February 27,2003                           Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard
Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg      Sector(s): Agro-industry (29%), Irrigation and drainage
Country Manager/Director: Neil Simon M. Gray     (25%), Agricultural marketing and trade (17%), Crops
Project ID: P055434                              (15%), Agricultural extension and research (14%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural markets (P), Rural non-farm income
generation (P), Rural policies and institutions (P), Rural
services and infrastructure (P)
Project Financlng Data
1]Loan     [pq Credit    1 Grant      1 Guarantee      1 Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (USSm): $12.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (USSm):   Source                            Local         Forelgn        Total
BORROWER                                                      0.00           0.00          0.00
IDA                                                           3.06           8.94         12.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING             2.13           0.00          2.13
COUNTRY
Total:                                                        5.18           8.94         14.13
Borrower: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BH and Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations.
Address: Trg Bih I
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Monmir Tosic, Deputy Minister, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and
Ms. Bejta Delic, Department Manager, Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BH.
Other Agency(ies):
BH Federation (FBH):
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Management
Address: Mehmeda Spahe 9
Sarajevo
BH Federation
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Marinko Bozic, Minister, and Mr. Alojz Dundjer, Project Director
Tel: (387 33) 233-801         Fax: (387 33) 663-659          Email: piusum@bih.net.ba
Republika Srpska (RS)
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry
Address: Banja Luka



Tel: (387 51)m305-777        Fax: (387 51)r305-776        Emas: vaskosapcuorg
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/USSm):
FY-        2003      2004      .2005     2006      2007      2008      2009
Annual     0.50      2.40      3.50      3.00      1.50      0.80      0.30
Cumulative    0.50      2.90      6.40      9.40     10.90     11.70     12.00
ProJect Implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2009
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
To develop private, market-integrated commercial agriculture in selected low-income, high-potential
areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH). The project would (I) encourage farmers to adopt more
productive and profitable production systems and increase the marketability of their surplus production,
(2) assist them in marketing their produce through the formation of new-style cooperatives and other
marketing associations, (3) create a dynamic commercial agriculture by strengthening the linkages among
farmers and mnarkets through the promotion of private sector investment in and credit for farming,
agro-processing and trading, (4) facilitate the export of agricultural products, including those aimed at
niche markets, through information and technical assistance and (5) support measures and investments to
strengthen the physical and institutional infrastructure of rural communities. Through all these activities,
the project would create a more conducive business environment at farm, company, and municipal levels.
The increased production and productivity resulting from the project would increase farming and other
rural incomes and reduce unemployment and poverty.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
The major key measurable performance indicators are: (a) incremental marketable surplus, income and
employment from increased agricultural production and productivity (b) number of farmer, water-user,
processor and trader associations registered and functioning, (c) number of investment proposals
submitted and approved by commercial banks and micro credit organizations, (d) number of competitive
grant proposals approved and implemented and (e) percentage of irrigation facilities rehabilitated. The
major impact performance indicators are: (a) availability and use of market information; (b) general
principles of price by grade and quality established, (c) existence and use of transparent, accountable,
demand-driven decision making process in project-established associations, (d) guidelines developed for
and actual practices implemented in agriculture loan appraisal and business plans, (e) number of
commercial bank and MCO staff who have acquired requisite skills, (f) loan repayment performance, and
(g) viable technologies developed and adapted to local environments and markets.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24978 BIH  Dat of latest CAS discussion: Progress Report, November 12, 2002.
The first phase of the Bank assistance strategy following the Dayton Accords focused on the rebuilding
of economic and social infrastructure. The second-phase, for post-conflict development (FYOO-02 CAS),
centered on nation building along the lines of a E,uropean market economy and supports were for
structural reforms, institution building and community-based development. While the success in
structural reform has been slow, support to foster the private sector has been satisfactory in the area of
labor markets, banking reform and privatization.
The original CAS (IDAIR2000-0060) was discussed by the Board on May 18, 2000. The recent CAS
Progress Report identified objectives established in the last CAS as: (i) strengthening institutions and
govemance, (ii) fostering private sector-led growth and (iii) building social sustainability. These three
pillars are mutually reinforcing. Long-term fiscal sustainability rests on further reductions in public
expenditure to allow the private sector room for growth, while at the same time improving targeting and
efficiency in the delivery of social services. Bank assistance would focus on helping the authorities reach
these objectives.



Among the CAS development priorities, the following are of particular relevance to the proposed project:
(a) development of a market-oriented private sector, (b) increased employment and reduced poverty; (c)
enhanced trade with neighboring and European countries, (d) increased cooperation between the two
entities and (e) improved opportunity for export-led growth.
The proposed project would take these strategies and priorities into the agriculture sector. Broad-based
growth of sustainable, private-sector commercial agriculture would be a major theme. Private farmers,
traders and processors, would be the main beneficiaries. The project would support community-driven
initiatives and market-driven production. Communities would make key decisions on project-financed
irrigation infrastructure and on its use and maintenance. Representatives of the two Entities would work
together to develop innovative production and marketing technologies through competitive grant
programs. The project would improve understanding and use of market signals on price, quality, and
delivery by farmers and provide access to the technologies and resources they need to respond to these
signals. Reinforcement of the links among production, processing and marketing would be central to this
process, together with support for the application of quality standards compatible with those of the EU.
The increased production and productivity resulting from the project would increase farm and other rural
incomes and reduce poverty.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Small-scale subsistence farmers, producing food for family consumption and a small surplus for the
market, dominate the agriculture sector in BH but produce far below their potential. Their productivity is
low because of outdated technology, low-intensity production systems, limited capital for farm
infrastructure and inputs, and lack of irrigation water. Incentives for farners to increase marketed surplus
are also weak, as the marketing infrastructure for most agricultural products is poorly developed,
assembly systems are inadequate, and most agro-processors are inefficient and unable to offer favorable
prices, quality control, credit, or technology to producers. Despite significant (albeit rapidly declining)
support from the international community, most private farmers and agro-processors still lack the
resources to take advantage of the more open economy of recent years and the new trade, price and
subsidy policies that are conducive to market competition. Farm and rural incomes thus remain low.
Aside from low productivity, the second critical issue is the limited availability and low quality of raw
materials for agro-processing. Commercial activity by private farmers and the other agents in the
marketing chain has been negligible due to the collapse of marketing functions previously carried out by
the agro-kombinats and the slow development of private firms and new-style cooperatives to fill the void.
Many processors are thus compelled to use imported raw materials due to the difficulty of organizing
regular supplies of good-quality local produce at competitive prices. A new free trade agreement with
Croatia will make it even easier for processors to import raw materials and so place Bosnian producers at
an increased disadvantage until the BH production base improves.
The agriculture challenge is to increase production of the type and quality of commodities sought by
local markets, in order to replace imports, and enable local traders and processors to increasingly
participate in international export markets, in particular niche markets. Bosnian farmers need to quickly
reach the point where their output is purchased by traders and processors in nearby countries, especially
in light of the expanding set of free trade agreements governing regional agricultural trade. The
competitive forces resulting from regional agricultural trade will promote specialization, improved
efficiency, market integration and higher incomes. Local agricultural and horticultural production is
responding to this challenge, with the assistance of internationally funded agriculture-sector projects but
progress has been slow.
-4 -



Food is purported to be safe in Bosnia and it probably is, though it is not yet certifiably true that meat and
plant products are free of disease and pesticide residues. Inspections are generally done in accordance
with the basic legislation, but lack of uniform, detailed and transparent rules often result in arbitrary
judgments. There is also no monitoring program to assess risk or confirm food safety and no single office
under the control of the national government that can address the full range of phytosanitary and public
health matters as required by the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
with the EU. Consequently, any action undertaken by either Entity toward supposed conformity with EU
requirements or international sanitary and phytosanitary practice might not be recognized unless it is
coordinated nationally.
Government Strategy: The Ministries of Agriculture of the two Entities of BH - Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina (FBH) and Republika Srpska (RS) - have (with the assistance of FAO) prepared and
adopted a strategy for agriculture sector development. This strategy views increased productivity and
output from small-scale private farmers and private-sector agro-processors as critical to future sector
development. To this end it recommends the development of more intensive agriculture systems for
Bosnia's small, fragmented farns. Increased investment in agro-processing is also indicated as the means
to acquire new processing technology, management skills and the capacity to compete in international
markets. The governments' strategy recognizes and emphasizes the need to strengthen marketing links
between producers and processors so as to increase the capacity of domestic crop and livestock
production to compete with imports and to develop export markets.
The strategy also addresses deep-seated problems in factor markets. Numerous measures are proposed to
strengthen weak rural land markets, as a means to reduce land fragmentation, increase farm size and
improve the use of land as collateral. The financial constraints faced by farmers and other rural economic
actors should also be addressed by increasing access to credit from commercial banks, agricultural
cooperatives and micro-finance organizations. To this end, the Entity governments are now working on
new laws for agricultural cooperatives and micro-finance institutions. Existing cooperative laws, passed
in 1997, which aim to develop new-style cooperatives according to modern (democratic) principles,
provide a good start but are still weak and inconsistent between the two entities. GTZ is currently
working to strengthen and harmonize these laws. The Bank is supporting the Entities in the preparation
of a new draft of legislation for micro-finance organizations and is working with the governments to
strengthen the commercial banking sector.
Despite positive developments in market-based economic reforms, a substantial reform agenda lies ahead
and further economic development depends on the acceleration of reforns. In support of this process, BH
governments in 2000 drafted their first countrywide economic strategy entitled "Economic Development:
A Global Framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina". The framework was prepared with the support of
local academics and in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders from government, productive
sectors, civil society and the donor community, and was approved by the Parliament in June 2001. The
strategy's main focus is on private sector growth to reduce unemployment and poverty, while
restructuring the social safety net to protect the poorest in a cost-effective way. The strategy recognizes
that the sustainability and efficiency of the econorny and strengthened competitiveness is predicated on
attracting long-term investors, and that attracting such investors required a predictable and coherent
policy environment countrywide. The government's IPRSP (submitted to the Bank and IMF in December
2001) based on the economic strategy adopted by Parliament outlined development priorities in
promoting private sector activity, strengthening the financial sector and establishing an enabling
environment for domestic and foreign investment. A special focus is placed on agriculture to improve
returns to the working poor, particularly those in rural and semi-urban areas. In the implementation of the
IPRSP and in preparation for the PRSP earlier this year, the government adopted an action plan to
- 5 -



improve the business environment.
The state is also pursuing parallel efforts to liberalize trade and open up regional markets. Trade
agreements with Croatia, FRY and Macedonia have been concluded, and similar agreements are expected
with Albania, Bulgaria and Romania. The importance of these agreements is underlined by the fact that
FRY and Croatia constitute 30% and 20%, respectively, of BIT's export markets.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
BH can increase agricultural production and productivity by intensification, i.e., by altering farming
systems to combine skills, technology, inputs and appropriate equipment to minimize costs and maximize
the value and market-relevancy of output. While a national-level program of adaptive research and
development should be supported in the future when the institutional context is favorable, the project's
strategic choice is to concentrate on the application and dissemination of established (domestic or
imported) technologies that support agricultural intensification, diversification and specialization in the
project area. The project area is located in southeastem Bosnia and Herzegovina and includes Capljina,
Ljubuski, Mostar, Neum and Stolac Districts in FBH and Trebinje, Bileca, Berkovici and Ljubinje
municipalities in RS.
The strategic choice was also made to rehabilitate and upgrade selected existing low-cost and informal
irrigation systems that benefit private farmers, such as Persian wheels and storage tanks, because this
investment is likely to have high economic and financial returns and also be low-risk. Some relatively
small river-source public irrigation structures would be rehabilitated under the project for the same
reasons. Rehabilitation of some large, public schemes was considered, but these schemes face many
ownership and design problems, which need to be addressed first by government and none of these issues
are likely to be resolved quickly. The economic and financial viability of some of the large systems is
also in doubt.
Subsistence agriculture lacks the economies of scale and the specialization needed for certain types of
commercial agriculture; however, small farmers can still often produce commercially viable, specialized
products. As a practical matter, this often requires the leadership of processors, traders or cooperatives,
which can promote, support and provide training in new, constantly evolving production and quality
control technologies. Farmer's associations, new-style cooperatives and private enterprises are emerging
in the project area, but need support to strengthen their commercial bases and develop products and
markets. The project's strategic choice is to support agro-processing firms, traders and cooperatives that
are prepared to work closely with farmers in order to obtain farm products that the processors, traders or
cooperatives have the ability to process, pack and sell competitively in local and export markets. To
improve the marketability of these agricultural commodities, the project would also support market
development programs and the application of product grades and standards that are consistent with EU
standards.
Limited access to financial services is a major impediment to the growth of commnercial agriculture in
eastem Herzegovina. Bank and non-bank financial institutions have a limited presence in rural areas in
the region and a weak capacity for agricultural lending. A combination of pre- and post-war factors
account for this situation. The pre-independence system of socialist government was oriented towards
support for large, state- and socially-owned enterprises and they marginalized small-scale, private
enterprise (both urban and rural). Commercial banks lent mostly to state and socially-owned enterprises,
which were in fact inherently unviable. Continued support from the commercial banks did much to
facilitate their continued, unprofitable operation. The financial position of the banks themselves suffered
markedly as a consequence.
-6 -



The post-independence banking sector remains wary of lending for agriculture, first because cormmercial
banks retain their long-standing mistrust of small-scale farms and agro-enterprises, and second because
they have suffered heavily from the financial losses and subsequent default incurred by the state and
socially-owned agro-kombinats and agro-processors. All agricultural lending, public and private, large or
small, is now considered too risky. In contrast, the few donor programs that are involved in lending to
agriculture demonstrate that there are in fact countless viable lending opportunities. The capital base of
most of commercial banks has been weak, due to low public confidence in the Banking sector,
inadequate deposits and poor management. Recently the condition of the banking sector has improved
significantly due to entry of foreign banks and expanded capital bases. Banks nevertheless remain
conservative in the allocation of their resources to sectors where lending is short term to match their
deposit base and less risky.
Prior to the initiation of Local Initiatives Project I (LIP-1), there had been no attempt to establish
financial institutions suited to providing financial services to small-scale enterprises. With the collapse of
the state and socially-owned agro-kombinats and agro-processors, which provided some supplier and
processor credit, small-scale farmers lost one of the few sources of credit to which they did have access
during the socialist era. Under the Bank's Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit, Bosnian
banks have undergone significant process of privatization which has involved restructuring and
rationalization of the sector: 90% of the sector is now privately controlled.
The donor commnunity has responded to this situation by strengthening the institutional base of the
financial system and providing credit lines to selected commercial banks. Neither small or large-scale
commercial agriculture has benefited substantially from this support, however. Agricultural loans
typically account for 5%-10% of SME lending and the LIP I project estimates that existing micro-credit
lines meet less than 20% of demand. Moreover, for political reasons, little donor support has reached the
project area. Lending for agriculture in the project area has thus been minimal, and bank and non-bank
financial institutions have a very limited presence in the rural areas of the region. Those that have a
presence have a weak capacity for agricultural lending. As a result, agro-processors and agribusiness
enterprises lack the means to modemize their plant, improve product quality and finance the acquisition
of raw materials. Similarly, small-scale producers lack the means to increase input use and invest in new
production technology in pursuit of increasing production and marketed surplus.
The project would respond to this situation, first, by strengthening the capacity of participating
commercial banks and micro credit organizations in the project area to evaluate agricultural loan
applications and to identify viable lending opportunities. Second, it would reduce the scarcity of capital
for lending by providing participating financial institutions with two lines of credit - through commercial
banks to finance larger loans to processors, traders, producer associations and cooperatives for working
capital and investment - and through micro-credit organizations to finance investment and working
capital for small-scale producers. These initiatives would facilitate an expansion of agricultural
investment and substantially improve the capacity of lenders to make profitable agricultural loans.
Lack of farmer participation and community acceptance can result in serious design errors and
implementation problems that can cause otherwise apparently well-designed projects to operate far below
potential. Thus, the project has made a strategic choice to use a bottom-up rather than a top-down
approach. Selection of technologies and investments would be made in consultation with cooperative or
Water User Association (WUA) memberships and with scientific communities through competitive grant
programs. Beneficiaries would participate in resource assessment, evaluate the need for new equipment,
genetic materials and production methods, and test new technologies. Farmers would participate in the
- 7 -



field testing and demonstration programs. Sustainability is another, more basic reason for the choice of a
bottom-up approach, since all economic agents need to develop the capability of responding
independently to market forces, if progress is to continue after the end of the project.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would concentrate its activities in Southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina which includes
Trebinje Popovo Polje, Trebinje Polje Ljubinje, Berkovici and Bileca (RS) and Dubrava Plateau,
Ljubuski, Capljina and Stolac (FBH). The population in the project area is estimated at 137,600. Of the
total, 75,900 are in FBH (Mostar 9,900 SE, Capljina 26,000, Ljubuski 28,000 and Stolac 12,000), and
61,700 are in RS (Trebinje 37,500, Ljubinje 5,500, Bileca 14,700 and Berkovici 4,000). The area has a
Mediterranean climate, which is favorable for early production of fruit and vegetables, has potential
on-farm irrigation resources and continues to have traditional trade links with neighboring countries. This
area was impoverished by the war but has the potential to respond readily to a revitalization program.
The focus of the project is thus on commercial agriculture as a mechanism for revitalizing the local
economy. Background information for the project area can be found in Annex 2.
The project would have four components: Market Integration, Private Agribusiness Support, Commercial
Farmer Support, and project management.
(1)    Market Integration Component (US$ 1.5 million)
This component would strengthen the linkages among farmers, private agribusiness producers and
markets that are necessary for a dynamic commercial agriculture and promote the development of local
farmer, processor and trader associations and new-style cooperatives.
(a)    Market development. The project would improve provision of market information to all
participants in the value chain. This would principally be achieved by assisting farmer organizations,
new-style cooperatives, processor and trader associations and govermnent agencies in developing market
information services and in techniques for dissemination of this information. Support would include
market study, training, workshops, publications, and technical assistance.
(b)    Quality Improvement. The project would assist in the development of quality specifications
and food safety that would be consistent with market opportunities and the legal requirements of the EU
and other intemational markets. It would assist in the development of optimum quality throughout the
production and marketing chain, which would be consistent with market opportunities and food safety
requirements in domestic and intemational markets and with producer resources. The project would
finance technical assistance for quality specifications and training programs in sanitary and phytosanitary
(SPS) and Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) subjects. The project would also finance
innovative quality improvement programs and certification systems for potential export products.
(c)    Cooperative and Association Development The project would strengthen existing and develop
new farmer groups, associations and marketing cooperatives to enable small farmers to effectively
participate in high-quality agricultural markets. These organizations can schedule production, collect
farmer output, grade and pack produce and provide market information, quality control, technology and
credit. The project would finance review and disseminate the experience of the more advanced groups,
associations and cooperatives in and outside project areas and in other countries, train farmner groups,
- 8 -



associations and cooperatives and support programs to establish and strengthen associations for
bee-keepers, fruit and vegetable producers and meat and dairy producers in the two entities. Cooperatives
could apply both for competitive grant funds and credit from commercial banks and MCOs and receive
periodic short-tern technical assistance and training.
(II) Private Agribusiness Support Component (US$ 4.06 million)
This component would strengthen the roles of private agricultural business so they could provide
effective demand for primary output and add value to agriculture products. This component has three
sub-components as follows:
(a)    Development of Bankable Proposals. The project would facilitate access to bank credit by
commercial farmers, processors, packers, traders, cooperatives and private wholesale markets to finance
profitable agricultural production, processing and marketing investments. Potential agribusiness project
participants would be required to meet project eligibility criteria for inclusion in the program and would
develop proposals to be presented to commercial banks for appraisal. In particular, the processors,
packers and traders selected would have to have sustainable market prospects back-linked to production
capabilities in the project area. The project would provide training and assistance in setting up and
training a group of economists and financial analysts to provide advice and assistance to farmers,
agro-processors and traders in preparing business plans to obtain loans from commercial banks.
(b)    Enterprise Credit. The project would provide funds to participating commercial banks which
would onlend to agriculture enterprises in the project areas. The funds would be repaid over a period of
10 years at an interest rate based on the six month Euro Libor rate. Interest rates will be assessed at six
monthly intervals and interest payments will be made half-yearly. The participating commercial banks
would assume the full interest risk and would on-lend to final beneficiaries on market terms.
Participating banks would be selected from an approved short-list of commercial banks that have passed
due diligence tests, meet project criteria, have expressed willingness to lend to agriculture, have branches
in the project areas and have staff available to be trained in appraising agriculture loans.
(c)    Technical assistance would be provided to participating banks for training staff in appraising
agriculture project proposals and the design of loan terms suited to agriculture and agribusiness.
(III) Commercial Farmer Development Component (US$ 6.7 million)
The project would focus on improved technologies to support market-led producer diversification,
specialization and intensification, facilitate access of commercial farmers to micro-credit and improve
reliability of water supplies.
(a)    Technology Development. Through a Competitive Grant Program (CGP), this sub-component
would support individual producers, community groups and agricultural processors to test and develop
technology appropriate to identified market opportunities. The Grant Program would build institutional
capacity of public and private rural service providers to support farmers, agricultural processors and
other rural entrepreneurs. The project would provide approximately 30 applied research grants, of up to E
18,500, for new crop varieties, improved farm practices, higher yields, improved quality, reduced
production costs, and value adding strategies for existing and new products and markets. It would also
support 30 technology demonstrations on farmers' fields and in assembly markets and processing
industries to test or transfer new and adapted technology clearly linked to defined market opportunities.
The ceiling on demonstration projects is £5,000. Technology demonstrations, to test or transfer new and
-9-



adapted technology, would be managed by farmer groups on members fields under the guidance of an
agricultural advisor. Processing demonstration would also be done in participating processing plants or
institutions in the project areas.
Demonstration projects proposed during project preparation ranged from new crop variety
demonstration, new livestock production technologies to new materials for packaging and processing and
improved quality of final products; greenhouse production; and improved packaging. Evaluation criteria,
found in the Competitive Grant Program Operations Manual, include environmental impact.
(b)    Micro-Credit. The project would facilitate access for individual small and medium-sized
farmers to finance for small capital improvements and working capital through existing eligible
micro-credit organizations (MCOs). Producers in the project area see lack of micro-credit as a major
constraint to increasing their commercial farmiing activities. It is anticipated these credits would be used
primarily for equipment, e.g. tractors, and agriculture inputs, e.g. seeds. Sub-loans by the MCOs for
agriculture-related activities in the project areas, would be in the range of 1,000 - 30,000 KM with the
MCOs assuming all of the risk. The project would also include provision for technical assistance to (1)
design, test and introduce micro-credit products more suited to agriculture, (2) to strengthen the capacity
of MCO's to appraise agricultural loans, and (3) to strengthen the capacity of MCO's to manage loan
portfolios with a higher proportion of agricultural loans. Terms of Reference for this TA can be found in
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
(c)    Irrigation Rehabilitation. The project would finance improvements in irrigation where these
would be used by private farmers to increase productivity and the quality of their commercial production.
It would involve redesign, repair and improvement of existing irrigation systems serving private farmers.
The improvements proposed in Lubushki and Trebinje would include (i) cleaning of main canals, drains
and removal of debris, (ii) repair of diversion weirs, structures, flood banks, and canal and drainage
channel banks, (iii) repair of gates at the main diversion, control and drainage structures, (iv)
improvement of access to control structures and to gates (v) improvement in outlets to farms and (vi)
assistance in water management and the formation of water users groups. The improvement proposed in
Dubrava Plateau would include development of water harvesting systems and fornation of water user
groups. The initial works proposed for each area would act as the catalyst to small farmers to improve
on-farm channels by ensuring reliable water delivery near to their farm gate. Irrigation investments
financed by the project would be designed to be economic by avoiding capital- and electricity-intensive
systems in favor of low-cost systems already in use in the project areas. The project would strengthen
capacity of existing water user associations in management of the on-farm irrigation system including
operation and maintenance and to assist farmers to form new effective self-financing water user groups.
(IV) Project Management (US$ 1.87 million)
The project would strengthen project implementation units in both the FBH and RS. It would increase
existing capability to manage day-to-day project activities and coordinate work with local
implementation units. The project would finance consultants, incremental staff, office equipment,
vehicles and other operating expenses related to the project.
- 10 -



Indicative            Bank-     % of
Component                      Costs     % of     financing  iBank-
.__ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ _   (USSM)  Total  (US$Mi)   financing
Market Integration                                   1.50     10.6      1.30      10.8
Private Agribusiness                                4.06      28.7      4.05      33.8
Commercial Farmers                                  6.70      47.4      5.35      44.6
Project Management Support                           1.87     13.2      1.30      10.8
Total Project Costs  14.13   100.0     12.00     100.0
Total Financing Required  14.13     100.0     12.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would build on the improved climate for private-sector activity created by the policy and
institutional reforms implemented during the transition period. Trade policy, for instance, is now based
on the use of tariffs, with few quantitative restrictions and no export subsidies. Further reform of the
tariff structure is needed to improve its internal consistency, but this will be addressed in the context of
negotiations for membership in the WTO. Direct subsidies to agriculture are limited, and government
intervention in commnodity markets is minimal. Floor prices apply only to wheat and mnilk, and there are
no controls on consumer prices for food products. Numerous anomalies in tax policy inhibit inter-Entity
trade, but these are being addressed in adjustment programs sponsored by the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.
The project's relationship with participating financial institutions would build on existing IDA programs
to reform banking laws, privatize and strengthen commercial banks and establish the legislative basis for
and otherwise strengthen micro-finance institutions. Private sector investments supported by the project
would also benefit from measures to improve the enabling environment for business activity under the
Business Environment Adjustment Credit. No additional policy or institutional reforms would be pursued
by the proposed project.
The project would support the establishment of grades and standards consistent with EU requirements as
a means to improve the quality of raw and processed agricultural goods produced in the project areas. As
a result of trade liberalization, domestic produce must now compete with EU produce in the domestic
market, not just in export markets. The quality of local produce must thus be improved as a matter of
survival, in order for local producers to reverse the decline in their local market share. Improved quality
is also needed for higher, more profitable prices and to allow participation in export markets.
The current implementation of privatization program has yet to determine the future use and ownership
of state-owned land controlled by agro-kombinats (AKs). The focus to date has been on resolving
restitution claims and disposing of agro-processing and other non-land assets of the AKs and
agro-processors. The legislative or procedural basis has yet to be established for deciding whether the
land now controlled by AKs will be sold or leased, to whom it can be sold or leased and on what terms.
Because of these uncertainties, AKs and ex-AKs would not be considered for project support; however,
private farmers leasing land from AKs would be eligible.
The project would strengthen the roles of WUAs in on-farm water management. In the past operation and
maintenance (O&M) have been the responsibilities delegated, in RS, to municipal authorities or AKs
and, in FBH, cantonal and municipal governments. Under the proposed project, WUAs would be given
some responsibility for O&M, including collection of water charges to pay for it.
- 11 -



The role of the water companies in Trebinje and Ljubuski would move from implementers to facilitators.
Many of the routine functions relating to canal networks would be transferred to the WUAs, with the
water companies' role being to provide technical advice, assist in planning and implementation and carry
out the 0 & M and management of the larger/strategic facilities and the more complicated engineering
tasks. The water companies would also be involved in the engagement and supervision of contractors for
all routine and annual maintenance tasks and in ensuring the maintenance of facilities of national interest,
such as flood dikes and main drains. This new approach would enable the water companies to reduce the
considerable financial burden they impose on municipal and cantonal budgets and become self-financing
in a very short time period.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target groups would mainly be small and medium-scale private operators - farmers, agro-processors and
traders of agricultural products. The project would also assist farmer cooperatives and processor and
trader organizations who can realize substantial benefits from participating in cohesive and effective
associations promoting their common interests. These objectives would also be pursued by encouraging
communities and producer groups to be proactive in pursuit of their economic interests, i.e., to critically
analyze their constraints, opportunities and required support and to increasingly manage their own
development. The targeting strategy would be to support only those communities and producer groups
that have both expressed the need for assistance and also shown the ability, in the case of producer
groups, to operate as member-oriented groups, such as water-user associations and new-style marketing
and/or processing cooperatives.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Periods of Implementation: The project would be implemented over a six-year period from FY
2004-2009. Project effectiveness is expected to be by July 2003 and the mid-term review would be by
June 30, 2006. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009 and the closing date would be
December 31, 2009.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: BH would be the borrower of IDA funds and would
onlend the proceeds to FBH and RS. It would also establish special accounts and make arrangements for
auditing. The Ministries of Finance of both entities would be responsible for channeling the IDA credit
proceeds to the Ministries of Agriculture from both entities, providing counterpart funding and later
repaying the credit.
The Ministries of Agriculture would oversee project implementation. For this purpose, they have
streamlined project management within their existing units. The RS government has an Agriculture
Project Coordination Unit (APCU) to oversee all externally financed, agriculture-related projects. The
SSCAD project would be managed by this unit with an additional provision for an irrigation engineer, an
agriculturist, a financial assistant and a monitoring and evaluation specialist to supervise the
implementation of the project. The FBH Minister of Agriculture assigned the management of this project
to the project management team of the existing Forestry Project Implementation Unit (PIU). As in the
RS, this project would share the director, financial manager and procurement officer, and the government
would also provide an irrigation engineer, an agriculturist, a financial assistant and a monitoring and
evaluation specialist to supervise the implementation of the project. During negotiations, it was agreed
that the Entity Governments would maintain PIU/APCU with qualified staff acceptable to IDA until
project completion.
In addition to being responsible for the implementation of the Forestry Project and the SSCAD, the FBH
- 12 -



PIU will also assume responsibility for the next forestry project, the Forestry Development Project. In
RS, in addition to WB-financed projects, the APCU is also responsible for the implementation of projects
financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) i.e., the Livestock and Rural
Financing Development Project.
The PIU/APCU would facilitate the operation of the competitive grant funds and oversee the funds
on-lent to commercial banks and MCOs under enterprise and micro credit sub-components. The
competitive grant funds would be managed jointly by both Entities under by a Joint Competitive Grant
Committee (JCGC). The committee would be composed of representatives of the private farming sector,
private agribusiness, the agricultural science community and the Entity ministries of agriculture in equal
number between the Entities. The chairperson and a deputy would be elected by the members of the
committee. The JCGC would be responsible for determining the priority problem areas, for. soliciting
applications for research and privately delivered technology demonstrations, and for approving grants,
work programs and budgets. It would review progress reports and direct the monitoring and evaluation of
the projects funded under the program. The PIU/APCU agriculturists from the two Entities would
constitute a two-member secretariat for the JCGC, coordinate the competitive review process and ensure
that procurement and disbursement procedures specified in the CG operations manual were strictly
followed. The secretariat would report administratively to the respective PIU directors and, on technical
matters, to the JCGC. An appointment of a JCGC satisfactory to IDA is a condition of disbursement for
this category.
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) and micro-credit organizations would be responsible for the
credit that would be lent to final beneficiaries. Eligible financial institutions are being short-listed and
invited to apply for inclusion in the project. Final selection will be made in association with the Entity
Governments on the basis of agreed criteria. All the PFIs and MCOs would sign subsidiary credit
agreements with respective Entity Government. All PFIs and MCOs would agreed (a) to support the
kinds of investments promoted by the project, (b) to the process of monitoring, plus an annual audit, as
the basis for continued project participation and access to the project credit line and (c) the government
agreed to allow PFIs and MCOs to set loan conditions according to best commercial and micro credit
financing practices. Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
The PFIs, after selection, would be allowed to set loan terms and conditions within the agreed guidelines
and according to commercial best practice. The PFIs would extend sub-loans to project financial
beneficiaries at market rates. The MCOs would set its interest at a level sufficient to cover the full cost
of lending (admfinistrative costs cost of capital, expected loan losses and inflation) and take into account
positive real interests prevailing in the financial markets. These terms and conditions would be reviewed
on a regular basis to reflect changes in market conditions. Banks and MCOs would be monitored
according to the Operational Guidelines. Monitoring of the final beneficiaries would be on a random
basis. The progress of all final borrowers would be followed through contact with relevant producer
associations and participating financial institutions.
Water management would be handled by various level of organizations as follows:
Vodno Podrucje Slivova Jadranskog Mora in Mostar, a public company for the Adriatic Sea Catchment
Area (on behalf of the FBH Government) and Directorate for Water Management (on behalf of the RS
Government) are responsible for assets of national interest, such as flood dykes, main drainage and
outfall structures, main weirs, water management and the quality and quantity of water use.
Vodoprivreda, a private company contracted by the municipality and canton governments in the project
area is responsible for the day-to-day operation of irrigation systems. Its tasks would include: main
- 13 -



system operation and maintenance, conclusion of agreements on water demand with the WUAs before
the beginning of the irrigation season, allocation of water at the beginning of the season, assistance to the
WUAs on preparation of their annual O&M plans, and preparation of documents for contractors. Its
responsibilities include collection and analysis of regular flow measurements and water-quality analyses.
Under the project, the Municipal Water Companies would provide technical advice, planning and
implementation assistance to the WUAs. They would continue their roles in the O&M and execution of
the large and strategic facilities and the more complicated engineering tasks. They would be involved in
the engagement and supervision of contractors for all routine and annual maintenance tasks and in
ensuring the maintenance of the facilities of national interest, such as flood dykes and main drains.
Water User Groups would be responsible for managing their own parts of the systems, including all of
their system from the weir off-take from the river down to individual farmer fields. The main Water User
Association for each zone would typically be made up of a number of small water user groups based on
secondary or tertiary canal systems.
Research and Agricultural Institutes. The project would draw on the existing capacity and experience
of agricultural research institutes both in FBH and RS, both for technical support to the innovative
research and demonstration programs of the project and for training. Researchers from these institutes
would be eligible, typically in groups, to apply for competitive grants to do research that would benefit
farmers in the project areas. In FBH, these institutes are the Agriculture Institute Sarajevo, the
Agricultural Institute in Mostar and three specialized veterinary institutions including the Veterinary
Center at the Veterinary Faculty of the University of Sarajevo and veterinary institutes in Tuzla and
Mostar. In RS, the institutes are the Agriculture Institute of Banja Luka, the Veterinary Institute at Banja
Luka, Faculty of Agriculture in Banja Luka and Faculty of Agriculture in Sarajevo.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During project identification, several alternative project components were considered but rejected for
inclusion in the project. These were (a) rehabilitation of the large public irrigation system in Popovo
Polje, (b) investment in the proposed household/farm garden water-supply project in the Dubrava
Plateau, and (c) investment in privatized AK agricultural and processing operations.
The proposed large existing public irrigation project in Popovo Polje appears to have sufficient potential
to justify carrying out economic and financial analyses at some time in the future, but inclusion at this
time in the project would be premature. First, the farrmland in the command area is currently largely
abandoned. Second, the plan to subdivide the existing state farm into farmer-managed blocks is not far
advanced. At a later date, this project should be looked at again after land restitution, subdivision and
sale is completed and when design, technical and social issues have been adequately addressed. In the
meantime, however, rehabilitation and upgrading of low-cost, informal irrigation systems would be
preferred for financing under the project.
Investment in the proposed water supply project in the Dubrava Plateau was rejected, primarily because
the provision of water as proposed would not meet the agricultural needs of the area. While the project
would supply secure water for household use on the plateau and would no doubt have significant benefits
for the plateau residents, it would not provide significant agricultural irrigation. A second major problem
is that the development costs are relatively high (US$ 1,100/capita). With high expected electricity tariffs,
- 14 -



operational costs would also be high and could well be above the capability of the beneficiaries to pay.
The proposal to include partly privatized AKs in the project was rejected for a number of reasons,
including the war damage, the technical obsolescence of their processing plants, land issues, and
weaknesses in ex-AK management. Rehabilitating the plant and other infrastructure would require
substantial investment, which is likely to be uneconomic. It would probably be more economic to invest
in facilities and equipment embodying new technologies tailored to the products demanded by today's
markets than to repair and adapt the old processing plants. The major land issue is that the ex-AK land
will not be owned by the AKs after privatization, but by the government. It is not yet clear whether and
under what terms this land will be utilized by the AKs or sold and/or leased to private farmers. This
uncertainty creates a significant risk for any investment in development of this land. Strong
entrepreneurial skills and knowledge of modem technological, financial and marketing techniques will
also be required by the managers of modem processing facilities, if they are to survive in the market for
packed and processed agricultural commodities. The abilities and orientations of current AK and ex-AK
managers, however, are typically not conducive to commercial management. For these reasons, project
investment in AKs or ex-AKs was rejected in favor of support for the development of fully private,
cornmercial trading and processing firms.
The proposed project aims to quickly reestablish sustainable and profitable agricultural production in one
region of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A relatively small geographical project area in southeastern Bosnia
was chosen by the government during identification primarily because of its potential to rapidly recover
and participate in demand-driven agriculture, horticulture and livestock production. It has suitable soil,
water and climatic conditions; adequate or rehabilitable local infrastructure; and straightforward access
to markets. The most pressing needs in the project area are investment to upgrade the existing facilities,
improvement of the management skills of private producers and new-style cooperatives, creation of
modem value chains to integrate them into the new markets for agricultural goods, and support for
producer organizations to provide services and promote producer interests. Increased capacity for
production alone will not be sustainable unless there is a strong and continuous connection to
fast-evolving local and export markets. Thus, the involvement of traders and processors in project
activities is understood to be a priority, and links among farmers, processors, traders and wholesale and
final markets would be strengthened under the project. To achieve the most effective design, the project
would involve private firms, cooperatives and other producer, processor and trader organizations in
activity design and implementation. To address poverty alleviation, the project would include especially
but not exclusively areas where internally displaced persons have returned, with the aim of reintegrating
them into productive, market-directed activities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
L atest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
The first agriculture project for FBH to FBH Emergency Fann       S            S
jump-start production, improve food  Reconstruction Project (March
security and create employment for the 96-June 98)
war-affected population. Project
assistance included provision of farm
machinery, livestock and strengthened
-15 -



animal health services (post-conflict
project).
An agricultural project of similar  RS Reconstruction Assistance  S           S
nature in the RS aimed to help   Project (October 97-March
war-affected families restart and  2001)
strengthen their private farming
activities. The project financed the
purchase of breeding cattle for small
private farmers to help rebuild the RS
herds for milk and meat production
(post-conflict project).
An SME project designed to re-start  Emergency Pilot Credit Project  HS      HS
private enterprise activity and  (Republika Srpska). April 1998
strengthen commercial banks in RS.
Follow-up SME project to support  Private Sector Credit Project  S            S
private enterprise activity and  ($10 m)
strengthen commercial banks in RS.
The Local Initiatives Project (LIP),  LIP II is currently under  S            S
Phases I (LIP l)and n (LIP nI.  implementation
Following up, LIP H would provide
some $21 million for micro-credit
organizations in both Entities. LIP n
builds on LIP I, which was rated HS
Other development agencies
USAID provided a $US232 million  USAID Business Development
credit line for private-sector, SME  Program: Project initiated in
development in both Entities.    1996
Of which 10% for crop and livestock
production and 22% for
agro-processing. Most agricultural
lending is in central FBH and RS.
KfW provided DM 17.2 million credit KfW Credit Line for SME
line for SME development in both  Development: Project initiated
Entities. KfW on-lends to commercial in 1998.
banks and also provides TA to
participating banks. Most agricultural
lending (only 5% of total loans) is in
northern Rerzegovina.
EU: Euro 5 million credit line for  EU Project: Credit Line for
agriculture, to be funded by the EU  Agriculture
and administered by a European
commercial bank.
- 16 -



IFAD project would be located in  EFAD-funded project
southern BH, but it will focus on
livestock production.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Although past projects to assist agriculture in BH and other transition economies succeeded in restocking
livestock and replacing equipment, they have not resulted in sustained growth of production, incomes or
employment because they did not provide effective technical support and did not link to processing and
marketing.
The Bank-financed Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project in Bosnia, while providing social benefits to
farmers, rarely led to profitable famning activities. Most farmers assisted by the project lacked both
technical knowledge to care for the type of livestock provided and funds to purchase proper feed.
Productivity and repayment rates were both low. The little surplus generated beyond household
consumption was not profitably marketable because of small unit size and lack of collection points and
market facilities. In this proposed project, the emphasis would be on support for small-to-medium-sized
commercial farmers and processors, rather than the poorest households, who nevertheless would be likely
to gain from the developing local agricultural economy.
A second lesson is that the previous projects did not have time to adequately consult beneficiaries and
match their specific needs. Financial institutions also did not participate in selection of beneficiaries and
formulation of lending arrangements. The proposed project has been designed with the participation of
the beneficiaries and lenders. Strengthening the capacity of farmers and local, private agro-processors
and traders to evaluate their needs is one of the major activities of the project. The appraisal mission
reviewed 75 business proposals from commercial farmers, processors and cooperatives located in RS and
FBH. Potential participating banks and MCOs were consulted during project preparation on financial
arrangements, the criteria to be used in evaluating loan applications from final beneficiaries and training
of their staff.
A third lesson learned in Bank projects in general is that cost recovery is feasible and desirable.
Profitable project activities and investments and, thus, the ability of beneficiaries to repay loans would be
required for loan approval under the project. The commercial agriculture and agribusiness components
would aim to ensure repayment by focusing on measures to improve the productivity and quality of farns
and processors, strengthen market links and raise farm incomes. Careful loan appraisal and close
monitoring of borrower progress can strengthen the prospects for profitable investment and timely loan
repayment.
A fourth set of lessons learned for competitive grant schemes in several countries is that (a) total
commitment from the government and the managing organization to the concept of competitive grants is
essential; (b) extensive consultation with potential participants is necessary to ensure awareness,
ownership and enthusiastic participation; (c) the proposals may initially be small and poorly focused but
over time there will be improvement as the applicants and recipients become more aware of the benefits
of participation; (d) project quality gradually improves as experience and awareness of the value of
accurately articulated proposals for successful competition becomes accepted; (e) small management
units are more popular than large and bureaucratic units (f) transparency in decision making is essential,
and (g) close monitoring and auditing of grants to ensure strict adherence from the start to the rules of the
program sets the framework for future participants, reducing subsequent implementation issues.
- 17 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The State Ministries were consulted during project preparation, and they are in full support of the project
design, objectives and components. They have approved the arrangements to establish the Joint
Competitive Grant Commnittee.
The ministries of agriculture of FBH and RS fully support the proposed project. Both ministries actively
discussed the project design, objectives, and project location, and each appointed a project preparation
team to work with the mission and made arrangements for project management. The Ministers of Finance
of FBH and RS indicated their full support for the project. They also approved the JCGC approach for
Competitive Grant Program. Consultation meetings with potential beneficiaries were held in Trebinje,
RS in December 2001 and in Mostar, FBH in January 2002.
The project preparation teams, including the Minister of Agriculture of RS and the Deputy Minister of
Agriculture of FBH, were at the respective consultation meetings. In both cases, the meetings were
attended by about 50 people, representing various cantonal and municipal authorities, cooperatives,
farmers, private companies, agro-processors and agricultural institutions. More than half of the attendees
were farmers or representatives of agribusinesses and cooperatives. Prism Research staff and the staff of
the Ljubuski Water Management Co. were also at the Mostar meeting. The project preparation teams
presented the proposed project's main objectives, designs, components and timing. The team leader for
each Entity component presented the concepts and preliminary activities of each component. The
participants explicitly expressed appreciation to the IDA team for having them participate in the project
preparation and having the project in the proposed area, which previously has not had a development
project. They also raised a number of issues, including credit, interest rate, agricultural and processing
technologies, training, and marketing. All of the issues raised have been considered during the
preparation of the project.
Other consultation meetings were also conducted by consulting teams for social assessment and
environmental studies. In addition, a workshop was also held to discuss the competitive grant scheme.
These meetings were attended by representatives from various stakeholder groups.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA involvement in this project would have significant value added: (1) It has already brought
intemational experience and expertise in identifying problems and in doing the initial design of project
components and will provide further technical expertise to work with government preparation teams
during project preparation. (2) IDA expertise on the quality requirements of intemational and regional
markets and specifically on EU standards has helped project design and would assist implementation. (3)
The IDA team's emphasis on assessing the risk and the need for cost-benefit and profitability analysis
has improved project design. (4) The team's emphasis in this project on supporting fully private sector
activities, rather than those of AKs or imperfectly privatized ex-AKs, and on the linkages throughout the
value chain, would result in a more dynamic agricultural response. (5) Intemational experts would bring
new knowledge and also mobilize unapplied local research knowledge of the key adaptations that can
improve local agricultural and small-scale irrigation technologies. (6) Coherent knowledge of up-to-date,
market-relevant processing technologies, which is generally lacking in-country, would be provided. (7)
The IDA team's emphasis on training financial institution staff in agricultural project analysis and
beneficiaries and beneficiary-support organizations (e.g., cooperatives) in project preparation, would
result in sounder project activities and a more pro-active approach by financial institutions. (8) Finally,
the IDA's role in bringing the Entity govermments into agreement on a common strategy is important, and
its catalytic role in helping other intemational donors channel resources into the project area could be
- 18 -



critical.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$16.25 million; ERR = 29.2 % (see Annex 4)
C Cost effectiveness
C) Other (specify)
Economic analysis has been carried out for the individual production models and for project investment
in irrigation rehabilitation and technology development as a whole, using constant 2002 border prices.
All investment, together with physical contingencies minus taxes, has been taken into account in
estimating the economic costs of the project.
International price projections were used to estimate farngate economic prices in 2002 constant terms for
traded inputs and outputs. Economic farmgate prices for grain, fertilizer and livestock products are based
on international price projections, adjusted for international and national trade margins and transport and
handling costs. Border prices for principal products and inputs can be found in a table in the project file.
Economic prices for non-traded goods are estimated using the standard conversion factor of 0.866. Based
on the above assumptions, investment in various activities under the project would produce estimated
ERRs ranging from 14% to 136%, all of which exceed the cost of capital of 10%. In total, the project
investment in irrigation rehabilitation and supporting technology and market development would produce
an estimated ERR of 29.1% and NPV of KM 27 million for FBH, ERR of 29.6% and NPV of KM 5.5
million for RS and ERR of 29.2% and NPV of KM 32.5 million for the project. These analysis indicate
that the proposed investment in irrigation development and rehabilitation and supporting technology
development is economically viable.
Sensitivity analysis has been carried out for all sub-,components to evaluate the effect on the project ERR
to changes in major variations in the costs and benefits of the project. The results show that the economic
viability of each cormponent is not very sensitive to price reductions and cost increases in all cases.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 10.65 million; FRR = 33.4 % (see Annex 4)
Incremental benefits from the irrigation development have been calculated on the basis of the whole farm
model developed during project preparation. A range of livestock, horticulture and field crop activities
showed positive returns to investment. Annual net farm family benefit after financing have been
calculated over a 10 year period for the incremental irrigated areas in each Entity. The financial rate of
return and net present value (FRR and NPV) measurement for irrigated land and supporting technology
and market development investments are summarized in Annex 4. The relative high rate of return to
investment in irrigation and technology and market development reflects the relatively low cost
rehabilitation as compared to green-field development of irrigation systems. It also reflects the potential,
given access to reliable irrigation, to rapidly improve the productivity of agricultural systems in the
relatively warm climate and fertile soil of BH.
The FRR of investment in irrigation rehabilitation and supporting of technology and market development
are estimated 33.4% and NPV of KM 21.295 million for the project, FRR of 33.8% and NPV of KM
21.95 million for FBH and FRR of 31.5% and NPV of KM 3.4 million for RS.
- 19-



Fiscal Impact:
The government contribution to the project would be 15 % of project financing, and may be in the form
of co-financing by municipal and cantonal level governments and beneficiaries. Proceeds of the IDA
Credit would not be used to pay taxes. All taxes on goods, services and salaries would be considered as
part of Government contribution.
3. Technical:
Funding of agricultural research in BH is negligible and research institutes particularly in FBH have lost
a substantial proportion of their infrastructure and staff capacity, however, a core capacity remains in
both Entities and there is strong interest amongst the research institutes to collaborate to meet new the
threats and opportunities associated with market-led agriculture development in BH. Experience
elsewhere in the Balkans indicates that, given the past emphasis on production-oriented research, mostly
in association with agro-kombinats, scientists need re-orientation to focus on applied research on
small-scale commercial farming issues. Provision has been made for the necessary training and program
monitoring and evaluation to ensure this outcome, with a particular focus on preparing younger scientists
for research in a market economy.
The technology required to improve the competitiveness of BH agriculture largely exists in the region,
however, its translation to the needs of small-scale commercial agriculture will require further on-farm
technology testing and demonstration. The existing extension service cannot support his level of
technology transfer and will require strong support from the scientific commnunity. The competitive
grants program would follow bid evaluation procedures that require research-extension linkages and
favor cross-institutional and Entity scientific linkages in research implementation.
Improved product quality will require improved testing regimes and quality linked incentive systems to
ensure continuous supply. Increasingly, these product standards and testing regime must meet EU
standards. The project would provide funding to support them, however, their implementation will
require closer collaboration between sometimes competing institutions and the clearer definition of the
respective responsibilities of the leading laboratories within the Entities. Conceming food safety issues,
this will almost certainly require the establishment of a central food safety authority and the designation
of reference laboratories for specific tests.
4. Institutional:
The competitive grants program requires the establishment of a joint-Entities CGC and close
collaboration between scientific establishments in both Entities for effective applied research. There are
an increasing number of cross-Entity committees that are working effectively and the BH agriculture
research community has created its own initiative in the form of a scientific conference to start rebuilding
historic linkages. With these precedents, the cross-Entity collaboration necessary for JCGC success is not
considered to be an issue for the project. This approach was supported by both the State and the Entity
Govemments.
Some new-style cooperatives have been established and are working effectively; however, the support
legislation requires further development and farmer cooperatives remain open to management abuse.
Other donors are addressing the legislative issue, however, the project would have to ensure
comprehensive training for founding members and managing committees of new cooperatives
participating in the project and closely monitor their subsequent commercial activities.
Channels for Enterprise and Micro-Credit. There are several potential channels for delivering enterprise
and micro-credit. The first is to use only financial institutions that the bank is already working with (or
- 20 -



proposes to work with) under its three existing projects (LIP I/II, RS Private Sector Credit and
Import-Export Credit). Linking to these projects would avoid the need to identify and screen credit
partners as this has or would have already been done. Not all of these institutions are active in the project
area, however, and those that are may lack the inclination and capacity to engage in agricultural lending.
It may thus be necessary and desirable in any case to involve institutions which have established a
successful lending program for small and medium-scale enterprises, and/or foreign-owned commercial
banks. Their involvement in the project would be subject to satisfaction of normal due diligence
assessments by the Bank and criteria set out for selection of participating financial institution (detailed in
Operational Guidelines). Invitations were sent to eligible banks and MCOs for expression of interest.
There are three commercial banks and four micro credit organizations which are already comrnitted to
participate in the project and are going through eligible qualification and selection process.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The IDA Credit would be lent to BH, which would onlend the proceeds to the Federation and to
Republika Srpska. The Credit would be implemented by the Forestry PIU in the Federation and the
Agriculture PCU in RS under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Water Management in the Federation and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry in
Republika Srspka. The main task of the Federation PIU and the RS APCU is to prepare new projects as
well carrying out annual planning, financial management, contracting and supervision, monitoring of
repayments, reporting and evaluation during the entire project implementation period. The Directors
reports to the Ministers of Agriculture in the respective Entities. In RS the Minister is also the chairman
of the "managing board".
Funds Flow.
The total project expenditures for RS and the Federation would be US$14.13 million (equivalent), of
which SDR 8.7 million (US$12.0 million equivalent) would be financed from the IDA credit, and
US$2.13 million from two Entity Governments. The counterpart contributions would be transferred to a
"government" account managed by the PIU/APCU.
Two IDA Special Accounts would be established (one for the Federation and one for the RS), and both
these Special Accounts would be held in commercial banks acceptable to IDA. Entity government would
open a Project Account with an initial deposit equivalent to one-quarter of the first year counterpart fund
requirement in this account. Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations.
Flow charts would form the basis for the project accounting procedures, which would describe in detail
all work tasks involved in the flow of funds and accounting. The administrative procedures for the flow
of funds would be established by the PIU/APCU and documented in the Project Accounting Procedures
to be included in their Financial Management Manuals. Each work task would be linked to a specific
individual in the PIU/APCU or in the Ministries.
4.2 Project management:
The PIU/APCU would carry out all aspects of project management. Among other tasks, they would liaise
with ministerial levels for necessary government approvals, coordinate with local governments and
beneficiaries, manage competitive grant funds by coordinating technical and management issues with the
Joint Competitive Grant Committee (JCGC) and beneficiaries, participate in the planning and design of
infrastructure rehabilitation, assist agro-processors, traders and commercial farmers in applying for
commercial bank loans, coordinate policies and implementation of micro-credit with the MCOs, and
manage the recruitment of technical assistants. The units would also be responsible for collection of data
- 21 -



for monitoring and evaluation, provision of progress reports to IDA and preparing for audit.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting. The PIU/APCU would design and implement a single
monitoring, evaluation and reporting system for the project. They would monitor and evaluate the CGP
and credit components according to the specific guidelines in the operation manuals. The monitoring and
evaluation specialist from PIU/APCU would design key performance indicators based on Monitoring
Tables in the PIP, Block A, section 2 and Annex I of the PAD. Baseline socio-economic data would be
collected from households at the beginning of project implementation to establish bench-marks for future
impact evaluation. Progress reports would be produced by PIU/APCU and sent to IDA annually. A
mid-term progress report, including a full M&E analysis, would be sent to IDA by April 30, 2006 to form
a basis for a mid-term review to be carried out no later than June 30, 2006. The PIU/APCU would make a
broad assessment of the project implementation in a draft project completion report to be submitted to
IDA no later than six months following the completion of the Credit disbursement.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Procurement Assessment of the SSCADP was performed by a Bank Procurement Specialist in
November 2002 and the project is classified as high-risk. This is due to lack of effective legislation to
ensure a transparent and fair procurement process. Because of the war and shortage of local funds, the
country has had little procurement experience and has relied on the donor procedures to procure goods
and services. To minimize these risks, IDA procurement procedures will be used for procurement of
goods and services under the project. Action plan has been drawn to strengthen capacity of the project
implementation units in staff recruitment, training and development of monitoring and reporting systems.
IDA procurement specialists at the resident mission in Sarajevo and PAS assigned to the project will give
training and supervision to the P1U/APCU staff during project start-up and implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Country Financial Management Risks: A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for BH
was carried out in 2001. The draft CFAA Report from August 2001 identifies weaknesses in public
sector budgeting, accounting, reporting, and auditing. The draft CFAA Report also highlights an
environment of pervasive corruption at all levels of the economy. In view of the above, the Report
recommends having a medium to longer-term goal of mainstreaming project management into Ministries
and Departments, and of consolidating implementing units and refraining from the creation of new ones.
In view of this, the Report concludes that it remains appropriate to maintain the current "ring fencing" of
financial resources in Bank projects in order to provide the appropriate fiduciary safeguards.
The draft CFAA Report also identifies the country's weak banking sector. Domestic private banks are
ill-liquid, undercapitalized, exposed to non-performing loans and poorly managed. There are still too
many commercial banks in BH, especially in the Federation, given the existing economic potential and
the modest credit potential, which in turn are the result of a very low capital base due to significant
economic and financial risks. Unless they are privatized, state-owned banks will be unable to resolve the
problems they inherited from the previous system. Newly established private banks face other kinds of
problems such as poor quality assets and the threat of insolvency, both the unhealthy result of insider
relationships. As a result of this situation, the banking sector is undergoing a process of consolidation.
However, taking the whole situation into consideration, parts of the banking sector should be seen as
high risk, and caution is indicated when selecting banks for the project's credit lines.
The governing system in BH is highly complex and as well as the Office of the High Representative
(OHR) comprises several government levels with appropriate legislative and fiscal powers. These are the
- 22 -



State of BH (State); Federation Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation); Republic of Srpska (RS); Brecko
District (self-administrative, overseen by OHR), and ten cantons (Canton) of the Federation. Below the
canton level, there are traditional local govemments - cities and municipalities.
Finally, the unsettled political situation and general govemance problems presently affecting BH taken
together with (i) the weaknesses in project financial management and lack of capacity in implementing
units and (ii) the weak banking system mean that it is not recommendable to introduce report-based
disbursements into the BH portfolio at this stage.
Financial Management Arrangements: The assessment to determine whether the financial management
arrangements within the PIU/APCU are acceptable to IDA has been completed in January 31, 2003. The
recommended actions were taken and have been satisfied the Bank's fiduciary financial management
requirements. These are (a) PIU/APCU have prepared project accounting procedures for cash flow and
accounting, (b) computer accounting system has been installed at the Federation PIU and (c) the
Financial Management Manuals have been prepared.
Audit and Financial Management Reports (FMRs): The State Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BH
has a three-year contract (2001-2003) with an international auditor for the audits of WB-financed
projects. During negotiations, an agreement was obtain that the Government will include the Small-Scale
Commercial Agriculture Project in the list of projects audited under this master audit agreement.
According to the master agreement, the audited project financial statements would be sent to the Bank
within six (6) months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Projects managed by the two
implementing agencies in the past have submitted satisfactory audited financial statements on time. The
delegation also agreed to the format of the quarterly FMRs.
Project Implementation Capacity: The shortage of financial management staff in both PlUs makes it
difficult to maintain a fully satisfactory separation of duties. This is a problem common to most of the
small implementing units in BH. In regard to this project, the staffing levels of the PlUs are satisfactory
on condition that the issue of separation of duties remnains in focus and that the financial management
staff does not take on tasks that would exacerbate the situation. During negotiations, it was agreed to add
a financial assistant position to each PIU/APCU to assist in the financial management.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Project components with potential for negative environmental impacts are:
Component II Sub-component B - Enterprise Credit
Component HI Sub-component A - Technology Development
Component HI Sub-component B - Micro-Credit
Component m Sub-Component C - Irrigation Rehabilitation
With the exception of Component m.C, the environmental impacts of the other sub-components cannot
be determined at this time as the activities which would be funded would only be identified during
project implementation by the financial intermediary, making these category "Fl" sub-components. The
Fl for Component II Sub-component B - Enterprise credit - would be commercial banks. The Fl for
Component m Sub-component B - Micro-credit - would be existing micro-credit organizations with
experience with other similar World Bank-financed projects. The implementation unit for Component III
Sub-Component A - Technology Development - would be the Joint Competitive Grants Committee.
Project documents would provide the Fls with directions for the mechanisms and responsibilities for
- 23 -



environmental screening, review and monitoring of proposals. The project operations manual includes an
appendix on "General Guidelines for Identification and Analysis of Environmental Impacts of Project
Loan Activities". The project operations manual also includes an appendix with guidelines specific for
identification and analysis of environmental impacts of proposed grants, "Competitive Grants Program
for Technology and Market Development."  The FIs would be trained to evaluate loan and grant
applications based on the Bank's Environmental Guidelines for Financial Intermediary Loans. The grants
and micro-credits are expected to be small and no significant environmental impacts are anticipated.
Investments under Component m Sub-Component C - Irrigation Rehabilitation, have been identified, and
are the subject of an environmental assessment. The direct environmental impact of the irrigation
rehabilitation sub-components is expected to be small to insignificant. The project would rehabilitate
existing small irrigation facilities, which are unlikely to create adverse environmental impacts. However,
minor impacts of the project could potentially come from: (i) agro-chemical pollution and surface water
contamination, resulting from use of pesticides and fertilizers and increased circulation of irrigation
water; (ii) soil erosion associated with existing practices of agricultural production; (iii) indiscriminate
dumping of excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains and structures during
construction and maintenance; and (iv) environmnental damage caused by contractors during construction
activities. Livestock are not seen as potential environmental threats as they would be held in small
numbers and by widely distributed private farmers, mostly under loose housing conditions. Their
excrement would be collected for field fertilization.
On the other hand, the project is mitigating these environmental risk through: (i) cleaning of main canals,
drains and removal of deposited debris and other unwanted materials; (ii) repair and improvement of
flood banks, and canal and drainage channel banks; (iii) promotion of improved land use practices and
farming methods; (iv) modernizing and improvement of agricultural product processing; (v) removal of
areas of stagnant and standing water through cleaning of drainage canals and drainage systems; (vi)
reduction of areas of potential erosion hazard around structures, diversion weirs, outfalls from structures
(viii) improvement of water management by providing better access to control structures and to gates,
improvement of outlets to farms and the formation of water users groups and other assistance in water
management; and (ix) strengthening local capacities in environmentally sustainable approaches to
agricultural development through training and capacity building. The risk of agro-chemical pollution will
be mitigated through (i) careful assessment of the skills and awareness of farmers applying and granting
of subloans, and (ii) training of farmers and extension staff about environmental risk mitigation in
agriculture. The project would provide training programs in farm and business management, cooperative
management, agricultural marketing, water management, and participatory monitoring and evaluation.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A separate EA report for the irrigation rehabilitation sub-component of the project was conducted. An
environmental management plan (EMP) is included in the EA. The EMP, which includes a monitoring
program, describes the roles and responsibilities for implementing the EMP.
Although it is not expected that the "Fr' components of the project would finance any category "A" or
"B" sub-projects, sample EMPs and directions for their use are included in the guidelines for loans,
credits, and grants described above.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: October 30, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
- 24 -



report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During project preparation communities and other stakeholders were consulted through a series of
workshops and field visits. Preparation of the EA for the irrigation rehabilitation sub-component included
public consultation on the EA as well as field visit consultations on the EA to individual farmers in the
project region. During design and preparation work for rehabilitation of irrigation canals, communities
and other stakeholders would be consulted if there is any need for mitigation measures and EMP.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP for the irrigation rehabilitation sub-component includes a monitoring program. The monitoring
plan includes parameters that are required for monitoring for example, what parameter is to be
monitored, where, when, why, how the monitoring is to be conducted; the cost; and the responsible party.
Factors to be monitored include chemical content of water in the vicinity of project interventions;
discharge and water levels at critical points in the irrigation system. The responsible parties are water
company, municipal government and water user associations, depending on location and ownership of
the facilities. Under the project, US$246,000 has been allocated for monitoring programs. The guidelines
for FIs advise the FIs on the need for, and system for monitoring impacts. Each PUJ would include a
professional monitoring and evaluation specialist.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Although it is general knowledge that the social situation across BH is difficult, due to the continued
mutual mistrust among elements of the various ethnic communities, there is little detailed information
about how this works out on the ground in the proposed project areas. The social assessment carried out
in March-May 2002 looked in depth at these issues and confirmed a low level of trust among farmers and
other stakeholders. Such low trust is partly a consequence of the war, but it is also due to the fact that the
project areas were left out of the main channels of aid following the war, and people therefore question
whether the IDA-financed project offers real benefits. This situation would be seriously considered and
addressed through an appropriate communication strategy (project workshops and media) in the early
phases of the project.
The social assessment developed information on the basic conditions of farm families and highlighted a
number of constraints faced by them. Among the main problems, beneficiaries stressed the unresolved
issues of produce placement, aging population in the villages, high fragmentation of agricultural land,
lack of a legislative and regulatory framework, and lack of start-up capital. The project would address
these issues in various components (for instance, lack& of start-up capital through the micro-credit
component; the issue of produce placement through the market integration component, etc.). The
project's social development outcomes also include the retention of young adults in the villages through
the increase in productive activity in farming and agribusiness and the creation of multi-ethnic producers
associations.
Social assessment also examined the data of ethnic composition in the project area and found that, even
though there are four significant ethnic groups in the project area, each of them lives primarily in a
specific area. For example, the majority of the population in Trebinje, Fatnicko and Dabrasko project
areas is Serb, while the population in Ljubusko area is Croat. Only in Dubrava Plateau is there a mix of
Bosniac, Serb and Croat. The project is designed so that people in the project areas would benefit from
the project, regardless of their ethnicity. They would be able to use water, apply for credit and participate
-25 -



in the research and development programs. The project would help them form inter-ethnic cooperatives,
producer associations and water user associations, where members from different ethnic groups would
work together on commercial and democratically bases. On the Dubrava Plateau, there already are quite
advanced vegetable cooperatives whose members are from all three ethnic groups. They share water from
water storage ponds and have built a school where children from the three ethnic groups study together.
Effort has already been made to form a multi-ethnic water user association in Dubrava Plateau. The
project plans to assist farmers in forming water user associations in other areas. During implementation,
the management system would be transparent and inclusive. A monitoring system to keep close track of
the inter-ethnic issue would be developed for the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project would provide training programs in farm and business management, cooperative
management, agricultural marketing, water management, and participatory monitoring and evaluation.
The development of producer associations and new-style cooperatives would be an essential ingredient in
the development of efficient small-scale commercial farming. These and other stakeholders and
beneficiaries would participate in the choice and design of irrigation and other investments.
An irrigation system improvement plan has been developed using the preparatory work carried out with
the support from municipal engineers. These plans would have been discussed and agreed with
stakeholders, as they would be responsible for investments below secondary system level. After the plan
is finalized and decisions have been reached, final designs and bidding documents would be prepared, in
conjunction with the farmer groups and water user associations.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations were consulted during the project survey and the social
assessment, both of which were designed to assess constraints and needs. During project implementation,
grants would be provided on a competitive basis with the objective of forming and enhancing the
effectiveness of farmer, trader and processor organizations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
IDA invited local and international NGOs, including women's groups, to participate in the project design
and implementation. It is expected that the NGOs would work closely with the beneficiaries of
competitive grants in support of new technology (i.e., organic production, small-livestock production,
vegetable grading and processing) and business opportunities, especially for women.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Farmer and producer associations groups would be trained in participatory monitoring and evaluation
strategies and would assist in developing the framework for their implementation. Monitoring and
evaluation staff at each PIU/APCU would take the lead in incorporating social development indicators in
beneficiary and impact evaluation.
A monitoring and evaluation staff at each PIU/APCU would take the lead in incorporating social
development indicators in the project's database. Examples of social indicators could be: number of
people working in the project area, disaggregated by gender and age; number of hectares cultivated; type
of cultures; numbers of agricultural machinery; revenues; numbers and type of farmers associations; etc
- 26 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
Policy    -                               Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 436)                                    (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        (9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 437)                              (9Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  * Yes (7)No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      ( Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environment assessment was carried out to assess potential environmental impacts of the irrigation
rehabilitation component of the project. Mitigation measures provided under the project to address
potential negative environmental impacts include:
Provision on a continuing basis of extension and advisory services, as well as specific training in
fertilizers and pesticides as to proper application techniques, timing and handling of residues. This
training in careful use of fertilizers and chemicals, and the continuing extension and advisory services to
disseminate best practice is expected to keep the negative impact of increased input use to a minimum.
Regular training and continuing advice in improved irrigation management practices would
reduce soil erosion within irrigation schemes and consequently reduce the environmental impact of
sedimentation on rivers.
During project design and supervision, contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or
mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris would be displaced in an orderly manner in
approved paths or in landfill or dump sites, rather than dumped indiscriminately. Reuse of excavated
materials would be specifically directed, where suitable, limiting the need for old and new quarries.
Where possible, existing quarries would be used for required additional materials. Contractors would
also have to restore landscape to quasi-original condition after completion of rehabilitation works and
after use of quarries. The details of environmental precautionary clauses for contractor works would be
included in the bidding documents for proposed rehabilitation and improvement works. If these are
implemented and enforced well, there should be no or minimal impact on the environment. Cantonal
inspectors of the Ministry of Environment would carry out environmental monitoring during and after
construction.
Environmental management plans have been prepared which include mitigation measures for impacts
related to the construction and operation phases of the project. Environmental monitoring plans have
been prepared which include:
As part of the overall environmental monitoring, pesticides, chemicals and fertilizer levels would
be measured at selected and representative sites within the main irrigation systems. Measurements would
take place three times per irrigation season (March, May and September) by cantonal environment staff.
-27 -



They would also analyze the samples with portable field kits. International thresholds would be used that
would signal need for corrective actions. If the residue levels in the river water are above the allowable
norm for longer periods, corrective measures would have to be implemented. These would include
increased training and extension activities and possibly reductions in the use of inputs.
Soil erosion would be assessed by Cantonal environment inspectors, especially in identified
problem areas. Measurements would take place during both the irrigation and the rainy season. If the
level of soil erosion reaches levels where it would cause damage to river systems and downstream
irrigation systems, training efforts would be intensified.
Contractors' activities would be supervised by the local municipal or consulting engineers and
monitored by Cantonal environment inspectors. Any damage done by a contractor to the environment
would have to be rectified at their expense.
Project Impacts in International Waters. The project team has assessed the project components in the
context of OP 7.50 and concluded that OP 7.50 applies to the project, as the project area receives water
from the Neretva river, which is an international waterway as described in paragraph 1 (a) of OP 7.50.
However, the project essentially involves rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities. It does not involve
works and activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or alter or expand its scope
and extent to make it appear a new or different scheme. Given the nature of works envisaged under the
proposed project, plus improved management of water uses and improved maintenance of the systems by
project-supported water user associations, the project will not adversely affect the quality or quantity of
water flows to other riparians. On the contrary the project will have positive impacts. The survey data
indicated that at present there is already adequate level of biological minimum flow at the international
border with Croatia (i.e., biological minimum flow at bridges in Mostar of 50 m3/sec). The team
concluded that the project would not have any impact on quantity or quality of water flow to Croatia.
Consequently, the project falls within the exceptions to the notification requirement of the Bank's policy
on International Waterways set forth in paragraph 7(a) of OP 7.50. According to the agreement between
the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina on July 11,
1996, on regulating of Water Management Relations, it was concluded that notification to Croatia is
exempted since the notification requirement stated in Article 4 of the Agreement is to be used by the
parties only in case of extraordinary or sudden pollution.
- 28 -



F. Sustahnabiflty and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of project activities and investments in the commercial agriculture development
component would come from the profitable commercial activities undertaken by experienced and trained
participants, such as farmers producing higher-value marketable output and processors and traders
participating profitably in local and export markets for upgraded agricultural goods. Some of the linkages
and supports for production and marketing would be sustained in the course of successful production and
marketing activities (e.g., quality control of farmer output by grading in processor and cooperative
procurement). Other supports would come from the continuing activities of farmer, processor and trader
associations (e.g., market and technical information and training), which would be sustained by member
contributions and perhaps NGO or EU funds. Still other support would come from the continuing supply
of credit by bank and micro-credit institution lending programs developed under the project. These
institutions would build on previous experience in agricultural lending and augment it under the project.
The supply of credit would continue after the project at near-project levels because project funds would
revolve and because high enough interest rates would cover credit risk, which would itself be reduced by
training in project design and analysis.
Irrigation and market facilities would be kept in good working condition by (i) cost recovery, at least
sufficient to cover operating costs, and (ii) commnitment by the government to fund the maintenance and
operating costs of any wholesale market facilities provided as a public good. The latter is unlikely to be a
significant percentage of either the MAFWE or the local government budget.
2. Critical lRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation l1Aeasure
From Outputs to Objective
BH does not develop an adequate           N        The government is pursuing efforts to liberalize
trade-policy framework and does not                trade and open up regional markets. Trade
reestablish trade with Croatian and other          agreements with Croatia, FRY and Macedonia
regional markets.                                  have been concluded, and similar agreements
are expected with Albania, Bulgaria and
Romania. The importance of these agreements
is underlined by the fact that FRY and Croatia
constitute about 30% and 20%, respectively, of
BH's exports.
Sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS)          M        Under the EU-supported consultative task
legislation is not prepared and                    force, a SPS working group and a veterinary
promulgated.                                       working group have completed papers laying
out the priorities and the structure of future
phytosanitary and veterinary regulatory
programs. Comprehensive SPS legislation
would be in line with EU requirements.
To develop farmer associations and        M        There are a dozen cooperatives operating in the
cooperatives, farmers may not be willing           project area which provided good examples. A
to cooperate in groups and there may not           few fruit and vegetable cooperatives
be sufficient rural leadership or                  established with the help of donor support and
supportive local administrations and               two beekeepers' associations are being
NGO partners.                                      established. The project would finance
cooperative development and training of rural
- 29 -



leaders and administrators by farmer
group/cooperative specialists.
Credit is either not available or it is   M        Participating commercial banks and micro
allocated by administrative procedures             credit organizations would take both credit risk
rather than freely operating credit                and repayment. They would be allowed to
markets.                                           operate independently in accordance with
commercial bank principles. In addition, the
risk would be minimized by requiring a World
Bank no-objection to the first three loans and a
continued World Bank no-objection on loans
over 250,000 euros.
Capacity may not exist (Banks, MCOs)      N        The banking sector has recently been privatized
for commercial credit and micro-finance            and more international banks have entered.
delivery and beneficiaries may not accept          Sufficient strong banks and MCOs have
commercial credit.                                 expressed interest to participate in the project.
Acceptance of commercial credit by
beneficiaries would depend on the profitability
of their operations. Farm models developed
under the project show that returns to
investment are attractive.
Lack of legal framework (land,            M        Private sector investments supported by the
enterprise, tax and finance) and policies          project would benefit from measures to
(denationalization, privatization) to              imnprove the enabling environment for business
support private small and medium scale             activity under the Business Environment
farming and commercial agricultural                Adjustment Project. Banking laws and
activities.                                        privatization have strengthened commercial
banks and established the legislative basis for
and otherwise strengthened micro-finance
institutions. The legal framework for land lease
has been established. Land under the
Ago-kombinats is being rented out to small
private farmers. A GTZ managed Economic
Law Reform project is working on land and
cadastre laws.
Competent research organizations or       M        There are several competent research institutes
scientists do not exist to bid for adaptive        and scientists in BH; the Agriculture Institute
research contracts; line ministries and            in Sarajevo, the Agricultural Institute in Mostar
municipalities do not provide support              and three specialized veterinary institutions in
when needed and new technologies are               Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar for FBH and the
not adopted by target beneficiaries.               Agriculture Institute and Veterinary Institute of
Banja Luka for RS. Entity governments are
interested and supportive. Demonstration
programs are planned to promote successful
programs to the target beneficiaries.
MCOs are not able to provide              N        Participating MCOs are limited to ones that
cost-effective agricultural credit to small        participated in the First Bank-financed LIP I;
farmers.                                           they have extensive experience and track
records of delivering credit effectively to small
borrowers.
- 30 -



Water user associations, cantonal         M        WUAs/farmers groups presently own most
governments and municipal water                    tertiary and on-farm systems and collect fees
companies do not perform effectively.              for O&M. The main canals are owned by
O&M is not done or is done poorly.                 cantonal governments, which have agreed to
Communities do not provide counterpart             maintain them either directly or in
contributions.                                     collaboration with the WUAs and/or the
municipal water companies. Medium-term
viability of WUAs will depend on the
profitability of their members' farm operations.
From Components to Outputs
Shortage of marketing knowledge and       N        Marketing skills are available locally but need
skills in the private sector.                      to be upgraded to the new environment. Local
entrepreneurs used to trade with neighboring
countries and are interested to re-establish the
trade.
Commercial sector and government          M        The project would assist in developing and
capacity do not exist to implement                 implementing standards and quality for specific
standards/quality.                                 commodities which have demonstrated
potential for export and for niche markets.
New cooperative laws are not approved     N        A new State Cooperative Law passed the
by the government.                                 House of the People in September 2002. While
it is not perfect, it is a substantial improvement
on previous Entity cooperative laws.
Agricultural enterprises not interested in  N      The appraisal team assessed the demand for
commercial credit and few viable                   commercial credit by inviting proposals for
enterprise investments available.                  appraisal. There were 75 proposals from
commercial farmers, processors, enterprises
and cooperatives in FBH and RS, which
presented the business plans prepared
according to criteria for evaluation set by the
mission, including criteria for financial
analysis. This exercise confirmed that there is
sufficient demand from the commercial sector
for the type of enterprise credit that would be
available under the project. Analysis showed
that the majority of the proposals have good
FRRs.
Interested, prudential financial          N        Invitations for expression of interest were sent
institutions do not exist in the project           to eligible banks and MCOs. Three commercial
area.                                              banks and four MCOs are interested in
operating in the project areas.
The number of applications for            N        Extensive prior publicity, including stakeholder
competitive grants not large enough to             workshops, combined with the lack of
ensure that selection criteria applied             government research funding should assure
under CGF results in the selection of              broad-based interest in the program.
only high quality proposals.
The number of qualified experts required  N        Provision has been made for the recruitment of
for the Peer Review system may not be              peer reviewers from neighboring countries, if
- 31 -



available.                                         local supply proves inadequate.
Under the existing academic culture, it   M        CG workshops would explain the peer review
might be difficult for applicants to accept        process. Only experienced reviewers would be
as fair the stringent critique of their            employed and their work would be periodically
proposals, which are a feature of Peer             monitored for fairness and accuracy.
Review and are accepted elsewhere as a             Applicants would not know the identity of their
fair means of sharpening and improving             reviewers, but would have access to the
proposals and judging their quality.               reviewer's comments, though without recourse
to appeal. The Operational Guidelines, which
would be available to applicants, would fully
explain the steps of the reviewing process.
Farmers may not borrow for working        M        Access to credit for working capital is
capital and small investment in farm               identified by farmers as a major constraint for
improvement at rates offered.                      agriculture development. The prospect of
profitable investment would provide sufficient
incentive for farmers to borrow, according to
the experience of existing MCOs.
Beneficiaries may not support the         M        A training program would be designed to
improvement in water supply.                       educate farmers about WUAs and to persuade
them that this organizational structure would
help them develop a sustainable institution to
operate and maintain on-farm irrigation.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None has been identified.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of IDA and an Entity,
(b) For the Entity referred to in paragraph (a):
(i) a Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and said Entity;
(ii) the Operational Guidelines have been adopted by the said Entity satisfactory to IDA;
(iii) the Project Account has been opened by the said Entity and initial amount of US$50,000
equivalent has been deposited into such account.
la. Disbursement Conditions
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) Categories allocated to Federation or Republic of Srpska unless:
(i) A Project Agreement between the Association and the respective Entity has been
executed;
(ii) A Subsidiary Credit Agreement between BH and the respective Entity has been
executed;
(iii) The Operational Guidelines have been adopted by the respective Entity;
- 32 -



(v) The Project Account has been opened by the respective Entity and initial amount of
US$50,000 equivalent has been deposited into such account; and
(v) a legal opinion has been furnished by the respective Entity;
(b) PFI Sub-loans and MCO Sub-loans unless the PFI Sub-loans and MCO Sub-loans have been
made in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Guidelines; and
(c) Competitive Grants unless the JCGC has been establihshed and the Competitive Grants have
been made in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Guidelines.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
At negotiations assurances have been obtained from BH, FBH and RS as follows:
(a) The PIU/APCU agreed on the fornat of the quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs).
(b) Two IDA Special Accounts would be established, one for the Federation PIU and one for the RS
APCU. Both these Special Accounts would be held in commercial banks acceptable to IDA.
(c) FBH and RS, each would maintain a project account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. FBH would deposit US$70,000 and RS would deposit US$40,000 in its account and
would replenish an equal amount in such account on a quarterly basis.
(d) FBH and RS would carry out measures outlined in the environmental management plan in a timely
manner and would include adequate information on monitoring of these measures in the progress report.
(e) All participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) and Micro Credit Organizations (MCOs) would sign
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the relevant Entity Giovemment.
(f) The governments agree to allow PFIs and MCOs to set loan conditions according to best commercial
and micro credit financing practice.
(g) All PFIs and MCOs agree to provide sub-loans to eligible beneficiaries in accordance to Operational
Guidelines.
(h) The Governments would maintain P1U/APCUs with qualified staff acceptable to IDA until project
completion.
(i) The Governments would maintain JCGC until the completion of the project with adequate qualified
staff and resources required for implementation of the CGP.
(j) The Governments would maintain Operational Guiclelines until the completion of the project, and
(k) A mid-term review would be undertaken no later than June 30, 2006.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
- 33 -



D 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
ApelYu Jaissd                     oseph RGoldberg                 Neil Simon  . Gray
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-34-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Accelerated private sector growth                                                          * Macroeconomic and political
and employment                                                                               stability;
* Continued progress with the
reforn agenda;
Project Development           Outcome i Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
To develop private, market    In project ares...            * Market Studies;             . Regional security;
integrated commercial agriculture  * Marketed outputs;       . Living standards surveys;   * Continued progress with
in selected low income, high  . Income and asset levels;     . Stakeholder assessments;   banking reform;.
potential areas of southem BH  . Agricultural productivity.  * Canton and municipality     * Fair privatization and land
statistics;                   denationalization; and
.  Mid-term and final project  . Minimum corruption.
evaluations.
Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1) Market Inteoration
Comoonent
a)  Market development        * Required market information  * Market studies;            * Adequate legal framework;
and analysis is available;                                  . Reestablished trade with
Adequate market informaUon for  . Principles of the market  * Beneficiary assessments;     Croatian coastal markets;
farmers, processors and traders,  economy broadly understood and
supported.
b) Quality Improvement
commodities.~   * General                 * Guidelines of grade and     . SPS Legislation prepared and
Agricultural commodibes with    General principles of price by  standard documents.        promulgated.
improved quality, safety and  grades and quality are
standards.                    established.
c)  Producer and Trader                                                                     Freswligt        meaei
Associations.                                               * Project M&E system;          . Farmers willing to cooperate in
and                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Supportive local administrations;
Sustainable, equitable and     Number and diversity of farmer,  * Association Reports.     * Sufficient rural leadership and
market-oriented farmer        water user processor and trader                              economic acumen;
cooperatives, water user groups  associations registered and                                Sond    acumen;
and processors and trader     functioning.                                                 c      Sound legal framework for
associations are formed.      . Existence and use of                                       cooperatives and associations;
transparent, accountable,                                    . Supportive NGO partners exist.
demand-driven decision making
process in these associations.
2) Private Agribusiness
SuDDo
- 35 -



a) Development of Bankable    . Number of investment proposals *Banks and MCO reports;    . Credit is allocated by market
Pronosals                     submitted to MCOs and                                      not administrative.
commercial banks.             -Project Monitoring system.
b) Enterprise Credit
Medium-sized private male and
female commercial farmers and  . Number of investment proposal . Bank and MCO reports;   . Capacity exist (Banks, MCOs)
small and medium-sized        approved by MCOs and                                       for commercial credit and
processors and trader have    commercial banks.            . Project monitoring and      micro-finance delivery;
access to bank and MCO credit                              evaluation system (M&E).      . Beneficiaries accept
for profitable integrated                                                                commercial credit.
agricultural production, processing
and marketing.
c) Technical Assistance and
Trainin .
To commercial Banks, MCOs and . Guideline and actual practices                           . Legal framework (land,
agribusiness.                in agriculture loan appraisal and  . Project monitorng and  enterprise, tax and finance) and
business plans are developed;  evaluation system (M&E);     policies (denationalization,
* Sufficient commercial bank and                           privatization) support private
MCO staff acquired requisite skill - Course assessments.   small and medium scale
commercial agriculture.
3. Commercial Farmer
DeveloDment.
a) Technoloev Development and
extension.
. Viable technologies developed
Improved technologies widely  and adapted to local environments . Applied research reports;  . New technologies successfilly
available to support market-led  and markets;               . JCGP reports;              adopted by target beneficiaries;
agricultural diversification,  . Extent of technology adoption;  . Bank and MCO reports.  * Competent research
specialization and intensification. . Market volume and price of                         organizations or scientists exists
selected commodities.                                      to bid for adaptive research
contracts;
. Line ministries and
municipalities provide support
when needed.
b) Micro-Credit
Individual male and female   . Repayment of performance;   . Report from MCOs;           . MCOs can deliver short and
farmers have access to        . Number of beneficiaries    . Project monitoring and      medium term agricultural credit
micro-finance for working capital receiving credit;        evaluation system (M&E).      cost effectively.
and small investment.         . Incremental employment.
c) Irrieation Improvement
Improved availability of water  . Number of irrigation facilities . Surveys, inventories and  . Water user association
supply.                       rehabilitated and number of water technical reports;       ownership and management of
users associations established.  . Project M&E including    irrigation utilities;
stakeholder analysis;         . Investments are viable and
. Financial and technical audits.  benefits broadly shared;
. Communities are willing and
able to provide counterpart
contribution;
- 36 -



Project Components /          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                 Outputs)
Inputs:
1) Market Integration
Component.
a) Market Development
* Market studies and analysis;                                                           . Marketing skills locally available;
USS0.465 million              .Mre     tde
* Marketing and market economy                                            .              * Commercial enterprise
training;                                                                                interested.
. Linkage to commercial
enterprises and markets.
b) Quality Improvement.
. Product quality/packing
development and testing;      US$0.6 10 million.            * Quality and food safety    * Commnercial sector and
documents.                    government capacity exists to
.Farmn to market food safety and                                  .                    implement standards/quality and
quality control system.                                                                  food safety.
. Food safety and HACCP
training.
c) Producer and trader
Associations
. NGO facilitation of community
meetings and institution
development;
US$0.425 million              . Association and cooperative  . New cooperative laws are
. Rural leadership training;                               reports.                      approved by the govemment.
. Grants to producer and
commodity association, water
management groups and
cooperatives.
2. Private Aarlbusiness
SUDDOrL
a) Development of Bankable    USS0.029 million
proposals.                                                 * Financial institution reports. . Agricultural enterprises
interested in commercial credit.
b) Enterprise Credit
* Commercial credit fund;
. Protocols with commercial  US$ 4.0 million.
banks;                                                     * Semi-annual bank r          * Viable enterprise investments
Semi-anual ank reorts. available;
. Business planning and financial                                                        . Interested, prudential financial
analysis.                                                                                institutions exist in the project
area;.
- 37 -



c) Technical Assistance and   USSO.028 million.           . TA report, course evaluation  . Competent, motivated staff
Trainine                                                  and project monitoring progress  available for training.
reports.
3. Commercial Farmer
Development.
a) Technolopv Development.
. High quality of Technology                                                           . The number of applications for
identification, testing and                                                            grants may not be large enough to
introduction.                                                                          ensure that selection criteria
. Applied research reports;  applied under CGF results in the
. Peer reviewers to ensure quality                                                    selection of only high quality
of proposals.                US$ 1.229 million.           . JCGP report.               proposals;
* Scientific training in adaptive                                                      . The number of qualified
research and benefit analysis;                                                         experts required for the Peer
Review system may not be
available;
. Enterprise and farmer to farmer
based extension                                                                        . Under the existing academic
culture it may be difficult for
some applicants to accept the
stringent critique of their
proposals, which are a feature of
Peer Review and are accepted
elsewhere as a fair means of
sharpening and improving
proposals, as well as judging their
quality;
. Potential applicants may be
skeptical of the fairness of the
organization and management of
CGF.
b) Micro-Credit.
. Micro Credit fund;         US$ 2.0 million.             . MCO reports;               . Farmers borrow for working
capital and small investment in
* Protocols with existing MCOs;                           . Progress reports.          farm improvement.
. Training in agriculture    US$ 0.062 million
micro-credit management.
c) Irrieation Rehabilitation.                             . Procurement and engineering  . Beneficiaries support the
US$3.403 million.            contracts.                   improvement in water supply.
*-Rehabilitation of canals, water
wheels, pumps and ponds;
* Support water user
associations.
4. PIU operatine costs.      US$ 1.875 million.           . Incremental operating costs and
specialized procurement and
financial management activities.
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Background Information
Project Area. The project area is located in southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina and includes Capljina,
Ljubuski, Mostar, Neum and Stolac Districts in FBH and Trebinje, Bileca, Berkovici and Ljubinje
municipalities in RS. This area is within the Neretva and Trebisnjica River Basins.
Geological setting. The southeastern area of BH has a unique karstic landscape, which is characterized
by fissured limestone. In the karst areas, surface flow is irregular with rainfall infiltrating through
fissures and underground channels to reach the groundwater. The limestone provides high permeability
but very little storage. This gives rise to small changes in recharge rates and large water table
fluctuations. Groundwater potential is thus limited and abstractions in these areas are mostly directly
from rivers, springs and seasonal wells.
In the karst catchment areas (such as Dubrava plateau), sink holes are common and are found throughout
the agricultural areas. These provide drainage for surface water during the rainy season but, since they
have limited capacity, surface ponding occurs during periods of high rainfall. In the lower plain areas (
Poljes), large quantities of water accumulate during the winter months and can take a long time to drain
away without engineered drainage channels.
Neretva and Trebisnjlca River Basins. The Neretva river is 250 km long and, although the flows are
generally abundant throughout the year, some tributaries usually have minimal flows at higher altitudes
at certain times of the year. The Trebisnjica river originates from a large spring in the karst area close to
the town of Bileca. Throughout its length, it moves both above and below ground, depending on the time
of year and the volume of flow. The sink holes through which the lower flows in the river pass have
limited capacity and, thus, during the rainy season, surface flows and flooding are common in some
areas.
Topography. The topography is characterized by graduated falling of the land from the high mountains
at the back of Herzegovina toward the Neretva and Trebisnjica Rivers and further on from their valley to
Adriatic sea. This topography allows a partition of the Herzegovina area into four altitude-based climatic
zones. Mostar, Stolac, Capljina and Neum are in the low climatic zone (0 to 100 m of altitude). Ljubuski,
Trebinje are in the middle climatic zone (from 101 to 300 m of altitude), Bileca and Ljubinje are in the
medium-high climatic zone (from 301 to 700 m of altitude) and Tomislavgrad, Livno, Prozor, Nevesinje
and Gacko are in high climate zone (701 m and more). Most of the project area is located in the low and
middle climatic zones; only two municipalities in the RS are in the medium-high area above 400 m.
Soils. Soil types are composed of red, alluvium, Rendzine and brown soils on limestone and Quagmire
soils. Red soil is excellent for grape, fruit and vegetable growing with irrigation water. Alluvium soil is
excellent for intensive agricultural production, if there is sufficient water to maintain the humus and if
better mineral fertilizers containing phosphorus and potassium are used. Rendzine soil has low
productivity, despite good physical and chemical characteristics. Deep rendzine, though, is excellent for
fruit and grape growing but needs protection against erosion and requires mineral fertilizers (especially
phosphorus and nitrogen). Brown soil on limestone (with low phosphorus and only moderate potassium
and nitrogen) is fairly active biologically and is very good for grape-growing. Quagmire soil can be used
- 39 -



after hydro-technical melioration, i.e., drainage, deep plowing and phosphate and nitrogen application.
This soil is not suitable for intensive grape-growing but is suitable for annual crops, when there is
continuous improvement in soil quality.
Climate. The temperature is favorable for agriculture. In FBH, the average annual temperature is 14.8oC.
The temperature in March is around lOoC, so this month is favorable for planting early vegetables. The
warmest months are June, July and August, and the average monthly temperature in May and September
is high, as well, exhibiting the usual characteristics of the Mediterranean climate. In RS, the majority of
the project areas are situated at low and medium elevations, which have Mediterranean climate, with only
the higher parts of Bileca and Berkovici having continental to continental-mountain climate. For the low
and medium elevations, there are about 321 days with average mid-day temperature over 5 C from
February to November and 221 days above 10 C from the end of March to November.
Rainfall. Average yearly rainfall is 1,550 mm and ranges between 1,400 and 1,660 mm, depending on
the area. Minimum yearly rainfall ranges between 350 and 760 mm, and maximal between 2,020 and
2,400 mm. Most rainfall is in autumn and winter. In the growing season, rainfall is much lower (between
374 to 434 mm, on average), so drought typically occurs in summer, most often from the beginning of
July to the end of August and, on average, lasts about 50 days. Thus, during summer, when crops' need
for moisture is high but rainfall is very low, irrigation is essential for productive agriculture.
Irrigation. Irrigation has been practiced for over 100 years in informal irrigation systems and, since the
WWII, in more formal state farm irrigation systems. Many of the larger state systems are now not
functioning, due to damage to the infrastructure and to the demise of the state farms. Data on the
informal systems is incomplete, as only limited assistance was provided to them by the water institutes.
Within FBH, there are a number of areas where irrigation has been practiced and continues to have
potential. Most of these derive their water from the Neretva River or its main tributaries, although some
utilize groundwater and springs. Ljubuski Polje was the largest single area under irrigation before the
recent war and covers an area of about 5,850 ha of which about 3,000 ha are irrigated, mainly by gravity.
Although there systems are still functioning, many have fallen into disrepair due to war damage and
inadequate maintenance. The average elevation of the Polje is 120 m and, in spite of the provision of
flood protection dikes, about 300-500 ha of land is affected by occasional floods from the Trebizat River.
Along the course of the Neretva River, mainly between Mostar and Capljina, there is a significant
amount of small-scale irrigation. This relies upon the high groundwater table in the river alluvium and
water is abstracted both by hand pumps and small petrol and diesel driven pumps. More recently, larger
private irrigation schemes have been established using redundant state farm equipment. As the border
with Croatia is approached, the extent of cultivation and irrigation increases although in the lower
reaches, drainage becomes more important with the land being cultivated on beds and in polders.
In other parts of the project area within FBH, small-scale irrigation is practiced using spring flows and
seasonal sub-surface streams in the Karst system. These areas are not widespread although where
irrigation is practiced, such as on the Dubrava Plateau, the rural communities gain significant benefit
from early crop production.
Farm Structure. The farm structure in the project area is similar to that in many parts of ex-Yugoslavia,
a combination of large farms previously socially owned and many small private farms. The socially
owned or formerly socially owned farms comprise large orchards and extensive grain hectarage, while
-40 -



the small private farms are typically very small (less than one ha) and composed of 5-8 plots separate and
sometimes distant from each other. During the war, the state-farm orchards were destroyed or neglected
and have not been reconstructed. The farming system on small farms is mostly subsistence with a mix of
crops and livestock. Only a few progressive farmers, who have knowledge and skill, have surplus
production. Trading companies emerging from the recent privatization of HEPOK have stated to organize
agricultural production on leased parcels of 10 ha or more.
Population. The population in the project area is estimated at 137, 600 persons. Of this, 75,900 are in
FBH (9,900 in Mostar SE, 26,000 in Capljina, 28,000 in Ljubuski and 12,000 in Stolac) and 61 700 are
in RS (37 500 in Trebinje, 5 500 in Ljubinje, 14 700 in Bileca and 4 000 in Berkovici). In FBH, about
25% of total population lives in rural areas, while in RS more than 50% of the population is rural. In both
cases, there are many people in urban places who are minor land owners and cultivate their land as an
additional activity. The number of people dependent on agriculture has therefore not been defined or
measured effectively. Since there has also been no population census since the war, even the estimates of
the total population and its age and sex composition are subject to an unknown degree of error.
The typical farmer of the project area has only about 1 ha of land, structured as follows: wheat (0.2 ha),
maize (0.1 ha), alfalfa (0.2 ha), meadow - natural or artificial (0.4 ha), vegetables (0.1 ha). and some fruit
trees. He has usually two cows, two pigs and 10 chickens, or one cow, two pigs and 10 sheep. The farmer
earns very little from this farming system. Plant production is mainly for subsistence, and animal
production is mixed, small and extensive and provides little surplus beyond household needs for cash
income. Only a small number of farmers make a good living from farming. This is especially true of
Herzegovina compared to other regions.
Crops. Before the war, a wide variety of vegetables were grown in the region, and early crops had a
market advantage. Farmers tended to sell individually with the main buyers along the Adriatic coast.
Currently, vegetable production is low, and there is only a limited surplus. Seed potato was an important
crop in the Nevesinje area before the war and is still produced but to a lesser extent. State farms
dominated fruit and grapes and exported their production to central processing facilities in Mostar. These
processing facilities were owned by HEPOK, a large integrated state farm and group of processing and
trading enterprises, which has now been broken up. Table grapes and some fruit were sold directly to
Adriatic tourist centers and there was some export. Smaller market surpluses from the private sector were
collected by farmers' cooperatives and state-owned enterprises and combined with their own production.
Since the war, there has been a significant reduction in area under fruit and grapes.
Cereals. Wheat, barley, rye and maize are grown in the area, but to a lesser extent, and mainly for home
consumption. Yields are low due to the extensive technology in use (unsuitable cultivars for the region,
hand sowing of own seeds and little fertilizer application). The production of fodder crops is only for
own feed needs. The Bileca mill could absorb larger wheat surpluses, but cereal surpluses were usually
bartered within the farming community for other crops.
Vegetables. The main vegetable crops are potatoes, peppers and tomatoes, but cabbages, onions, garlic,
beans, peas, carrots and watermelon are also grown. Production is mostly for own needs and or local
markets. Vegetable production is more profitable than other crops, but local production now only meets
about 50% of the total consumption of the region. The remainder is imported from outside the area.
Areas that are well known for vegetable production are Capljina for paprika, tomatoes, cucumbers and
lettuce, Ljubuski for new potatoes, tomatoes, watermelons and other melons, Stolac for new potatoes,
watermelons and other melons, and Mostar for new potatoes, watermelons and other melons. Despite the
potential, intensive vegetable production is rare, and there are only a few (15) greenhouses, which
- 41 -



typically have 150-200 m2 of surface. Some movement toward vegetables is coming from former tobacco
producers, who are producing tomatoes, potatoes, lettuce, paprika and water-melons.
Fruit and Wine. In RS, orchards and vineyards, which were established in Popovo and Trebinje, have
been totally destroyed. Before the war, 225 ha of orchards, 100 ha of vineyards and 75 ha of grapevine
motherbed were planted in Popovo Polje. There were also big state orchards in Berkovici and Ljubinje.
Currently, there are only a few small private orchards in the whole project area, in addition to the
sporadically-planted fruit trees planted around most farmers' houses. At the beginning of 2002, new
apple and sour cherry orchards were planted on community land rented to a private firm ("Vocar") - 80
ha Berkovidi and 150 ha in Ljubinje - but the firm lacks the working capital to satisfactorily maintain
these orchards. There are also several small private orchards in Trebinje municipality (peaches and
apples). In total, fruit production is far below the regional demand, and most fruit consumed is imported
from outside the region. Wine grape growing is traditional in the region, mostly for wine making.
In FBH, some fruit-growing exists in former HEPOK areas, including peaches, nectarines, hops,
strawberries, plums and apples grown in small orchards. Cultivation of cherries and sour cherries was
attempted in the Eastern Herzegovina district of Stolac. There is also some production of peaches and
nectarines in Capljina and Stolac. Thus, there is a continuing tradition of peach and nectarine production,
and this will continue because of the superior horticultural conditions. Plantation Capljina is the most
important producer.
The project area has a tradition of grape growing and wine production.. Production is based on Zilavka
and Blatina varieties. During the last three decades, production of table grapes has been organized in
former HEPOK areas. Before the war, production of wine grapes in the project area was organized in big
State wineries, which also organized grape collection. Only small quantities were produced in
rudimentary, private wine cellars. In the last 10 years, a few small, but moderate-quality wineries were
organized in Ljubuski, Stolac and Citluk.
Tobacco. The Trebinje area (Ljubinje, Trebinje and Berkovici) has a long tradition of tobacco growing
and produces a crop with a distinctive taste. In the past, tobacco had well organized production and
markets. Tobacco used to be an important industrial crop with the production being collected by the
state-owned enterprise Agro Koop, which both provided the inputs and bought the crop at guaranteed
prices. Tobacco is also grown in Ljubuski area. Former tobacco producers have turned toward production
of vegetables, such as tomatoes, potatoes, lettuce, paprika and watermelons.
Livestock. Before the war, cattle-breeding and production was organized in FBH on two cattle farms
(Mostar and Capljina), four hatcheries (two in Mostar, one in Neum and the last in Ljubuski) and on
family farms. Production on family farms is low, with average annual production of cow's milk at 1,255
liters per cow, sheep's milk at 15 liters per ewe, eggs at 103 per hen, beef at 118 kg per cattle, lamb and
mutton at 8.5 kg per sheep, pork at 104 kg of pork per pig. Fish production, organized in modern cages
and in pools, produces 60-200 kg of fish per m2 in cages or 600-2,000 kgs per ha of water surface.
Apiculture in the project area produces about 50 kg of honey per beehive.
The livestock husbandry in RS is semi-intensive. The main products are: milk, fresh cheese ("gruda") and
mature cheese. Only poultry production, and in several cases, hog raising, are on intensive level. Poultry
raising has recovered somewhat since the war (20 poultry farms in Ljubinje). There are new facilities for
processing of white meat ("Topiko" - Ljubinje), and one-day-old chicks (O.Z.Z. "Ljubivit") in Ljubinje,
with a capacity of 25,000 one-day-old chicks per week. There are also two large, successful private
factories processing meat ("TDS" d.o.o. Trebinje and O.O. "Rogan" Trebinje) and two dairy stores
- 42 -



(VIPEX", capacity 3,000 liters/day; and "PADENI" with capacity of 2000 liters/day).
Other Aspects. There are trading companies in the FBH project area specializing in selling agriculture
inputs and also trading in fresh agricultural products. For primary products, the usual trading in the
project areas is at local markets. The biggest markets are in Capljina and Vrapcici. Fruit and vegetables
are primarily imported, because domestic production is inadequate in both quality and quantity.
Some refugees have returned, noticeably unemployed former industrial workers in the agricultural sector.
There has been some development of land leases. HEPOK land is being leased out by local
municipalities. Privatized enterprises that own improvements on the land (orchards, vineyards and
greenhouses) are typically able to lease the land, with four-year leases rather than the earlier prevailing
two-year leases. Brcko District, has recently offered state land under long-term lease for orchard
development. Agrokoop in Ljubuski is being privatized. The growth of land leasing could help to
ameliorate the problem of small holdings, since profitable farmers will be able to expand.
There has been considerable progress with the privatization of HEPOK's processing plants. All of the
HEPOK West enterprises are now fully privatized, including HEPOK Winery, Ljubuski, HEPOK Citluk
(vinery and fruit juice) HEPOK Plantations Capljina and APRO FLORAMI (greenhouses) in Mostar and
Capljina. There are also a number of new agricultural enterprises emerging in the project area, including
a cooperative vegetable (esp. potato) cleaning, grading and packaging enterprise in Capljina, which has a
new cool-store. This was established by the new Association of Cooperatives with Norwegian assistance.
In technology, there is currently no organized extension in the project area, except a small program
funded by the EU. There are some individual extension initiatives (e.g., by AGROHERCEGOVINA
dLo.o, a private company). The FBH government turned over extension, research and land management to
the cantons, which plan if funding is provided to develop appropriate technology programs in
cooperation   with    the    agricultural  institutes  in    Sarajevo   and     Mostar.
B. Project Description
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.50 million
(I)    Market Integration Component.
This component would strengthen the linkages among farmers, private agribusiness producers and
markets that are necessary for a dynamic commercial agriculture. The key linkages between farmers and
final consumer and industrial markets are through intervening linkages along value chains with private,
commercial processors, packers, wholesale markets and traders. The development of local farmer,
processor and trader associations and new-style cooperatives would be an essential ingredient in the
development of an efficient commercial agriculture.
(a)   Market Development The project would develop and improve provision of market informnation
to all participants in the value chain. This would be achieved by carrying out market studies and analyses
and distributing the results and by providing training appropriate for a market economy to farmers,
traders, processors and officials, especially in marketing and management. Various potential providers of
market informnation would be approached to ascertain their interest in providing information in areas
-43 -



where they could play a useful role. These potential providers include producer associations,
cooperatives, trader organizations and government agencies. The project would improve provision and
use of market information for all participants and would principally be achieved by assisting farmer
organizations, new-style cooperatives and processor and trader associations in developing market
information services for their members and in techniques for dissemination of this information. Support
would include market studies and market development initiatives funded through competitive grants,
technical assistance, training, workshops and publications.
(b)    Quality Improvement. The project would assist in the development of quality specifications
and food safety that would be consistent with market opportunities and legal requirements in EU and
other international markets. A major theme would be quality improvement from production to markets.
The project would help producers attain optimum quality levels consistent with targeted markets and
producer resources and profitability through technical assistance and training programs. The concepts of
food safety would be introduced through training programs in sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) and
Harzard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP). The project would finance innovative quality
improvement programs and certification costs of potential export products.
(c)    Cooperative and Association Development Small farmers can effectively participate in
commercial activities through producer associations or cooperatives. The project would strengthen
farmer groups, associations and marketing cooperatives to enable small farrners to effectively participate
in high-quality agricultural markets. These organizations can schedule production, collect produce, grade
and pack according to market demand. The associations can be centers for technical and market
information and can coordinate among producers, product collection centers and potential purchasers.
They can also be conduits of quality control, production technology and credit. Collection centers can
provide volumes and quality to traders. Three different commodity groups were identified as having the
potential for development in the project area through the development of producer associations. These
are honey, fruit and vegetables and meat and dairy products.
The project would finance the review and dissemination the experience of the more advanced groups,
associations and cooperatives in and outside project areas and in other countries, train farmer groups,
associations and cooperatives and support a pilot program to establish and strengthen associations for
bee-keepers, fruit and vegetable producers and meat and dairy producers in the two Entities.
Cooperatives and associations could apply both for competitive grant funds and credit from commercial
banks and MCOs and receive periodic short-term technical assistance and training.
The development of groups, associations and cooperatives in the project areas can be dramatically
accelerated, and a significant contribution could be made to achieving the objectives of the project, if
these groups and cooperatives were (i) guided by relevant experiences gained elsewhere and (ii)
supported in their initial development by specialists experienced in group activities and cooperative
business support. The project would provide technical assistance in cooperative and association
operations, training and market development.
The project would provide financing for cooperative development, which could be used for (i) reviewing
the experience of the more advanced groups and cooperatives in the project areas, but also for providing
relevant reference cases from other parts of Bosnia and other countries, (ii) group/cooperative specialists
who would support, guide and provide training to farmer groups, associations and cooperatives in the
project areas, and (iii) a pilot program, in setting up bee-keeper associations, fruit and vegetable producer
associations and meat and dairy producer associations in the two Entities. Specialists working for
organizations that support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) would have the right basic
- 44 -



know-how and experience but would need some additional training in group dynamics and cooperative
organization. Provision is made in the project for technical assistance from an intemationally experienced
cooperative development specialist.
As specified above, associations and cooperatives are eligible to apply for competitive grant funds for
market studies and experimental programs to improve quality and standards. The latter could finance the
acquisition of specialized processing technology and equipment. They could also apply for bank credit
under the project, as specified in Component II (below). Cooperative/association TA would be shared
between the two Entities and three types of cooperatives would be supported under the project as a pilot
program.
Project Component 2 - US$4.06 million
(II). Private Agri-Business Support Component
This component would strengthen the role of private agricultural business to provide effective demand
for and add value to agriculture products. It would be done through improving their ability of
agribusinesses, including larger commercial farms, to obtain bank credit needed for improvement of
equipment and technology through improving their ability to develop bankable proposals, providing
funds through commercial banks for loans to agriculture enterprises, and training commercial bank staff
to effectively evaluate agriculture proposals. This component has three sub-components as follows:
(a) Development of Bankable Proposals. The project would facilitate access to bank credit by
commercial farmers, processors, packers, traders, cooperatives and private wholesale markets to finance
profitable agricultural production, processing and marketing investments. The objective would be to
increase the quantity and value of agriculture-related production in the project area. The project would
provide training and assistance in setting up and training a group of economists and financial analysts to
provide advice and assistance to farmers, agro-processors and traders in preparing business plans to
obtain loans from commercial banks. The project would finance office equipment and training.
Potential agribusiness project participants would apply for inclusion in the program, with proposals
presented to the commercial banks for appraisal. Participants would be required to meet eligibility
criteria, which have been developed during project preparation. In particular, the processors, packers and
traders selected must have sustainable market prospects back-linked to production capabilities in the
project area. The selection and appraisal process would continue throughout project implementation. The
project would target selection of the first batch of participants before the project's effective date.
(b)    Enterprise Credit. The project would provide funds to support the development of agriculture
enterprises. These funds would be channeled through project's participating commercial banks. The
relevant Entity Governments would sign subsidiary Loan Agreement with the PFIs. The disbursement of
PFI credit lines would be transaction base method, based on the amount of sub-loans made to final
beneficiaries. Loan principal would be repaid over a period of 10 years an interest rate based on the
average Euro Libor rate for the preceding six month period and will be reviewed from time to time to
adjust to new Libor rates. Interest payments would be made half-yearly. The PFIs would onlend to
enterprises in the project areas, which meet the eligible criteria, on market terms. A short-list of
commercial banks would be made based on their cornpliance with the criteria, as specified in OP 8.30.
The Participating banks would be selected from an approved short-list of commercial banks that have met
the project criteria, demonstrated willingness to lend to agriculture, established branches in the project
areas and expressed willingness to have staff trained in appraising agriculture-related loans. Detailed
criteria for the selection of commercial banks and micro credit organizations are in Operational
-45 -



Guidelines.
Sub-loans for agriculture-related activities in the project areas would be up to- 350,000 e for investment
and 100,000 e for working capital, with the project commercial banks to assume all of the risk. Loan
appraisal and administration would be the responsibility of the banks. However, IDA would work with
the participating commercial banks in evaluating the first three loans above 100,000 e.
(c) Technical assistance
Small and medium-scale enterprises involved in the production, processing and trade of agricultural
products face risks and opportunities which are unique to the agricultural sector. The ability to evaluate
loan applications from these enterprises thus requires specialized knowledge, in addition to an
understanding of the basic elements of SME loan evaluation. This specialized knowledge pertains
particularly to: the supply of raw materials, the nature of the production process, and the attributes of the
markets in which the product is sold. While many commercial banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina have
benefited from general training programs related to the evaluation of SME loans, few have received any
training specific to agricultural SME's.
Recognizing this need, the project includes provision for technical assistance and training to strengthen
the capacity of participating commercial banks to evaluate loans from agricultural SME's. Such technical
assistance should not only lead to more informed lending decisions, but also encourage commercial
banks to consider a wider range of loan proposals from the agriculture sector, and so increase their
lending to agriculture.
Full terms of reference for this technical assistance are included in Annex 1 of the Project
Implementation Plan.
Project Component 3 - US$ 6.70 million
(III)     Commercial Farmer Development Component.
The project would respond to major constraints inhibiting the development of commercial farmers
due to lack of modem production and processing technologies, insufficient access to credit for working
capital, and unreliable water supplies. The project would focus on improved technologies to support
market-led producer diversification, specialization and intensification; facilitate the access of small
commercial farmers to micro-credit (larger ones would be serviced under Component II); and improve
reliability of water supplies. This could be achieved through three sub-components as follows:
(a) Technology Development Through a competitive grants program, this sub-component would
support individual producers, community groups and agricultural processors to test and develop
technology appropriate to identified market opportunities. It would build institutional capacity of public
and private rural service providers to support farmers, agricultural processors and other rural
entrepreneurs.
* The project would support applied research for new varieties, higher yields, improved quality,
reduced production costs and value adding strategies for existing and new products and markets.
Priority would be given to appropriate, affordable and readily transferable technology that
improve market penetration.
* The project would support and technology demonstration programs on farmers' fields and in
assembly markets and processing industries, aimed at raising the competitiveness of agricultural
commodities and processed products in the project area and intemational markets.
-46 -



The applied research program would include a total of 30 applied research grants valued at up to e
18,500 each and 30 technology demonstrations valued at up to e 5,000 each. Industry based groups and
associations or individual farmers and processors, in collaboration with public or private science and
advisory groups, would be invited annually to submit proposals that would improve competitiveness and
are linked to clearly defined market opportunities. Technology demonstrations, to test or transfer new
and adapted technology, would be managed by farmrer groups on members fields under the guidance of
an agricultural advisor. Processing demonstration would also be managed by participating processing
plants or institutions in the project areas.
A Joint Competitive Grant Committee (JCGC) would be established to administer the competitive grant
program for applied agricultural research and on-farm technology testing and demonstration. The JCGC
would be composed of 12 persons including an independent chairperson and a deputy, four
representatives of the private farming sector, four representatives of private agro-processing companies,
two representatives respectively of the agricultural science commnunity and two from the Entity
Ministries of Agriculture. Representatives in each category of committee membership would be split
evenly between the Entities. The chairperson and a deputy would be an independent person identified
and elected by the 10 appointed members of the Board on the basis of unanimous agreement. The sectors
represented on the JCGC may vary over time, but there would always be a majority of members selected
from the private sector and non-government organizations. All JCGC members would serve for two
years, with some staggering of retirement at the end of the first term, in order to ensure continuity and
institutional memory. The JCGC would be responsible for soliciting applications for research and
privately delivered extension projects in priority areas and for approving grants, work programs and
budgets. It would review progress reports and direct the monitoring and evaluation of the projects funded
under the program.
(b)    Micro-Credit. The project would provide access through existing micro-credit organizations
(MCOs) for individual small and medium-sized farmers to finance small capital improvements and
working capital. The Entity Governments would sign subsidiary Loan Agreements with the MCOs. The
disbursement of MCO credit line would be based on the amount of sub-loans made to final beneficiaries.
Loan principal would be repaid over a period of 10 years an interest rate based on the average Euro Libor
rate for the preceding six month period and will be reviewed from time to time to adjust to new Libor
rates. Interest payments would be made half-yearly. The MCOs would onlend to producers in the project
areas, who meet the eligible criteria. The MCO will set its own terms and conditions on sub-loans to
project beneficiaries with an interest sufficient to cover the full cost of lending (administrative costs cost
of capital, expected loan losses and inflation) and take into account positive real interests prevailing in
the financial markets. These terms and conditions will be reviewed on a regular basis.
Producers in the project areas see lack of access to micro-credit as a major constraint to increasing
commercial farming activities. Sub-loans by the MCOs for agriculture-related activities in the project
areas, would be in the range of 1,000 KM - 30,000 KM with the MCOs assuming all of the risk. The
project would monitor lending activities on a regular basis, but on the basis of portfolio performnance
rather than individual loans. The project would also include provision for technical assistance to (1)
design, test and introduce micro loan products more suited to agriculture, (2) to strengthen the capacity of
MCO's to appraise agricultural loans, and (3) to strengthen the capacity of MCO's to manage loan
portfolios with a higher proportion of agricultural loans. These technical assistance inputs are all
consistent with the broad objective to develop financially sustainable MCOs'. The precise form of this
technical assistance would depend on the needs perceived and expressed by the MCO's participating in
the project
-47 -



(c) Irrigation Rehabilitation. The aim of this component is to provide reliable water supply to
stimulate the expansion of small-scale commercial agriculture in the private sector in the project area.
This would be achieved through capital investments to overcome the effects of past-deferred
maintenance and technical assistance to help transfer water management to the private sector. The
support would comprise a nurnber of aspects:
.  Rehabilitation and repair of existing irrigation system infrastructure to offset deferred
maintenance and war damage;
*  Redesign, repair and improvements to existing irrigation systems serving private land and to
facilitate operation and maintenance by the farmer groups;
*  Development of water harvesting and irrigation in karst areas to provide additional water for
irrigation and livestock.
*  Improvements in water management and in the allocation of water and the operation of the
irrigation systems.
*  Training and capacity building to assist farmers to form effective water user groups for the
operation, maintenance and management of irrigation systems;
*  Technical assistance to farmer groups to assist them with the introduction of greenhouses
and water saving techniques.
The support would be in areas identified as having a potential for supplementary irrigation to support
crop growth both during the early planting months of the crop year as well as during the dry season,
especially July and August. The initial works proposed for the main irrigation systems would act as the
catalyst to downstream small farmers by ensuring that they have reliable water delivery to or near to their
farm gates. These initial works would be complimented by suitable low cost irrigation systems that can
be identified, planned, developed and managed by the farmers themselves.
The proposed project would aim to develop a sustainable institutional framework for the irrigation and
drainage sector based on Water User Associations (WUAs) and also Federations of WUAs (FWUAs).
The former already exist within the Project area, but not in a formal manner and with few actual
operational responsibilities. The project would aim to develop and strengthen WUAs and FWUAs, which
will eventually take over secondary and primary irrigation facilities respectively. Details can be found in
PIP.
Project Component 4 - US$1.87 million
(IV) Project Management.
The project would strengthen project implementation units in both the FBH and RS. It would increase the
existing capability to manage day-to-day project activities and coordinate work with local
implementation units. The project would upgrade office equipment and facilities, provide a few vehicles
to improve mobility and supervision, provide training for staff for project implementation and monitoring
and finance consultants, incremental staff and other operating expenses related to the project.
-48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million   US $million   US $million
Market Integration                                           0.64          0.80           1.44
Private Agribusiness Support                                 0.02          4.03          4.05
Commercial Farners Development                               2.72          3.48           6.20
Project Management                                            1.33         0.36           1.69
Total Baseline Cost                                          4.71           8.67         13.38
Physical Contingencies                                      0.23          0.16           0.39
Price Contingencies                                         0.24          0.12           0.36
Total Project Costs1                5.18          8.95         14.13
Total Financing Required                 5.18          8.95         14.13
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.2 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 12.92 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 92.85
% of total project cost net of taxes.
-49-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.     Production Models. Production models have been developed based on a range of enterprises
existing in the project area and likely to be eligible for Participating Credit Institutions (PCI) support
under the proposed SCCAD Project. Farnod (Version 4.02) was used to construct the budgets for crop
and livestock enterprises for these analyses, which were also prepared in more detail in Excel 97 formats
for dynamic modelling. These production models are based on discussions with farmers, agricultural
extension workers, input dealers, commodity traders and others with a detailed knowledge of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BH) agriculture. The farm management handbook prepared by the EU-funded Extension
Service Project in BH was used to verify data collected in the field. The models include vineyards for red
Vrance grape, Kardinal Table Grape, orchards for apples, peaches and mandarins (all hand graded and
boxed), early vegetables such as potatoes, tomatoes and beans, summer vegetables and peppers,
early-season tomatoes grown in plastic houses, summer-season Capsicum and late-season hot pepper.
Livestock models include five dairy-cow operations from which farmers sell milk, culled livestock and
manure. The livestock models were built to reflect maize silage or alfalfa as alternative feed bases. A
detailed description of the analysis is in the project files.
1.1    Financial Analysis
Financial analysis has been carried out for each of the potential crops in the project area. It is based on
the assumption that with reliable water supply, technology development and increased market
infornation from the project, farmers would be interested in expanding their farming activities. The
analysis models the investment decisions of individual borrowers, which would be based on a range of
financial data such as: (i) investment costs, (ii) operating costs, (iii) net income before financing, (iv) net
income after financing and (v) required financial contribution from own savings. Investment costs and
operating costs are varied by type of investment, which for various investments includes costs for orchard
rehabilitation, new seedlings, concrete posts, trellis wire, land treatment, initial fertilizer for planting,
plastic tunnels, drip irrigation and fertilizer. Operating costs are normally for tractor operating expenses,
sprayer hire services, water fees and hired labor. It is assumed that farmers would borrow at most 80% of
total investment at the prevailing rate of interest (which was about 9% in March 2002) and would have
repayment periods of 1-4 years depending on the investment. Farmers would contribute 20% of total cost,
typically to cover operating costs. For each production system, net annual income after loan repayment,
the intemal rate of return (IRR) and net present value (NPV) are calculated at 10% cost of capital. The
results are summarized in the following table. They provide an indication of the costs and returns to
alternative agricultural investment the SCCAD Project might support and shows substantial incremental
family income per hectare for a number of different investments. The actual profitability and cash flow of
individual borrowers would need to be evaluated by Participating Financial Institutions on a case-by-case
basis.
- 50 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Loan Category            Net Annual Income   Net Present Value   Internal Ratee
after Loan           (NPV)            Return (IRR
Repayment (KM)           (KI)
Vrance Vineyards                      10,160/ha           18,684/ha           21.3%
Kardinal Table Grape                  11,830/ha           17,187/ha           27.0%
Apple Orchards                        15,541/ha           34,277/ha            27.3%
Mandarin (boxed, hand-graded)         17,561/ha           18,161/ha            24.7%
Peach (boxed, hand-graded)            15,245/ha           17,343/ha            25.6%
Greenhouse Vegetable                 13,456/0.2 ha      22,494/0.2 ha          43.8%
Dairy Cows - Maize feed base        17,983 /5 cows      36,862 /5 cows         25.5%
Dairy Cows - Alfalfa feed base      15,038 /5 cows      21,804 /5 cows        21.2%
1.2    Field Vegetables
The development of small-scale, pond-based supplementary irrigation on the Dubrava plateau would
support the intensification of early field vegetable production in that area. Potatoes and tomatoes are used
to model the likely benefits from such an irrigation system. In lowland Mediterranean climate areas,
irrigated early green beans and summer paprika are used to evaluate the benefit of irrigation system
rehabilitation. Potato yields on the Dubrava plateau are assumed to rise from 15 to 20 tons per hectare
and tomato yields from 60 to 70 tons per hectare with supplementary irrigation. The yield of irrigated
early green beans, a new crop in the region, is estimated at 15 tons per hectare while the productivity of
the irrigated summer paprika is estimated to rise from 25tons to 32 tons per hectare.
Returns to Irrigated Field Vegetables (per hectare)
Field Crop         Annual Operating Cost    Net Annual Return
Early field potatoes          6,972                     2,027
Early field tomatoes         27,568                     15,868
Early green beans             15,337                    6,737
Summer paprika                7,898                     2,298
The results of this analysis show that several crops offer rural investors the potential for attractive
financial returns from irrigated agriculture. This is especially true with respect to high-value horticultural
crops with export potential, including tomatoes, capsicums and hot peppers. Most investments modeled
here offer a potential for net income several times greater than GDP per capita. The SCCAD project
could thus be of major benefit to agricultural households.
Importantly, the analysis also shows that many investments would require a relatively large cash
contribution from individual borrowers for operating costs. With vegetable and dairy production,
however, .the opportunity for a steady income throughout much of the year can offset many of these
-51 -



expenses. It should be noted that, in the analysis, each crop has been modeled as a distinct activity. Other
sources of household income, which could be used to meet financing requirements, have not been
considered.
13     Field Crops
Farmers now grow maize and barley as rain-fed crops in areas of potential irrigation. It is expected that
maize would be replaced, first by irrigated field crops and then by more intensive forms of irrigated
production. Barley is unlikely to be profitable as an irrigated crop and would likely be immediately
replaced by higher value irrigated crops.
2      Financial Return to Irrigation Development
2.1    Benefits, The benefits of the project would also come from the incremental land that could be
bought into irrigated production. It is estimnated that an additional 3,367 hectares of land would be
brought into irrigated production under SCCADP, 544 hectares in RS and 2,823 hectares in FBH. The
incremental irrigated area in each locality under the project is as follows:
SCCADP
Area                       Irrigated Area
(ha)
Federation of Bosnia and Hezegovina
Klobuk-Vojinici- Sipovaca-Veljaci                         653
Vitinsko and Otocko Polje, the Mlada river west bank.     368
Hercegovacki Rastok                                       689
Hardomiljsko-Zviricko Polje                                81
Vasarovacko-Lisicko Polje                                 212
Grabovacko-Berisko Polje                                  206
Ljubusko-Radisko Polje                                    409
Hrasljansko Polje                                          38
Studenacko Polje                                          107
Stubicko Polje                                             60
Sub-total                                               2,823
Republika Srbska
Zasad-Mostaci Polje                                      105.5
Polje Below Mostaci (Wheels K5, K6)                       13.5
Systems with Water Wheels on the Left Bank               25.7
Systems with Water Wheels on Pridvoricki Branch           8.3
Systems with Pump Station                               391.0
Sub total                                                 544
TOTAL              3,367
2.1    Farm Models.
The activity models detailed in above section have been used to construct whole farm models. Each
whole farm model assumes ownership of 2 ha of rehabilitated or new (Dubrava plateau) irrigated land
that has previously been used for some form of rainfed agriculture. The farm models also assume the
availability of one full-time family member providing 300 person days of labor annually. Additional
labor requirements are purchased at market rates dependent on the type of skills required. In the case of
- 52 -



improved plastic greenhouse production, the covered area for most farms is estimated at 0.2 ha, with the
balance of the land used for other irrigated crops; except that 50 farms in Ljubuski Polje have been
costed for 0.6 ha of specialized (larger) greenhouse production. In the case of rehabilitated state-owned
land, it has been assumed that the area would be used for improved wine-grape production, which has
been its traditional use pattern. For the livestock enterprises, each system is costed over 10 years using
standard reproduction rates and culling percentages appropriate for BH agriculture. The basic models
assume farmers produce an irrigated fodder crop, buy the balance of their feed and sell manure.
Crop/Orchard Farm System                       Farm Model                     Total Area
(ha)
Federatdon of Bosnia & Herzeeovina
Mandarin orchard                                 480
Vance grape production                            960
Table grape production                            240
Greenhouse vegetables (0.6 ha)                    100
Greenhouse vegetables (0.2 ba)/field crops        160
Early field vegetable production                  120
Irripted maize and Lucerne production             760
Total                                            2820
Renubila Srbska
Early field vegetable                             60
Irrigated maize and alfalfa                       100
Greenhouse vegetables (0.2 haYfield crops         84
Peach production                                  100
Vrance grape production                           100
Table grape production                            100
Total Area                                        544
Altogether, 9 family farm household models are used to estimate the incremental benefits of the
rehabilitated or newly irrigated areas. The area and distribution of these models is shown in the above
table.
2.2     Irrigation Development Costs
The cost of developing irrigated land in the RS and FBH has been estimated based on a detailed survey
of all the project areas and subsequent preparation and detailed costing of bills of quantity for the land
development/rehabilitation programs. The estimated total costs for irrigation rehabilitation by year are as
follow:
Year              Year 1          Year 2            Year 3             Year 4            Year 5
Entity
FBH               1,954,603.2     2,012,089.1       1,079,643.9        308,313.3         79,797.4
RS                413,974.0       647,542.4         602,920.0         212,556.4          79,797.4
Total             2,368,577.2     2,659,631.5       1,682,563.9       520,869.8          159,594.8
2.3     Technology and Market Development Costs
The benefits detailed in the activity and farm budgets would not be realized without substantial
53 -



investment in irrigated agriculture technology development and investment in marketing knowledge and
systems to compete more effectively in domestic markets or export markets. Fifty percent of the costs
associated with technology development and market integration have been charged to the irrigation
component of the project and are as follows:
Year           Year I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year S
Entity
FBH            210,105.4     481,866.7      364,928.5      209,854.6      23,821.9
RS             210,105.4     481,866.7      364,928.5      209,854.6      23,821.9
Total          420,210.8     963,733.4      729,857.0      419,709.1      47,643.7
2.4    Incremental Benefits
Incremental benefits from the irrigation development have been calculated on the basis of the whole farm
models specified in the above table. The benefits from year 1-10 for both FBH and RS and the project are
as follows:
Year           FBH                 RS,               Total
Year 1                454,807            162,550            617,357
Year 2               5,842,118          1,227,248         7,069,366
Year 3               5,723,411          1,265,903         6,989,314
Year 4               6,824,952          1,620,882         8,445,834
Year 5               8,706,743          1,556,422         10,263,165
Year 6               9,474,567          2,119,772         11,594,339
Year 7              13,886,732          2,891,573         16,778,305
Year 8              17,965,770          3,689,487        21,655,257
Year 9              21,679,426          4,384,386        26,063,812
Year 10             28,919,032          6,046,966        34,965,998
contained in the project files. Incremental annual net family benefits after financing from the incremental
irrigated area over a 10 year period are summarized in the above table. The net incremental benefits
discounted at 10% over the 10 year period would provide the Financial Rate of Return of 33.4% and
NPV of KM 21.295million for the project FRR of 33.8% and NPV of KM 21.95 million for FBH and
FRR of 31.5% and NPV of KM 3.4 million for RS.
Sensitivity Analysis: The FRRs for the project and sub-project irrigation development programs and
individual whole farm models have been tested for their sensitivity to input price increases (+10%),
output price decreases (- 10%) and increased investment cost (+10%). The results of that analysis are
contained in the below table. The analysis shows the proposed SCCADP irrigation rehabilitation
investment to be financially attractive under these market variations.
-54 -



Base Case  Investment Sales Price  Operating
Increase  Decrease      Cost
Increase
%         10%       10%         10%
SCCADP irrigation development program          33.4       31.5      21.7         25.6
SCCADP: FBH Irrigation & market development    33.8       31.9      22.4         26.1
SCCADP: RS Irrigation and market development   31.5       29.8      18.6         22.8
1. Livestock production
Five Dairy Cattle - Maize silage               25.5       17.0      11.9         16.2
Five Dairy Cattle - Alfalfa hay                21.2       19.7      16.9         20.0
2.Agriculture and Horticulture Production
Greenhouse Vegetables (0.6 ha) with field crops  32.5     28.7      14.4         18.1
Greenhouse Vegetables (0.2 ha) with field crops  43.8     39.3      21.1         25.4
Mandarin Production                            24.7       23.6      21.0         22.3
Apple production                               27.3       26.0      23.4         24.9
Peach production                               25.6       24.7      21.7         22.9
Table Grape production                         27.0       25.6      21.3         23.2
Wine Production                                21.3       19.7      16.9         18.8
Main Assumptions:
1      Economic Analysis
Economic analysis has been carried out for the individual production models and for project investment
in irrigation rehabilitation and technology development as a whole, using constant 2002 border prices.
All investment, together with physical contingencies mninus taxes, has been taken into account in
estimating the economic costs of the project.
International price projections were used to estimate farngate economic prices in 2002 constant terms for
traded inputs and outputs. Economic farmgate prices for grain, fertilizer and livestock products are based
on intemational price projections, adjusted for international and national trade margins and transport and
handling costs. Given the large variation in price for vegetables as determined by variety, quality and
seasonality, the analysis averaged prices from a range of sources to determine CIF prices delivered to
Ploce, the nearest main port to the project area. The economic price of milk was determined using current
world market prices for skim milk powder and butter-oil. There are few off-farm emnployment
opportunities in rural BH and demand for farm labor is low and highly seasonal due to the small-scale,
family nature of most farming enterprises. Border prices for principal products and inputs can be found
in a table in the project file. Economic prices for non-traded goods are estimated using the standard
conversion factor of 0.866. Based on the above assumptions, investment in various activities under the
project would produce estimated ERRs ranging from 14% to 136%, all of which exceed the cost of
capital of 10%. In total, the project investment in irrigation rehabilitation and supporting technology and
- 55..



market development would produce an estimated ERR of 29.1% and NPV of KM 27 million for FBH,
ERR of 29.6% and NPV of KM 5.5 million for RS and-ERR of 29.2% and NPV of KM 32.5 million for
the project. These analysis indicate that the proposed investment in irrigation development and
rehabilitation and supporting technology development is economically viable.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out for all sub-components to evaluate the
effect on the project ERR to changes in major variations in the costs and benefits of the project. The
results show that the economic viability of each component is not very sensitive to price reductions and
cost increases in all cases.
Base Case Investment Sales Price  Operating
Increase   Decrease      Cost
Increase
°/.      10%        10%         10%
SCCADP irrigation development program       29.2      27.5        21.7         24.5
SCCADP: FBH Irrigation & market development  29.1     27.5        21.8         24.6
SCCADP: RS Irrigation and market development  29.6    27.9        21.1         23.9
1. Livestock production
Dairy Cattle - Maize silage                 14.3      12.1         7.2         10.9
2.Agriculture and Horticulture Production
Greenhouse Vegetables (0.6 ha) with field crops  119.8  95.4      70.1         86.6
Greenhouse Vegetables (0.2 ha) with field crops  135.9  106.6     72.8         90.1
Mandarin Production                         31.0      29.8        27.7         29.5
Apple production                            32.5      31.1        29.2         31.1
Peach production                            32.7      31.5        29.2         30.8
Table Grape production                      42.3      39.9        36.7         39.4
Wine Production                             26.5      25.0        22.5         24.5
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA. SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
; .   IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD I' '          ;     '
|Year1 I     Year 2  | Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           5.0        5.2        1.6       0.6       0.1       12.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.3       0.4        0.3       0.3        0.3        1.6      0.0
Total Project Costs          5.3        5.6        1.9       0.9       0.4       14.1       0.0
Total Financing              5.3        5.6        1.9       0.9       0.4       14.1       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   4.7       4.9        1.5       0.6        0.3      12.0       0.0
Govemment                  0.6       0.7        0.4       0.3        0.1       2.1       0.0
Central                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneflciaries      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     5.3        5.6        1.9       0.9       0.4      14.1        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 57 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will be done in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999). The Borrower will use Bank's standard bidding documents for goods
and works, including the Bank's regional sample documents, as well as the standard evaluation reports.
Consulting services will be procured in accordance with Bank's guidelines - Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999 and
May 2002). Any goods, works and services financed by other co-financiers will be procured in
accordance with their respective procurement procedures. The General Procurement Notice will be
published in the United Nations 'Development Business' in April 2003.
Procurement Responsibilities
Project Implementation Units
In Republika Srpska and (as well as in the Federation of BH) the implementation functions (procurement,
financial management, reporting and auditing) of the project would be performed by the existing Project
Implementation Units (PIU of established earlier to implement Forestry project in FBH and Agriculture
Project Coordination Unit in RS) within Ministry in line of respective Entities of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The PIU/APCU would also coordinate and liaison with other government agencies within
the Entities, with each other, and with The World Bank. Each Entity will be responsible for its own
procurement management of the project.
Both PIU/APCU had limited experiences with the Bank's financed projects. The procurement capacity
should be strengthened by additional training of the PIU/APCU's procurement staff. In addition, Bank
procurement procedures should be explained in detail during the project launch mission by the
procurement specialist who is based in the World Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo and/or PAS
assigned to the project.
To facilitate their work, the Project would support the PIU/APCU, financing reasonable operating costs,
financing technical assistance and carrying out a staff development program.
Staffing of the Procurement Function in APCUof the Republika Srpska
Before the SSCADP starts APCU will need to recruit procurement officer(s) acceptable to the Bank.
Currently, there is no procurement officer assigned to the project. There is part-time procurement officer
within APCU who is full-time assigned to another 6 Bank's projects.
Staffing of the Procurement Function in PIU of the Federation of BH
There is procurement officer in the PIU who is going to be responsible for procurement under SSCADP
as well as for second phase of Forestry project. He will require additional training in procurement under
Bank's procedure (till now he hasn't attended to any procurement training related to The World Bank
procedures).
- 58 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
2.1 Thresholds
The following thresholds are recommended. The aggregate amounts for each procurement method
discussed below are shown in the footnotes to Table A:
(i) Goods and Equipment: Goods and equipment to cost $100,000 and more will be procured through
ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 each may be procured through international shopping,
on the basis of three written quotations obtained from at least two different countries or through IAPSO
of the United Nations Development Program. Small contracts for supplies and minor equipment
estimated to cost less than $50,000 each may be procured under national shopping on the basis of three
written price quotations obtained from local suppliers.
(ii) Civil Works under the Demand-Driven Component: Civil works cost $500,000 or more will be
procured through ICB. Civil works estimated to cost below $500,000 may be procured on the basis of
national competitive bidding (NCB). Minor works estimated to cost less than $50,000 each may be
procured on the basis of three written price quotations and the contract awarded to the lowest priced
bidder who has the necessary experience and financial resources to complete the works successfully.
Bank's standard and sample bidding documents and evaluation reports will be used.
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. Where registration is required, bidders shall be
allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process and shall not be denied registration for
reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall be
verified through post-qualification. Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration
process is required, a foreign bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to register.
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper allowing a
minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids.
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for
bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 30
days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience,
technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.
Government-owned enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be eligible to participate in bidding only
if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and
are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same
bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods,
works or services, acceptable to the Association.
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids. Evaluation of bids
shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding
documents. Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the lowest evaluated
substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall take place. Civil works contracts of long duration
(e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. All bids shall
not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Association's prior concurrence. When the number of
- 59 -



bids received is less than three, re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior
concurrence.
Procurement under Credit-line and Competitive Grant Program. The proposed credit will provide
funds to commercial banks and micro credit institutions to be on-lent to private sector enterprises and
farmers for production, processing and trading in the project area. Procurement of goods equipment and
works under the credit line, excluding the consultation services, would be the responsibility of the
sub-borrowers as beneficiaries. All of the procurement by sub-borrowers would be minimal in the in the
maximnum value (limited to Euro 350,000 per sub-loan,) covering numerous items at each site and all
such procurement would be at the discretion of the sub-borrower. Procurement of goods and works
financed by sub-loans re-lent by commnercial banks or micro-credit institutions will be conducted by
commercial practices, in accordance with paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines.
The project would also finance development of new and innovative production and processing
technologies through a competitive grants program (CGP) (estimated US$2.14 million) to be managed by
Joint Competitive Grant Committee (JCGC). The JCGC would be establish broadly the priority area for
research and demonstration, the procedures for applying for the grant and the criteria for review of
proposals. Funds would be approved for projects based on pre-determined criteria outlined in the CGP
Operation Manual attached in Project Implementation Plan and would be directly given to successful
applicants.
Goods and works procured by beneficiaries of grants under the Competitive Grant Program shall be
procured competitively in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines. To the extent possible,
beneficiaries shall obtain competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers and, in awarding
contracts, shall take into account other relevant factors, such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts. The supply of goods, works or
services from the beneficiary itself or from affiliated entities shall not be eligible for financing under the
credit.
(iv) Consultant Services, TA and Training: Consultant's services will be selected in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines issued in January 1997 and revised in 1997, 1999 and May 2002, and for this
project, will include Quality and Cost Based Selections (QCBS), and Individual Consultants (IC). QCBS
selection over US$100,000 will be advertised in Development Business and in a national newspaper for
expressions of interest, from which a short list will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000, short lists may be based solely on national firms providing that a sufficient number of
qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. Individual consultants will be selected
in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines. Training for the PMU staff will be conducted in
accordance with a bi-annual training program that the PIU/APCU will submit to the Bank for its
agreement before implementation.
2.2 Prior Review
The following prior review requirements would be applicable:
Goods and Civil Works
(a) All ICB packages.
(b) First IS, NCB and Minor Works package.
- 60 -



Consulting Services
(c) Consulting Firms: For each contract estimated to cost $100,000 or more, after the technical proposal
has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report would be submitted to the World Bank for its review
prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts with firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000, the Bank would be notified of the results of the technical proposals.
(d) Individual Consultants: All TORs, consultant's qualifications and experience, and draft contracts, for
consulting assignments above US$25,000 each.
Operating Costs
Operating costs will be incurred in accordance to an annual budget that the PIU/APCU will prepare and
submnit to the Bank for its approval before any expenditures are incurred.
2.3 Post Review
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to ex-post review, on a selective basis.
One out of five contracts for goods, works, technical services and consulting services will be subject to
ex-post review. Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist whose main responsibility
will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and provide his or her
findings.
Table A: Project Costs by lProcurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB         Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            1.99          0.17         0.00        2.16
(0.00)          (1.43)       (0.08)        (0.00)     (1.51)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00          0.22         0.00        0.22
Equipment & Materials             (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.18)       (0.00)      (0.18)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00          1.56         0.00        1.56
Technical Assistance               (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.09)       (0.00)      (1.09)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00          2.57         0.00        2.57
Training and Competitive Grant     (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.11)       (0.00)      (2.11)
Program                                                             .
5. Operating Expense               0.00            0.00          1.62         0.00        1.62
(0.00)          (0.00)       (1.11)        (0.00)     (1.11)
6. Credit                          0.00            0.00          6.00         0.00        6.00
Enterprise & Micro Credit         (0.00)          (0.00)        (6.00)       (0.00)      (6.00)
Total                            0.00            1.99         12.14        0.00        14.13
(0.00)          (1.43)       (10 .57)      (0.00)     (12.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
- 61 -



to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Other procurement methods include:
(a) Works: Include four minor work packages, each cost lesser than US$50,000, total estimated value at
US$113,860.
(b) Goods: IS for computers and specialized equipment valued US$ 132,000 and NS for multiple packages for
non-computer office goods, field Office and field equipment, training equipment, furniture, etc. valued at
US$95,928.
(c) Services: Technical Assistance Consultant-includes six QCBS contracts valued at $0.755 million and about ten
IC contracts valued $0.803 million.
(d) Miscellaneous: Training and Competitive Grant program - (i) training, study tour and workshop valued at $0.43
million and . (ii) competitive grant program (total cost estimated to be US$2.14 million) will finance approximately
120 small grants, the maximum value of each will be US$20,000, which will be awarded in accordance with
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank and administered by the Joint Competitive Grant Committee.
(e) Operating Expenses: disbursement based on approved work programs for expense incurred in training and office
operating costs valued at US$ 1.62 million.
(e) Credit: Enterprise and MCO Credit includes direct transfer to Banks and MCOs according to agreements between
Entity Governments and PFIs and MCOs (US$6.00 million).
- 62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category  _    ,,thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                 > or equal US$0.5 m           ICB                      0
<US$ 0.250 m               NCB                  US$0.42m
<US$0.05 m                 MW                  US$0.072m
2. Goods                > or equal to US$0.1 m         ICB                      0
<US$0.1 m                  IS                 US$ 0.055m
<US$0.05m                  NS                  US$0.025m
3. ServicesTechnical   > or equal to US$100,000       QCBS                 US$0.755 m
Assistance             > ofr equal to US$25,000         IC                 US$0.803m
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$2.13 million or 15% of total project
cost and about 26% of project cost outside
credit lines.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low/Average/High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The PIU/APCU will be responsible for implementing the project, including procurement. Specifically,
the PIU/APCU will:
The following action plan should be implemented to strengthen the procurement capacity of the
PIJ/APCU as well as to provide information and support to all concerned for implementing
procurement.
* The Republika Srpska shall appoint the procurement officers before the effectiveness of the credit or
the project launch workshop, whichever is earlier.
* Both PIU/APCU shall prepare and implement a training program for the procurement officer which
should begin with training through the project launch workshop and should be completed within six
months of the credit effectiveness.
* Both PIU/APCU shall develop a procurement monitoring system to track procurement actions as well
as to produce up-to-date periodic reports for itself and the Bank.
* Schedule a procurement seminar to familiarize Both PIU/APCU staff with IDA procurement
-63 -



procedures to be followed. The seminar should be held within six months of the credit effectiveness.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: Country
Procurement Assessment Report dated June 21, 2002.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Yes No X
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: June 2003
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: April 2003
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business
No
No X Domestic Preference for Goods
Yes    No X   Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable
Yes    No
Retroactive financing
Yes    No X      Explain:
Advance procurement
Yes    No    X   Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Co-financing:
No
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement
in the Project: Mr. Jesus Renzoli, Procurement Specialist, Ext. 85922
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
The procurement analyst from the CO will support the project.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 64 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Mana2ement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Country Issues.
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for BH was carried out in 2001. The draft
CFAA Report from August 2001 identifies weaknesses in public sector budgeting, accounting, reporting,
and auditing. The draft CFAA Report also highlights an environment of pervasive corruption at all levels
of the economy. In view of the above, the Report recommends having a medium to longer-term goal of
mainstreaming project management into Ministries and Departments, and of consolidating implementing
units and refraining from the creation of new ones. In view of this, the Report concludes that it remains
appropriate to maintain the current "ring fencing" of financial resources in Bank projects in order to
provide the appropriate fiduciary safeguards.
The draft CFAA Report also identifies the country's weak banking sector. Domestic private banks are
ill-liquid, undercapitalized, exposed to non-performing loans and poorly managed. There are still too
many commercial banks in BH, especially in the Federation, given the existing economic potential and
the modest credit potential, which in turn are the result of a very low capital base due to significant
economic and financial risks. Unless they are privatized, state-owned banks will be unable to resolve the
problems they inherited from the previous system.. Newly established private banks face other kinds of
problems such as poor quality assets and the threat of insolvency, both the unhealthy result of insider
relationships. As a result of this situation, the banking sector is undergoing a process of consolidation.
However, taking the whole situation into consideration, parts of the banking sector should be seen as
high risk, and caution is indicated when selecting banks for the project's credit lines.
The governing system in BH is highly complex and as well as the Office of the High Representative
(OHR) comprises several government levels with appropriate legislative and fiscal powers. These are the
State of BH (State); Federation Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation); Republic of Srpska (RS); Brecko
District (self-administrative, overseen by OHR), and ten cantons (Canton) of the Federation. Below the
canton level, there are traditional local governments - cities and municipalities.
Finally, the unsettled political situation and general governance problems presently affecting BH taken
together with (i) the weaknesses in project financial management and lack of capacity in implementing
units and (ii) the weak banking system mean that it is not recommendable to introduce report-based
disbursements into the BH portfolio at this stage.
Strengths and Weaknesses
Strengths. Both the Forestry PIU in the Federation and the Agriculture PCU in RS have the advantage of
having experienced financial managers with extensive experience from IDA projects as well as projects
financed from other sources. Both of them satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements for being financial
managers/project accountants in IDA projects. The turnover rate is low both for financial and
non-financial staff.
Weaknesses. Like most of the PIUs in BH, the main weakness of the PIU in the Federation and the PCU
-65 -



in RS is that the number of staff is too small to achieve satisfactory separation of duties. While sufficient
for day-to-day work, the number of staff is not enough to guarantee separation of duties. As it is not
realistic to increase the number of staff for this reason alone, extra vigilance must be used to make sure
this weakness remains in focus. During negotiations, it was agreed that the government will increase one
financial assistance position at each PIU.
Implementing Entities.
The IDA Credit would be lent to BH, which would onlend the proceeds to the Federation and to
Republika Srpska. The Credit would be implemented by the Forestry PIU in the Federation and the
APCU in RS under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Management in the Federation and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry in
Republika Srspka. The main task of the Federation PIU and the RS APCU is to prepare new projects as
well carrying out annual planning, financial management, contracting and supervision, monitoring of
repayments, reporting and evaluation during the entire project implementation period. The Directors
reports to the Ministers of Agriculture in the respective Entities. In RS the Minister is also the chairman
of the "managing board".
In the Federation the PIU is also responsible for the implementation of the Forestry Project and will
assume responsibility for the next forestry project, the Forestry Development Project. In RS in addition to
WB projects, the APCU is also responsible for the implementation of projects financed by the
International Fund for Agriculture Development, i.e., the Livestock and Rural Financing Development
Projects.
Funds Flow.
The total project expenditures for RS and the Federation would be US$14.13 million (equivalent), of
which US$12.0 million equivalent would be financed from the IDA credit, and US$2.13 million from
two Entity Governments. The counterpart contributions would be transferred to project accounts
managed by the two PIUs.
Two IDA Special Accounts would be established (one for the Federation PrIU and one for the RS APCU),
and both these Special Accounts would be held in commercial banks acceptable to IDA. Entity
government would open a Project Account with an initial deposit equivalent to one-quarter of the first
year counterpart fund requirement in this account.
Flow charts would form the basis for the project accounting procedures, which would describe in detail
all work tasks involved in the flow of funds and accounting. The administrative procedures for the flow
of funds would be established by the PIUs and documented in the Project Accounting Procedures to be
included in their Financial Management Manuals. Each work task would be linked to a specific
individual in the PIUs or in the Ministries.
Staffing.
The Forestry PIU in the Federation consists of a Director (appointed by the Entity Government in the
Federation), a Financial Manager and a Procurement Specialist. Taking on the Small-Scale Commercial
Agriculture Project would mean employing more professionals. These are specialists in agriculture,
irrigation, monitoring and evaluation, as well as administrative staff, a translator, and a driver.
- 66 -



The APCU in RS consists of a Director (appointed by the Entity Government of RS), a Financial
Manager, a Procurement Specialist (consultant), a Rural Engineer, a Staff Assistant/Book-keeper, and a
Translator.
In both PlUs the Financial Manager is de facto the project accountant. In the RS APCU he is assisted and
covered by the Staff Assistant/Book-keeper. The shortage of financial management staff in both PrUs
makes it difficult to keep a fully satisfactory separation of duties (see Risk, above). The staffing levels of
the PIUs are satisfactory on condition that the issue of separation of duties remains in focus and that the
financial management staff does not take on tasks that would exacerbate the situation.
Accounting Policies and Procedures.
There is a separate project underway, financed by USAID, to strengthen financial management in the two
Entity Governments. However, it will be some time before the accounting practices and routines within
the two Entities are at an acceptable level for project accounting in IDA-financed projects.
Project accounting (on a cash basis) is therefore maintained separately from the ministries and instead
within the PCUs. Accounting procedures will be set out in Financial Management Manuals, one for each
PCU. The Agriculture PCU in RS has already prepared a draft FM Manual covering (a) the financial
management system proposed for the project, with special emphasis on disbursement, accounting and
financial flows, local bank accounts, management of funds, risks, etc., and (b) accounting, including
chart of accounts, accounting procedures, internal control systems, etc. The draft financial management
manual has been used in a number of previous projects and a previous Bank FMS was the language and
fact editor. However, while in principle adequate, it has been agreed that the manual should be
complemented with examples of forms used by the project as well as project accounting procedures in
which each work task in the fund flow and accounting process is described in detail, including who is
preparing, reviewing, and approving these tasks.
The Federation PIU is preparing its draft Financial Management Manual and it will need to be assessed
before Board Presentation.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. The PIUs have no internal audit function and none is considered necessary given the
small size of the organizations.
External Audit. The State Ministry of Treasury of Institutions of BH has a three-year contract
(2001-2003) with an International Auditing Company for the audits of WB-financed projects (with the
exception of revenue-earning projects. According to the master agreement, the audited project financial
statements would be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
The audit agreement has had the effect that most audit reports in BIH have been submitted on time. Audit
reports for project financial statements include opinions on the project financial statement (including
statements of expenditures), the Special Account, and on the company's internal control arrangements
and cover all financial sources (IDA, Trust Funds, Government accounts, etc.). Projects managed by the
PlUs have in the past submitted satisfactory audited financial statements on time and have also complied
with all other FM requirements such as submitting satisfactory PMRs on time. As the BIH's Treasury
auditing arrangements with the International Auditing Company are satisfactory to the Association, it is
proposed that these audit arrangements should be extended to this project.
In any event, if other audit arrangements were to be proposed for the BH portfolio, the Bank's general
-67 -



requirements that the auditor needs to be a member of a body affiliated with the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC) and pre-approved by the Bank would apply. The audit would be carried out in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied. The contract for the audit would be
extended from year to year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the
audit would be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
The following table specifies the due dates for the different audit opinions:
Audit Opinions        Due Date
Project              June 30, 2004
SOE                   June 30, 2004
Special Account       June 30, 2004
Other                N/A
Reporting and Monitoring.
The PIU in the Federation and the APCU in RS would maintain financial records for the Project and
would ensure appropriate accounting for the funds provided. They would prepare and submit quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Both implementation units will be using the standard World Bank
format for FMRs.
The FMRs would include:
1.    Project Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
2.     Uses of Funds by Project Activity Statement
3.     Project Balance Sheet
4.     Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
5.     Output Monitoring Reports
6.     Procurement Process Monitoring (consultants)
7.     Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
8.    Reconciliation of Credit Account balances
They would also prepare annual project financial statements, in the format used for the audit of project
financial statements agreed upon by the Government of BiH and PriceWaterhouseCoopers (Netherlands)
in their "global" contract for BH.
Information Systems.
The Financial Manager of the APCU in RS, together with an IT specialist, has previously designed and
implemented new accounting software in Microsoft Access. This software has already been approved by
a Bank FMS for use in World Bank-financed projects. The software has all the necessary accounting
securities. For example, once data has been entered, all corrections must be in accordance with proper
accounting rules. It also has codes with security features, which means that the staff can only use the
system to the extent the operation they wish to carry out is considered part of their job description.
The accounting system (i) reliably records and reports all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of
the project; (ii) provides reliable financial infornation for managing and monitoring project activities,
and (iii) provides quarterly FMRs and/or PMRs on a timely basis. The system is classified by component;
- 68 -



reflects the sources of funds and is broken down into different types of expenditures for the project.
Further, it provides information on the receipt and use of funds and is able to produce financial reports
comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system is capable of providing
financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project. The financial software
has adequate security levels and the system meets the Bank's minimum reporting requirements.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a period of six years (2003 through
2009). Disbursements from the IDA credit would follow the transaction-based method, i.e., the
traditional Bank procedures including reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of
Expenditure (SOE), direct payments and special commitments.
The draft CFAA for BH recommended that report-based disbursements should not be introduced in the
BH portfolio at this stage because of significant risks relating to (i) project financial management
weaknesses and lack of capacity in PIUs; (ii) the weak banking system; and (iii) the unstable political
situation and general govemance problems presently affecting Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Disbursements from the IDA credit will follow the trEasaction-based method, i.e., the traditional Bank
procedures including reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of Expenditure (SOE), direct
paymnents and special conmnitrnents.
The Credit arnount of SDR 8.7 million ($12 million equivalent) funded by IDA would be allocated to the
Federation of BH and Republika Srspka as shown below. Disbursements from the Credit proceeds would
be administered by the PIUs. They are responsible for retaining supporting documentation for SOEs and
making them available to IDA supervision missions, as well as to the auditors.
The table below shows the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the Percentage of Expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category.
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in SDR Equivalent       Financing Percentage
F B H                        _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _    _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
1.     Works                  785,000                    70 percent
2.     Goods                   60,000                    100 percent for foreign
expenditures, 100 percent for
local expenditures (ex-factory
costs and 50 percent of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
3.     PFI Sub-loans         1,310,000                   100 percent of amount disbursed
4.     MCO Sub-loans          650,000                    100 percent of amount disbursed
5.     Competitive Grants     585,000                    85 percent of amount disbursed
6.      Consultants' services,  570,000                   100 percent for foreign
audit and training.                                       expenditures and 50 percent for
local expenditures
7.     Incremental Operating  370,000                    70 percent
Expenses
-69 -



8.     Unallocated           480,000
Total FBH         4,810,000
RS
9.     Works                  190,000                     70 percent
10.    Goods                  55,000                      100 percent for foreign
expenditures, 100 percent for
local expenditures (ex-factory
costs and 50 percent of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
11.    PFI Sub-loans         1,310,000                    100 percent of amount disbursed
12     MCO Sub-loans.          650,000                   100 percent of amount disbursed
13.    Competitive Grants      585,000                   85 percent of amount disbursed
14.    Consultants' Services,  405,000                    100 percent for foreign
audit and Training.                                      expenditures and 50 percent for
local expenditures
15.    Incremental Operating  305,000                    70 percent
Expenses
16.    Unallocated             390,000
Total RS                  3,890,000
Grand Total              8,700,000
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Use of Statements of Expenditures
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully documented and
supported by statements and reconciliation statements. SOE disbursements should be made for: (i)
contracts for individual consultants valued at less than US$25,000; (ii) contracts for consulting firms
valued at less than US$100,000; (iii) contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000; (iv) contracts for
works costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each; and v) training and study tours, audit fees and all
incremental operating costs. The minimum size of application for direct payment withdrawals and the
issuance of special commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent of the Authorized
Allocation to the Special Account. This documentation would be made available for the required audit as
well as to Bank Supervision Missions, and would be retained by the PlUs for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the last fiscal year in which disbursement was made.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government of BH would establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts for the Federation and
RS, respectively, denominated in Euro, with either special account for the accounting purposes of the
Federation and RS, respectively. Before a bank is selected to hold either special account, the Borrower
shall provide sufficient information for IDA to make an assessment of the true diligence of the bank in
question. The authorized allocation of the Special Accounts is Euro 600,000 and the authorized
allocation is limited to Euro 300,000 until withdrawals have reached SDR 1,000,000, then the full
authorized allocation could be disbursed.
- 70 -



Action Plan.
The actions were taken and have satisfied the Bank's fiduciary financial management requirements on
January 31, 2003. These are (a) PIU/APCU have prepared project accounting procedures for cash flow
and accounting, (b) computer accounting system has been installed at the Federation PIU and (c) the
Financial Management Manuals have been repared.
Supervision Plan.
The frequency of supervision would be dependent on the Project's Risk rating. During supervision
missions the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a
sample of SOEs and movements on the Special Account) would be reviewed to ensure compliance with
the Bank's minimum fiduciary requirements.
The Country FMS would review the FMRs for the project on a regular basis and the results and/or issues
would be followed up during the supervision missions. The Audited Project Financial Statements would
be reviewed and identified issues would be followed up with the APCU.
FM Questionnaire Completed.
The data from the two questionnaires has not yet been completely finalized.
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      28
First Bank mission (identification)             06/07/2001                  06/07/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     10/07/2002                   10/07/2002
Negotiations                                    01/27/2003                  02/03/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2003
Prepared by:
Federation Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry and RS Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Water Management
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Rapeepun Jaisaard                 Senior Agricultural Economist, Task Team Leader
Dilek Barlas                      Senior Council
Lorenz Pohlmeier                  Senior Cooperative Specialist
David Webber                      Senior Disbursement Officer
Vesna Francic                     Disbursement Analyst
Jesus Renzoli                     Procurement Specialist
Karl Wennerstrom                  Financial Management Specialist
Rita Klees                        Environmental Specialist
Valencia Copeland                 Program Assistant
- 72 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
"Project Implementation Plan", December 5, 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Financial Management Assessment" by Karl Enar Wennerstrom, FMS, November 2002.
" Procurement Capacity Assessment" by Nikola Kerleta, PAS, November 2002.
" Financial Assessment of Banks" by Mr. Neil Murphy, Banking Advisor, November 2002.
" Financial Returns to Bosnia and Herzegovina Irrigation System Development by Garry Smith, August
2002.
" Project Cost Tables" ECSSD, December 2002.
" Financial and Economic Analysis", December 2002.
" Credit Program: Operational Guidelines", December 15, 2002.
" Competitive Grant Program: Operational Guidelines", December 15, 2002.
C. Other
(a) "Environmental Assessment and Management Plan" by BOSNA-S OIL Services Company, October
2002.
(b) " Social Assessment of the Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project" by PRISM
Research Company, February/April 2002.
(c) "Irrigation Systems Assessment" by Radivoje Bratic and Anton Vukojevic, October 2002.
(d) " PROJECT AREA: CAPLJINA, LJUBUSKI, NEUM, STOLAC, MOSTAR" by Farnco Trescec and
his team July 2002.
(e) "Innovative Technologies" by Farmco Trescec and his team, July 2002.
(f) "Project Area: Popovo polje - analyzing of farming systems and recommendation for innovations" by
Dr. Gordana Djuric August 2002.
(g) "Appraisal of Potential Project Participants for RS" by David Gue, October 2002.
(h) " Appraisal of Potential Project Participants for FBH" by David Gue, October 2002.
*Including electronic files
- 73 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
06-Feb-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P057950       2002 SOLID WASTE MGMT                                  0.00     18.00                           0.00      18.85      0.00      0.00
P070243       2002 PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT                     0.00     10.00                           000       993        0.62      0.00
P071001       2002 BUS ENABLG ENV SAC                                0.00     44.00                           0.00     26.53     -20.04      0.00
P071347       2002 ROAD MGMT SAFETY                                  000      30.00                           o.0o      31.94      0.33      0.00
P070650       2001 SOTAC                                             0 00      3.55                           0.00       3.38      2.74      0.00
P066169       2001 LOCINIT2                                          000      20.00                           0.00      14.01     13.89      0.00
P070079       2001 TRADE&TRANSFACILINSEEUR                           0.00     1100                            0.00      10.34     11.14      0.00
P070917       2001 PRIV TA                                           0.00     19.80                           0.00      19.98      618       0.0
P058521       2001 ELECPWR3RECN                                      0.00     3500                            0.00      35.51     12.14      000
P070995       2001 COMM DEVT                                         0.00     15.00                           0 00      14.59      6 70      0 00
P070146       2000 EMG LABOR REDEPLOYbENT PILOT                      0.00     15.00                           0 00       9.71     10 20      0 00
P057951       2000 MOSTAR WS & SAN                                   0.00     12.00                           000        750       038       0.00
P058512       2000 EDUC 3                                            0.00     10.60                           0.00       6.57      0.88      0 00
P044523       1999 BASIC HEALTH                                      0.00     10.00                           0.00       3.76      3.90      0.00
P056192       1999 LOCALDEVT                                         000      1500                            0.00      12.55     12.20      0.00
P059763       1999 CULTL HERITAGE PILOT                              0.00      4.00                           0.00       2.06      2.13      0.00
P02936       1999 ENT EXPFACIL (BEEF)                               0.00     12.00                           0.00       008       0.40     0o00
P045134       1998 FORESTRY                                          0.00      7.00                           0 00       0.20      0.86      074
Total:       0.00      291 95                          0.00     227.51      64.66      0.74
- 74 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30.- 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997/99/01         Bosnia Micro                 0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00
2001               CPB                          3.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1985               Energoinvest                 7.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.99    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Enterprise Fund              0.00    1.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00
2001               PBS Group                    10.84   0.00     0.00   0.00   10.84    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               SEF Akova                    1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999/01            SEF Bosnalijek               2.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Kopex                    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Lignosper                2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Lijanovici               1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Sarajevska                   1.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977               TKA Cazin                    3.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.38    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Agency-AL               4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Inga                    1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                  Wood Konjuh                  2.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.02    0.00     0.00   0.00
0                  Wood Kozara                  1.60    0.00     0.00   0.00    1.34    0.00     0.00   0.00
0                  Wood Podgradci                1.09   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               Wood Vrbas                   1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       48.40    2.15     0.00    0.00   37.24    1.44    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001               SPV - PBS                       1.74     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              MEB II                           2.63     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Raiffeisen Bank                 14.89     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002               Lukavac                        24.10     0.00      0.00     4.96
Total Pending Commitment:      43.35      0.00      0.00     4.96
- 75 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Bosnia  Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   and    Central   middle-
Herzegovina      Asia   Income      Development dlamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       3 9      475      2,164                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  1,270     1,960     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      4.9      930      2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (IX)                                       1.3       0.1       1.0
Labor force(X)                                        1.6       0.6       1.2     GNI                             Gross
per    Ipnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaflable, 1995.01)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              43        63        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      73         69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              13        20        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                               11           Access to improved water source
Access to an Iiproved water source (% of population)    ..      90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                             3        15
Gross pnmary enrollment (X ofschool-age population)   96        102      107              Bosnia and Herzegovina
Male                                                96        103      107              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              96       101       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS bilons)                               .        ..      4.4       4.5
Gross domestic investmentGDP                            .      20.0      21.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              30.7      31.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP 1.                                 -11.3     -10.4
Gross national savings/GDP                                     -07       -0.9
Current account balance/GDP                                   -20.7     -22.1     D
Interest payments/GDP                                           2.8       1.9     Domestc                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                 53.7      49 0     savings
Total debt service/exports                                     19 3      17 3
Present value of debtUGDP                                      36.7
Present value of debt/exports                                  97.0
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         22.5      4.5       2 3       4.4              Bosnla and Herzegovina
GDP per capita                              15.5      1.8       0 2       3 8              Lower-middle-income group
Exporls of goods and services               36.8     19.2       9 0       5 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP 1%)
(%6 of GDP)
Agnculture                                                     12.0      11 9    400
Industry                                                       25.4      25.3    30
Manufacturng                                                  15.4     15 3     200
Services                                                       62.7      62 8    100
Pnvate consumption                                                                       sr,   97   sa   99    so   xr
General govemment consumption                                                                    GD1        GDP
Imports of goods and services                                  62.0      63.1
(awenage annual growth)                  1981-91  1991.01     2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                           7 6       2.0       1.5    Iso T
Industry                                             20.8       50       -8.0    100s
Manufacturing                                      13.5       8.0      -5.0
Services                                      ..     30.5       49        71      so
Private consumption                                                                      98   97    go   99    00   01
General govemment consumpton                                                      so
Gross domestic investment                            27.5       4.9       3.0                 Exports    ti-Imports
Imports of goods and services                        17.8      -1 4       2.4
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared viAth its income-group average if data are missing, the diamond vwill be Incomplete
- 76 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domeostic prkcas
(I change)                                                                       20 -
Consumer prices                                                 .6       33       0
Implicit GDP deflator                                          4.9       3.0                                    *
Govemnment flnance                                                               08Y
(% of GDP, includes cufrent grants)                                             .20
Current revenue                                                47.5     47.3    4.
Current budget balance                        ..       ..      -1.2     -0.6           -     GDP denator   e   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      ..       -6.0     -5 4
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      ..      904     1,003    3
n.a.
n.a.
Manufactures                                 ._
Total Imports (cdt)                                           2,558    2,670     10                        |
Fuel and energy                             ..s
Capital goods                               ..       ..
95   96   9?   95   99   55  51
Export price Index (1995=100)        .        ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..         ..       ..                * Expoft     * Inports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
russ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       .      1,364    1,427      o
Imports of goods and services                 ..       .     2,754     2,868
Resource balance                              ..      ..     -1,390   -1,441    -10
Net Income                                    ..               2.55     243
Net current transfers                         .        ..      2,17     192      2
Current account balance                       ..      ..      -918    -1.006    -30
Financing Items (net)                         ..      ..       944     1.761
Changes In net reserves                       ..      ..       -26     -755     -4.
Memwo:
Reserves induding gold (USS mnlilons)         ..      ..       497     1,221
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              ..      ..       2.1       2.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..      2,387    2,226
IBRD                                        ..       .       562      540                      G: 59
IDA                                         ..      ..       398      443
A: 640
Total debt service                            ..      ..       325      300           F: 483
IBRD                                        ..      ..        33       36
IDA                                         ..      ..         3        3
Composition of net resource flows                                                             i
Official grants 1/                          ..      ..       449      384
Official creditors                          ..       ...     233      194
Private creditors                           ..      ..         4        4           E: 493                  8: 443
Foreign direct investment                    .       ..      150
Portfolio equity                            ..                 0        0                    D:117 C: 111
World Bank program
Commitments                                         ..        38      124      A - IBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..      ..        44       62      8- IDA   D - Other muiSatersl  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..      ..         0        5      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   ..      ..        44       56
Interest payments                           ..      ..        36       34
Net transfers                               ..      ..         8       22
uevelopment tc onomics                                                                                           Y/ZNvZ
1/ Sum of official current and capital transfers.
- 77 -



Additional Annex 11: Credit Component
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
I. Credit Line for Commercial Banks (US$ 4.0 million, plus US$ 27,500 for technical assistance)
1.1    Objectives:
To increase access to credit for investment and working capital to agro-processors, traders, producers
associations, and agricultural cooperatives in eastern Herzegovina; and to strengthen the capacity of
conmmercial banks for agricultural lending.
1.2   Implementation:
The financial intermediary credit line would be advanced to government (represented by the Ministries of
Finance of each Entity) as an IDA loan on standard IDA terms and conditions: (a) a 20 year term,
including a 10 year grace period, (b) a service charge of 0.75%, plus a 0.5% commitment fee.
The allocation of this credit line between the two Entities has been decided during final negotiations.
1.2.1 Termns and Conditions of Subsidiarv Loan Agreements with Financial Intermediaries
The Entity Governments would on-lend to Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFI's) on the following
terms and conditions:
(a)    Loan principal would be repaid over a period of 10 years, with equal installments to be repaid at
the end of years 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10. Repayment would be for the full amount advanced, with interest
payable on a declining balance.
(b)    The PFI would pay an interest rate based on the average Euro Libor rate for the preceding six
month period, but not less than 2% and not more than 4% per annum. Interest payments would be made
half-yearly. Interest rate arrangement will be reviewed from time to time to adjust to new Libor rate.
(c)    The PFI interest spread would not be greater than 6% but the spread would be reviewed on a
regular basis and adjusted to reflect the risks and applicable market spreads.
(d)    The PFI would set its own terns and conditions on sub-loans to project beneficiaries according
to best commercial practice. The PFI would assume the full interest rate risk.
(e)    The subsidiary loan would operate as a revolving credit fund. Principle repayments from
sub-loans would be paid into a separate, designated account held by the financial intermediary.
(f)    The financial intermediary would retain the right to lend the revolving funds in this designated
account on terms and conditions of its choosing, provided that further sub-loans are used for
project-related purposes, on equivalent terms to project sub-loans.
(g)    Loan repayments (interest and principal) would be made to the Ministry of Finance.
- 78 -



(h)    PFI's would pay a commitment fee of 100 basis points (one percent) to the Ministry of Finance
on approved funds that are not disbursed unless otherwise agreed by IDA and the Entity Government.
(i)    The subsidiary loan to the PFI would be euro-denominated.
(.)    The PFI would assume the full credit risk on all sub-loans financed under the project.
(k)    The disbursement of PFI credit line would be based on the amount of sub-loans made to final
beneficiaries.
1.2.2  Selection of Partner Financial Intermediaries.
Commercial banks operating in the project area, with a declared interest in expanding agricultural
lending, would be invited to submit formal applications for project participation. A full description of the
procedures for application are specified in the Operational Guidelines.
Initial screening of applicants would be based on their compliance with the following criteria, as
specified in OP 8.30:
(a)    is duly established and licensed to operate in either RS, FBH or both Entities,
(b)    has been in existence for at least two years;
(c)    has a majority of private shares and is deemed to have "fit and proper" management and owners;
(d)    is in compliance with all Banking Agency regulations;
(e)    meets the criteria for portfolio quality, profitability and liquidity required by prudential banking
requirements;
Applicants meeting these initial criteria would then be screened to assess their compliance with the
following additional criteria:
(a)    has an established presence in the project area, including a rural branch network, and adequate
staff and physical resources to implement the lending operations envisaged by the project.
(b)   has a commitment to expand agricultural lending in the project area, and to strengthen its
capacity to appraise and manage agricultural loans.
(c)    agrees to offer sub-loans to project beneficiaries from the project credit line, on conditions which
are consistent with prevailing market conditions and which are suited to agriculture. Prospective partner
financial institutions would be expected to specify these loan conditions in their applications.
1.2.3  Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Loans
- 79 -



Eligible activities include all investments that would lead to increased agricultural production in the
project area. In addition to on-farm production, this includes (but is not restricted to) investment in
sorting, grading and packing; storage and cold storage; and agro-processing. These activities should use
locally grown raw materials. Priority would be given to investments that link production, processing,
storage and marketing.
Loans can be used to finance relevant investment expenditures incurred up to 180 days before the date of
loan approval.
Borrower Equity Contribution for Sub-Loans
For loans above 100,000 e the borrower would be required to make a contribution of 25% of the cost of
the loan proposal.
For loans below 100,000 e the borrower would be required to make a contribution of 15% of the cost of
the loan proposal.
Eligible Borrowers
Individuals or legal entities (joint stock companies, cooperatives, associations, partnerships) that have
been in business for at least two years. The enterprise must be at least 75% privately owned, controlled
and managed commercially.
Owners and management of an enterprise must be "fit and proper" and able to exercise good quality
govemance. Enterprises with owner/shareholders, directors or managers who have criminal records or
who have been indicted for any felony, including war related crimes, will not be eligible. PFIs are
expected to ensure that no PFI sub-loans will be made available to such enterprises, PIU/APCU would
verify that no sub-loans have been made available to such enterprises and if PIU/APCU concluded that
the rule has been breached, it would call the PFI sub-loan to be promptly repaid.
The beneficiary must be engaged in: agricultural production (crops, livestock, fruit, vegetables,
vineyards, olives etc), agro-processing, and marketing of agricultural products, agricultural inputs or
related agri-business activities.
1.2.4 Guidelines for Evaluation of Sub-Loans
PFIs are responsible for identifying prospective sub-borrowers and for determining the type of
sub-project to be financed. The PFI's would also determine the approach to loan evaluation. However
applications for large loans and/or complex investment proposals should be appraised according to the
guidelines specified below.
- 80 -



Financial Criteria
Financial statement over last two years
Creditworthiness
Established business with positive cash flow after debt servicing
Ability to finance 25% of proposed investment from own funds.
Debt-Equity Ratio of no more than 3:1
Minimum Debt Service Coverage of 1.25:1
Business plan
Organization and management structure
Technical ability in the field of proposed business
Technically feasible proposal
Conmmercially viable proposal (test IRR against current prices)
Acceptable scale (availability of local materials and proposed market)
Investment plan
Fully detailed investment proposal
Specification and Design
Current costs (provide quotes where possible)
The assessment should verify that sub-components are technically feasible and financially and
commercially viable, and designed with health, safety and environmental standards which are in full
compliance with local laws and regulations.
Simpler loan appraisal procedures should be applied to smaller sub-projects (with an estimated cost not
exceeding 100,000 E), and to simpler investment proposals (e.g. replacement of machinery and
equipment, or for modernization, rehabilitation or limited expansion of existing enterprises), particularly
with respect to the business and investment plans. These loan appraisals should focus on a review and
assessment of the viability and financial soundness of the potential borrowing enterprise, and its capacity
to service the sub-loan. The assessment should also verify that the proposal is in full compliance with
local enviromental laws and regulations.
1.2.5  Guidelines for the Conditions of Sub-Loans to Proiect Beneficiaries
Final loan conditions would be decided by the PF, but they are expected to reflect the following
guidelines.
Loan Amounts
Investment: up to 350,000 E
Working Capital: up to 100,000 e
Repayment Period
Investment - up to 10 years with a grace period of up to 1 year (3 year grace period for orchards and
vineyards)
Working Capital - up to 18 months with a grace period up to 3 months
Repayment Conditions
Interest to be charged on a declining balance
Repaymnent frequency to be determined by the PFI, based on the cash flow of the borrower.
Within these guidelines, loan conditions would be adjusted according to the type of investment and the
- 81 -



circumstances of the borrower.
1.2.6  Commercial Bank Monitoring Procedures
Monitoring of project credit activities would occur at two levels: review of the standing of the
commercial banks themselves, and review of the use of the project credit line. The PIU/APCU would be
responsible for both review procedures, which would be performed at quarterly intervals. Copies of all
reviews would be sent to the World Bank Task Manager.
Review of the financial standing of the commercial banks would be based on the quarterly reports
submitted by commercial banks to the Banking Agency, and their annual audited accounts. This
informnation would be analyzed by the PIU/APCU to ascertain whether the partner commercial bank
remains in compliance with prudential banking regulations.
Lending from the credit line would be monitored quarterly. Monitoring would include review of loan
applications declined since the last review, loans approved since the last review, and the repayment
performance of all project loans. (Full details in the Operational Guidelines).
1.2.7 Prior Review
(a)    A prior review and no-objection by the World Bank Task Manager would be required for the first
three loans made by the participating financial intermediary, as a means to ensure that it has understood
project guidelines and exercises sound judgement when approving and supervising loans. For the first
three loans deemed suitable by the PFI for approval, the PFI would submit a copy of the loan application
and business plan of the loan applicant, and full details of the loan appraisal and proposed loan offer.
(b)    Subsequent loans over 250,000 euros would also be subject to a prior review and no-objection by
the World Bank Task Manager.
(c)    Subsequent loans lesser than 250,000 euros would not be subject to World Bank review or
no-objection procedures.
1.3.   Technical Assistance:
The project would provide technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of participating financial
intermediaries to evaluate loans from agricultural SME's. Such technical assistance would not only lead
to more informed lending decisions, but also encourage commercial banks to consider a wider range of
loan proposals from the agriculture sector, and so expand their lending to agriculture.
Full terms of reference for this technical assistance are included in the PIP, Annex 1.
1.4.   These understandings were obtianed during Negotiations:
1.     All PFIs sign subsidiary loan Agreements with the relevant Entity Government.
2.     All PFIs agree to support the kinds of investments promoted by the project.
3.     All PFIs agree to the process of project monitoring, plus an annual audit, as the basis for
continued access to the project credit line.
4.     The government agrees to allow PFIs to set loan conditions, according to commercial practice.
II. Credit Line for Micro-Credit Organizations ($US 2.0 million, plus $US 89,000 for technical
- 82 -



assistance)
2.1    Objectives:
To increase access to credit for investment and working capital to small-scale farmers, producers
associations, and agricultural cooperatives in eastern Herzegovina; and to strengthen the capacity of
micro-credit organizations for agricultural lending.
2.2    Implementation:
The micro-credit organization (MCO) credit line will be advanced to government (represented by the
Ministries of Finance of each Entity) as an IDA loan on standard IDA terms and conditions: (a) a 20 year
term, including a 10 year grace period, (b) a service charge of 0.75%, plus a 0.5% commnitment fee.
The allocation of this credit line between the two Entities has been decided during final negotiations.
2.2.1 Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with MCOs
The Entity Governments will on-lend to partner MCOs on the following terms and conditions:
(a)    Loan principal will be repaid over a period of 10 years, with equal instalments to be repaid at the
end of years 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10. Repayment will be for the full amount advanced, with interest payable on a
declining balance.
(b)    The MCO will pay an interest rate based on the average Euro Libor rate for the preceding six
month period, but not less than 2% and not more than 4% per annum. Interest payments will be made
half-yearly. Interest rate arrangement will be reviewed from time to time to adjust to new Libor rate.
(c)    The MCO will assume the full interest risk.
(d)    The MCO will set its own terms and conditions on sub-loans to project beneficiaries with an
interest sufficient to cover the full cost of lending (administrative costs cost of capital, expected loan
losses and inflation) and take into account positive real interests prevailing in the financial markets.
These terms and conditions will be reviewed on a regular basis.
(e)    The subsidiary loan will operate as a revolving credit fund. Principle repayments from sub-loans
will be paid into a designated account held by the micro-credit organization.
(f)    The MCO will retain the right to lend the revolving funds in this designated on terms and
conditions of its choosing, provided that further sub-loans are used for project-related purposes, on
equivalent terms to project sub-loans.
(g)    Loan repayments (interest and principal) will be made to the Ministry of Finance.
(h)    MCO's will pay a commitment fee of 100 basis points (one percent) on approved funds that are
not disbursed, unless otherwise agreed by IDA and the Entity Government..
(i)    The subsidiary loan to the MCO will be Euro denominated.
(j)    The MCO will assume the full credit risk on all sub-loans financed under the project.
-83 -



(k)    The disbursement of credit line to MCOs would be based on the amount of sub-loan made to the
final beneficiaries.
2.2.2  Selection of Partner Micro-Credit Organizations
Micro-credit organizations operating in the project area, with a declared interest in expanding
agricultural lending, will be invited to submit formal applications for project participation.
Initial screening of applicants will be based on their compliance with the following criteria:
(a)    is legally registered as an MCO in either RS, FBH or both entities,
(b)    has been in existence for at least two years;
(c)    meets all the criteria for asset quality, profitability, liquidity and capital adequacy and balance
sheet structure required by a World Bank due diligence assessment;
(d)    has an established presence in the project area, and adequate staff and physical resources to
implement the lending operations envisaged by the project.
(e)    has a commitment to expand agricultural lending in the project area, and to strengthen its
capacity to appraise and manage agricultural loans.
Applicants which meet these initial criteria will then be screened to assess their compliance with the
following additional criteria:
(a)    has an established presence in the project area, including a rural branch network, and adequate
staff and physical resources to implement the lending operations envisaged by the project.
(b)     has a commitment to expand agricultural lending in the project area, and to strengthen its
capacity to appraise and manage agricultural loans.
(c)    Agrees to offer sub-loans to project beneficiaries from the project credit line, on conditions
which are consistent with prevailing market conditions and which are suited to agriculture. Prospective
partner financial institutions will be expected to specify these loan conditions in their applications.
2.2.3  Eligibility Guidelines for Sub-Loans
Eligible activities include all investments that will lead to increased agricultural production in the project
area.
Borrower Equity Contribution for Sub-Loans
The borrower will be required to make an equity contribution of 15% of the cost of the loan proposal.
Eligible Borrowers
Individual farmers or legal entities such as agricultural cooperatives, producer associations, or
- 84 -



partnerships that have been in business for at least two years. The enterprise must be at least 75%
privately owned, managed and controlled commercially.
Individual farmners, owners and management of an enterprise must be "fit and proper" and able to
exercise good quality governance. Individuals or enterprises (with owner/shareholders, directors or
managers) who have criminal records or who have been indicted for any felony, including war related
crimes, will not be eligible. MCOs are expected to ensure that no MCO sub-loans will be made available
to such individuals or enterprises, PIU/APCU would verify that no sub-loans have been made available to
such individuals or enterprises and if PIU/APCU concluded that the rule has been breached, it would call
the MCO sub-loan to be promptly repaid.
The beneficiary must be engaged in: agricultural production (crops, livestock, fruit, vegetables,
vineyards, olives etc), agro-processing, and marketing of agricultural products, agricultural inputs or
related agri-business activities.
2.2.4 Guidelines for the Evaluation of Sub-Loans
MCOs are responsible for identifying prospective sub-borrowers and for determining the type of
sub-project to be financed, based on a careful appraisal of current and future income and cash flows, the
level and form of security available and the borrower's standing in the community. The assessment
should also verify that the proposal is in full compliance with local environmental laws and regulations.
2.2.5  Guidelines for the Conditions of Sub-Loans to Project Beneficiaries
Final loan conditions will be decided by the MCO, but they are expected to reflect the following
guidelines:
Loan Amountsfor investment and working capital: 1,000 - 30,000 KM
Repayment Period
Investment - up to 3 years with a grace period of up to 6 months
Working Capital - up to 12 months with a grace period up to 3 months
Repayment Conditions
Interest to be charged on a declining balance
Within these guidelines, loan conditions will be adjusted according to the type of investment, the
circumstances of the borrower, and the loan products and procedures of the MCO.
2.2.6 MCO Monitoring Procedures
Monitoring of MCO credit activities will occur at two levels: review of the standing of the MCOs
themselves, and review of the use of the project credit line. The project implementation unit will be
responsible for both review procedures, which will be performed at monthly intervals. This closer,
monthly review procedure precludes the need for any prior review of the initial loans.
Review of the financial standing of the MCOs will be based on the monthly reports submitted by MCOs
to the Foundation for Sustainable Development/Development and Employment Fund, and the MCOs
annual audited accounts. This information will be analyzed by the PIU/APCU to ascertain whether the
MCO remains in compliance with the financial indicators specified by LIP II.
- 85 -



The project will not monitor project related lending of partner MCOs on a case-by-case basis. A monthly
summary of project-related lending activity will be submitted to the PIJ/APCU by the MCO for analysis.
A summary of these monthly reviews will be sent to the World Bank Task Manager on a quarterly basis.
2.3    Technical Assistance:
Given favorable conditions for agriculture, and stronger, more innovative management, there is scope for
MCO's to expand their farm lending activities. Recognizing this opportunity, the project includes
provision for technical assistance to (1) strengthen the capacity of MCO's to appraise agricultural loans,
(2) adapt micro loan products to agriculture, and (3) to strengthen the capacity of MCO's to manage loan
portfolios with a higher proportion of agricultural loans. These technical assistance inputs are all
consistent with the broad objective to develop financially sustainable MCOs'. The precise forn of this
technical assistance will depend on the needs perceived and expressed by the MCO's participating in the
project. Final design of this component will also be coordinated with the technical assistance programs
being developed for LIP H.
2.4    These understandings were obtained at Negotiations:
(a)    All MCOs sign Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the relevant Entity Government.
(b)    All MCOs agree to support the kinds of investments promoted by the project.
(c)    All MCOs agree to the process of project monitoring, plus an annual audit, as the basis for
continued project participation and access to the project credit line.
(d)    The government agrees to allow MCOs to set loan conditions according to micro credit best
practice.
- 86 -



Additional Annex 12: Farmer Associations and New-Style Cooperatives Apiculture
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Bosnia and Herzegovina has favorable conditions for the development of apiculture. Species of
honeybee is of the race famous among European beekeepers as a gentle and highly productive bee. The
habitats of the project areas provide excellent forage for honeybees with relatively low or no use of
pesticides and indeed this must be one of Europe's areas with the greatest potential for beekeeping. If
beekeepers were able to transport their bees from one area to another as different vegetations came into
flower, honey could be harvested during eight months of the year. Honey is available not only in
abundant quantity, but of excellent quality too. Beekeeping is a well-known and common activity
throughout the project area. Many beekeepers have excellent practical skills (some are fourth-generation
beekeepers), producing their own equipment, managing the bees effectively, rearing queen bees, and
harvesting and processing good products.
There is little data available concerning total numbers of beekeepers and productivity. Missions
estimated that individual production is between 100 kg and 10 tons and national production could be up
to 3,200 tons of honey. Farmers mentioned that production is limited only by the amount they can sell,
and resources of bees and forage for bees are not perceived as limiting factors. Local bulk prices and
retail prices are well above the world price. Most products are for domestic market and substitLte
imports. Much could be done to increase sales of local honey: improved and diversified packaging,
especially packing in small volumes.
Honey from the project area will have export potential if there is certification. Beekeepers have
been contacted by buyers from France, Gerrnany, Italy, and Switzerland, but they are unable to provide
the certification necessary for export. If honey is to be exported then the exporter must find some aspect
of the honey for which he/she would pay a premium price. One way is to export it as organic honey. The
European organic certification process is increasingly bureaucratic, and Bosnia-Herzegovina exporters
may find the recurrent costs of annual certification prohibitive. Hfowever, this could be done through the
Agriculture Institute at Sarajevo which could possibly qualify to provide organic certification. Another
worthwhile product is beeswax. BiH produces around 160 ton per annum. It is more stable and valuable
than honey: world price currently USD 3,700 per ton. All EU countries are net importers of beeswax and
the world market remains steady.
Constraints for beekeepers
* Lack of technical knowledge and support, especially regarding honeybee disease control, and
marketing skills (product diversification) and standards.
* Non-availability of credit: For small-scale beekeepers (the majority) to increase to basic commercial
level, and for the larger beekeepers to increase significantly their productivity.
* Poor market access.
* Lack of transport, especially to transport beehives.
* Limited product diversity
Constraints for the industry as a whole
* Industry is not organized (beekeepers, processing and marketing).
* Lack of national standards and certification procedures relating to bee products.
* Lack of technical advice and international representation.
* No beekeeping policy and legislation for protection of the industry.
* Lack of apex organization(s) representing the interests of the industry.
- 87 -



* No linkages between producers and buyers.
* No coordination between beekeeping and other sectors: horticulture, forestry, environment sectors
* No product promotion or market support.
Project Intervention: The project would assist in setting up bee-keeper associations in each entity once
these associations demonstrate that significant number of bee-keepers participate and have equity
contribution. The project would finance the cost of getting the associations started , including some
training and technical assistance. Once well-established and operating, the associations could apply for
grant funds for market studies and experiment programs to improve quality and standards. The
associations would quickly developed into a center for technical information and market knowledge, and
also coordinate between beekeepers, product collecting centres and potential purchasers. Collection
centers would be set up to provide volumes and quality available to traders. Beekeepers would possibly
be able to borrow from producer credit for working capital and borrow from enterprise credit for business
development of their association and related commercial activities.
- 88 -



MAI' SECTION






IBRD 32313
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                   l.Uk  100                         30'C tPo" 500
CZECH *P\POLAND K   UKRAINE
u GERMANY  REP.
SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL                                  -     £4sry-EP
AUSTRIA 
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                       T                                   - -HUNGARY
PROJECT                        (sovENAr N. J      -t<    ROMANIA  yjA
PROJECT  (  - r A 1' SnA - -         -
____________                              4UF.C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O VNLA WE'
MAIN ROADS                                     ' ,    N k'          Blo_k
REGIONAL ROADS                  -       ALY 1    1MutENEG¶j BULGARIA  Sea
-      | | e RAILROADS                                       < (FrY- 
-DAYTON AGREEMENT LINE
0    SELECTED CITIES                                       G /  EErAhenoe n  30
_  ~Seo a          GRE.EfE  Aegeon ,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    Sea.  ruRKEY
- 10'1  -         'I  -  f'; -! -'- - 20-
17'30'                   18'00'                   1        Foia
(rnje)
G. Grabovica                    i 
_43'30'Klio                                                         k   ravj
Posuije                                                              Bra
tiki      iBritvica      Bo9od ol
C+3Q, , _,,,_o; {   \   (V>rKrstfc)  G43°00'       k
Ljubuiki                                                     200 3
Pa;dgot             Pol
-'  -  . Li      ~~~~~~~~~Llubuiki                                     Cmr
~~ _~~Zaoslrog  /Pr                           Dabaij  'kDmoGv
~~~~~~~~  0' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
42 30' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mop was ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r,t 430'
o n  ibis  m a p   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _to v
,u~ment~ei~Is~ t~rn qar4Zr~e~: :n ~ Li n        -*HrcgNv
nili ~ ~  ~   ~    soo 
Dra  Bi ec      SERBI~~~ARC 2003









IMAGING
Report No.:        25519   BIH
Type:     PAD



