Report No. PID10558
Project Name                     BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA-SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL (@)
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Agro-industry (299); Irrigation and drainage (25%);
Agricultural marketing and trade (17%); Crops (159);
Agricultural extension and research (14%)
Project ID                       P055434
Borrower(s)                      BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Implementing Agency
Address
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BH and
Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations.
Address: Trg Bih 1
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Momir Tosic, Deputy Minister,
Minister of Foreign
Trade and Economic Relations and
Ms. Bejta Delic, Department Manager,
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of
BH.
BH Federation (FBH):
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Management
Address: Mehmeda Spahe 9
Sarajevo
BH Federation
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Marinko Bozic,
Minister, and Mr. Alojz Dundjer,
Project Director
Tel: (387 33) 233-801
Fax: (387 33) 663-659
Email: piusum@bih.net.ba
Republika Srpska (RS)
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry
Address: Banja Luka
Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Contact Person: Mr. Rodoljub Trkulja,
Minister, and Mr. Zeljko Vasko,
Project Director.
Tel: (387 51) 305-777
Fax: (387 51) 305-776
Email: vasko@rsapcu.org
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 28, 2003



Auth Appr/Negs Date              September 26, 2002
Bank Approval Date               March 25, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Small-scale subsistence farmers, producing food for family consumption and
a small surplus for the market, dominate the agriculture sector in BH but
produce far below their potential. Their productivity is low because of
outdated technology, low-intensity production systems, limited capital for
farm infrastructure and inputs, and lack of irrigation water. Incentives
for farmers to increase marketed surplus are also weak, as the marketing
infrastructure for most agricultural products is poorly developed,
assembly systems are inadequate, and most agro-processors are inefficient
and unable to offer favorable prices, quality control, credit, or
technology to producers. Despite significant (albeit rapidly declining)
support from the international community, most private farmers and
agro-processors still lack the resources to take advantage of the more
open economy of recent years and the new trade, price and subsidy policies
that are conducive to market competition. Farm and rural incomes thus
remain low.
Aside from low productivity, the second critical issue is the limited
availability and low quality of raw materials for agro-processing.
Commercial activity by private farmers and the other agents in the
marketing chain has been negligible due to the collapse of marketing
functions previously carried out by the agro-kombinats and the slow
development of private firms and new-style cooperatives to fill the void.
Many processors are thus compelled to use imported raw materials due to
the difficulty of organizing regular supplies of good-quality local
produce at competitive prices. A new free trade agreement with Croatia
will make it even easier for processors to import raw materials and so
place Bosnian producers at an increased disadvantage until the BH
production base improves.
The agriculture challenge is to increase production of the type and
quality of commodities sought by local markets, in order to replace
imports, and enable local traders and processors to increasingly
participate in international export markets, in particular niche markets.
Bosnian farmers need to quickly reach the point where their output is
purchased by traders and processors in nearby countries, especially in
light of the expanding set of free trade agreements governing regional
agricultural trade. The competitive forces resulting from regional
agricultural trade will promote specialization, improved efficiency,
market integration and higher incomes. Local agricultural and
horticultural production is responding to this challenge, with the
assistance of internationally funded agriculture-sector projects but
progress has been slow.
Food is purported to be safe in Bosnia and it probably is, though it is
not yet certifiably true that meat and plant products are free of disease
and pesticide residues. Inspections are generally done in accordance with
the basic legislation, but lack of uniform, detailed and transparent rules
often result in arbitrary judgments. There is also no monitoring program
to assess risk or confirm food safety and no single office under the
control of the national government that can address the full range of
-2 -



phytosanitary and public health matters as required by the Agreement on
the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures with the EU.
Consequently, any action undertaken by either Entity toward supposed
conformity with EU requirements or international sanitary and
phytosanitary practice might not be recognized unless it is coordinated
nationally.
Government Strategy: The Ministries of Agriculture of the two Entities of
BH - Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBH) and Republika Srpska (RS)
- have (with the assistance of FAO) prepared and adopted a strategy for
agriculture sector development. This strategy views increased productivity
and output from small-scale private farmers and private-sector
agro-processors as critical to future sector development. To this end it
recommends the development of more intensive agriculture systems for
Bosnia's small, fragmented farms. Increased investment in agro-processing
is also indicated as the means to acquire new processing technology,
management skills and the capacity to compete in international markets.
The governments' strategy recognizes and emphasizes the need to strengthen
marketing links between producers and processors so as to increase the
capacity of domestic crop and livestock production to compete with imports
and to develop export markets.
The strategy also addresses deep-seated problems in factor markets.
Numerous measures are proposed to strengthen weak rural land markets, as a
means to reduce land fragmentation, increase farm size and improve the use
of land as collateral. The financial constraints faced by farmers and
other rural economic actors should also be addressed by increasing access
to credit from commercial banks, agricultural cooperatives and
micro-finance organizations. To this end, the Entity governments are now
working on new laws for agricultural cooperatives and micro-finance
institutions. Existing cooperative laws, passed in 1997, which aim to
develop new-style cooperatives according to modern (democratic)
principles, provide a good start but are still weak and inconsistent
between the two entities. GTZ is currently working to strengthen and
harmonize these laws. The Bank is supporting the Entities in the
preparation of a new draft of legislation for micro-finance organizations
and is working with the governments to strengthen the commercial banking
sector.
Despite positive developments in market-based economic reforms, a
substantial reform agenda lies ahead and further economic development
depends on the acceleration of reforms. In support of this process, BH
governments in 2000 drafted their first countrywide economic strategy
entitled "Economic Development: A Global Framework for Bosnia and
Herzegovina". The framework was prepared with the support of local
academics and in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders from
government, productive sectors, civil society and the donor community, and
was approved by the Parliament in June 2001. The strategy's main focus is
on private sector growth to reduce unemployment and poverty, while
restructuring the social safety net to protect the poorest in a
cost-effective way. The strategy recognizes that the sustainability and
efficiency of the economy and strengthened competitiveness is predicated
on attracting long-term investors, and that attracting such investors
required a predictable and coherent policy environment countrywide. The
government's IPRSP (submitted to the Bank and IMF in December 2001) based
-3 -



on the economic strategy adopted by Parliament outlined development
priorities in promoting private sector activity, strengthening the
financial sector and establishing an enabling environment for domestic and
foreign investment. A special focus is placed on agriculture to improve
returns to the working poor, particularly those in rural and semi-urban
areas. In the implementation of the IPRSP and in preparation for the PRSP
earlier this year, the government adopted an action plan to improve the
business environment.
The state is also pursuing parallel efforts to liberalize trade and open
up regional markets. Trade agreements with Croatia, FRY and Macedonia have
been concluded, and similar agreements are expected with Albania, Bulgaria
and Romania. The importance of these agreements is underlined by the fact
that FRY and Croatia constitute 30% and 20%, respectively, of BH's export
markets.
2. Objectives
To develop private, market-integrated commercial agriculture in selected
low-income, high-potential areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH). The
project would (1) encourage farmers to adopt more productive and
profitable production systems and increase the marketability of their
surplus production, (2) assist them in marketing their produce through the
formation of new-style cooperatives and other marketing associations, (3)
create a dynamic commercial agriculture by strengthening the linkages
among farmers and markets through the promotion of private sector
investment in and credit for farming, agro-processing and trading, (4)
facilitate the export of agricultural products, including those aimed at
niche markets, through information and technical assistance and (5)
support measures and investments to strengthen the physical and
institutional infrastructure of rural communities. Through all these
activities, the project would create a more conducive business environment
at farm, company, and municipal levels. The increased production and
productivity resulting from the project would increase farming and other
rural incomes and reduce unemployment and poverty.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA involvement in this project would have significant value added: (1) It
has already brought international experience and expertise in identifying
problems and in doing the initial design of project components and will
provide further technical expertise to work with government preparation
teams during project preparation. (2) IDA expertise on the quality
requirements of international and regional markets and specifically on EU
standards has helped project design and would assist implementation. (3)
The IDA team's emphasis on assessing the risk and the need for
cost-benefit and profitability analysis has improved project design. (4)
The team's emphasis in this project on supporting fully private sector
activities, rather than those of AKs or imperfectly privatized ex-AKs, and
on the linkages throughout the value chain, would result in a more dynamic
agricultural response. (5) International experts would bring new knowledge
and also mobilize unapplied local research knowledge of the key
adaptations that can improve local agricultural and small-scale irrigation
technologies. (6) Coherent knowledge of up-to-date, market-relevant
processing technologies, which is generally lacking in-country, would be
provided. (7) The IDA team's emphasis on training financial institution
staff in agricultural project analysis and beneficiaries and
- 4 -



beneficiary-support organizations (e.g., cooperatives) in project
preparation, would result in sounder project activities and a more
pro-active approach by financial institutions. (8) Finally, the IDA's role
in bringing the Entity governments into agreement on a common strategy is
important, and its catalytic role in helping other international donors
channel resources into the project area could be critical.
4. Description
The project would concentrate its activities in Southeastern Bosnia and
Herzegovina which includes Trebinje Popovo Polje, Trebinje Polje Ljubinje,
Berkovici and Bileca (RS) and Dubrava Plateau, Ljubuski, Capljina and
Stolac (FBH). The population in the project area is estimated at 137,600.
Of the total, 75,900 are in FBH (Mostar 9,900 SE, Capljina 26,000,
Ljubuski 28,000 and Stolac 12,000), and 61,700 are in RS (Trebinje 37,500,
Ljubinje 5,500, BileIa 14,700 and BerkoviIi 4,000). The area has a
Mediterranean climate, which is favorable for early production of fruit
and vegetables, has potential on-farm irrigation resources and continues
to have traditional trade links with neighboring countries. This area was
impoverished by the war but has the potential to respond readily to a
revitalization program. The focus of the project is thus on commercial
agriculture as a mechanism for revitalizing the local economy. Background
information for the project area can be found in Annex 2.
The project would have four components: Market Integration, Private
Agribusiness Support, Commercial Farmer Support, and project management.
(I) Market Integration Component (US$ 1.5 million)
This component would strengthen the linkages among farmers, private
agribusiness producers and markets that are necessary for a dynamic
commercial agriculture and promote the development of local farmer,
processor and trader associations and new-style cooperatives.
(a) Market development. The project would improve provision of market
information to all participants in the value chain. This would principally
be achieved by assisting farmer organizations, new-style cooperatives,
processor and trader associations and government agencies in developing
market information services and in techniques for dissemination of this
information. Support would include market study, training, workshops,
publications, and technical assistance.
(b) Quality Improvement. The project would assist in the development of
quality specifications and food safety that would be consistent with
market opportunities and the legal requirements of the EU and other
international markets. It would assist in the development of optimum
quality throughout the production and marketing chain, which would be
consistent with market opportunities and food safety requirements in
domestic and international markets and with producer resources. The
project would finance technical assistance for quality specifications and
training programs in sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) and Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Point (HACCP) subjects. The project would also finance
innovative quality improvement programs and certification systems for
potential export products.
(c) Cooperative and Association Development. The project would strengthen
existing and develop new farmer groups, associations and marketing
cooperatives to enable small farmers to effectively participate in
high-quality agricultural markets. These organizations can schedule
- 5 -



production, collect farmer output, grade and pack produce and provide
market information, quality control, technology and credit. The project
would finance review and disseminate the experience of the more advanced
groups, associations and cooperatives in and outside project areas and in
other countries, train farmer groups, associations and cooperatives and
support programs to establish and strengthen associations for bee-keepers,
fruit and vegetable producers and meat and dairy producers in the two
entities. Cooperatives could apply both for competitive grant funds and
credit from commercial banks and MCOs and receive periodic short-term
technical assistance and training.
(II) Private Agribusiness Support Component (US$ 4.06 million)
This component would strengthen the roles of private agricultural business
so they could provide effective demand for primary output and add value to
agriculture products. This component has three sub-components as follows:
(a) Development of Bankable Proposals. The project would facilitate access
to bank credit by commercial farmers, processors, packers, traders,
cooperatives and private wholesale markets to finance profitable
agricultural production, processing and marketing investments. Potential
agribusiness project participants would be required to meet project
eligibility criteria for inclusion in the program and would develop
proposals to be presented to commercial banks for appraisal. In
particular, the processors, packers and traders selected would have to
have sustainable market prospects back-linked to production capabilities
in the project area. The project would provide training and assistance in
setting up and training a group of economists and financial analysts to
provide advice and assistance to farmers, agro-processors and traders in
preparing business plans to obtain loans from commercial banks.
(b) Enterprise Credit. The project would provide funds to participating
commercial banks which would onlend to agriculture enterprises in the
project areas. The funds would be repaid over a period of 10 years at an
interest rate based on the six month Euro Libor rate. Interest rates will
be assessed at six monthly intervals and interest payments will be made
half-yearly. The participating commercial banks would assume the full
interest risk and would on-lend to final beneficiaries on market terms.
Participating banks would be selected from an approved short-list of
commercial banks that have passed due diligence tests, meet project
criteria, have expressed willingness to lend to agriculture, have branches
in the project areas and have staff available to be trained in appraising
agriculture loans.
(c) Technical assistance would be provided to participating banks for
training staff in appraising agriculture project proposals and the design
of loan terms suited to agriculture and agribusiness.
(III) Commercial Farmer Development Component (US$ 6.7 million)
The project would focus on improved technologies to support market-led
producer diversification, specialization and intensification, facilitate
access of commercial farmers to micro-credit and improve reliability of
water supplies.
(a) Technology Development. Through a Competitive Grant Program (CGP),
this sub-component would support individual producers, community groups
and agricultural processors to test and develop technology appropriate to
- 6 -



identified market opportunities. The Grant Program would build
institutional capacity of public and private rural service providers to
support farmers, agricultural processors and other rural entrepreneurs.
The project would provide approximately 30 applied research grants, of up
to 18,500, for new crop varieties, improved farm practices, higher
yields, improved quality, reduced production costs, and value adding
strategies for existing and new products and markets. It would also
support 30 technology demonstrations on farmers' fields and in assembly
markets and processing industries to test or transfer new and adapted
technology clearly linked to defined market opportunities. The ceiling on
demonstration projects is 5,000. Technology demonstrations, to test or
transfer new and adapted technology, would be managed by farmer groups on
members fields under the guidance of an agricultural advisor. Processing
demonstration would also be done in participating processing plants or
institutions in the project areas.
Demonstration projects proposed during project preparation ranged from new
crop variety demonstration, new livestock production technologies to new
materials for packaging and processing and improved quality of final
products; greenhouse production; and improved packaging. Evaluation
criteria, found in the Competitive Grant Program Operations Manual,
include environmental impact.
(b) Micro-Credit. The project would facilitate access for individual small
and medium-sized farmers to finance for small capital improvements and
working capital through existing eligible micro-credit organizations
(MCOs). Producers in the project area see lack of micro-credit as a major
constraint to increasing their commercial farming activities. It is
anticipated these credits would be used primarily for equipment, e.g.
tractors, and agriculture inputs, e.g. seeds. Sub-loans by the MCOs for
agriculture-related activities in the project areas, would be in the range
of 1,000 - 30,000 KM with the MCOs assuming all of the risk. The project
would also include provision for technical assistance to (1) design, test
and introduce micro-credit products more suited to agriculture, (2) to
strengthen the capacity of MCO's to appraise agricultural loans, and (3)
to strengthen the capacity of MCO's to manage loan portfolios with a
higher proportion of agricultural loans. Terms of Reference for this TA
can be found in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
(c) Irrigation Rehabilitation. The project would finance improvements in
irrigation where these would be used by private farmers to increase
productivity and the quality of their commercial production. It would
involve redesign, repair and improvement of existing irrigation systems
serving private farmers. The improvements proposed in Lubushki and
Trebinje would include (i) cleaning of main canals, drains and removal of
debris, (ii) repair of diversion weirs, structures, flood banks, and canal
and drainage channel banks, (iii) repair of gates at the main diversion,
control and drainage structures, (iv) improvement of access to control
structures and to gates (v) improvement in outlets to farms and (vi)
assistance in water management and the formation of water users groups.
The improvement proposed in Dubrava Plateau would include development of
water harvesting systems and formation of water user groups. The initial
works proposed for each area would act as the catalyst to small farmers to
improve on-farm channels by ensuring reliable water delivery near to their
farm gate. Irrigation investments financed by the project would be
designed to be economic by avoiding capital- and electricity-intensive
systems in favor of low-cost systems already in use in the project areas.
-7 -



The project would strengthen capacity of existing water user associations
in management of the on-farm irrigation system including operation and
maintenance and to assist farmers to form new effective self-financing
water user groups.
(IV) Project Management (US$ 1.87 million)
The project would strengthen project implementation units in both the FBH
and RS. It would increase existing capability to manage day-to-day project
activities and coordinate work with local implementation units. The
project would finance consultants, incremental staff, office equipment,
vehicles and other operating expenses related to the project.
Market Integration
Private Agribusiness
Commercial Farmers
Project Management Support
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $12.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY $2.13
Total Project Cost $14.13
6. Implementation
Periods of Implementation: The project would be implemented over a
six-year period from FY 2004-2009. Project effectiveness is expected to be
by July 2003 and the mid-term review would be by June 30, 2006. The
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009 and the closing date
would be December 31, 2009.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: BH would be the borrower of
IDA funds and would onlend the proceeds to FBH and RS. It would also
establish special accounts and make arrangements for auditing. The
Ministries of Finance of both entities would be responsible for channeling
the IDA credit proceeds to the Ministries of Agriculture from both
entities, providing counterpart funding and later repaying the credit.
The Ministries of Agriculture would oversee project implementation. For
this purpose, they have streamlined project management within their
existing units. The RS government has an Agriculture Project Coordination
Unit (APCU) to oversee all externally financed, agriculture-related
projects. The SSCAD project would be managed by this unit with an
additional provision for an irrigation engineer, an agriculturist, a
financial assistant and a monitoring and evaluation specialist to
supervise the implementation of the project. The FBH Minister of
Agriculture assigned the management of this project to the project
management team of the existing Forestry Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). As in the RS, this project would share the director, financial
manager and procurement officer, and the government would also provide an
irrigation engineer, an agriculturist, a financial assistant and a
monitoring and evaluation specialist to supervise the implementation of
the project. During negotiations, it was agreed that the Entity
Governments would maintain PIU/APCU with qualified staff acceptable to IDA
- 8 -



until project completion.
In addition to being responsible for the implementation of the Forestry
Project and the SSCAD, the FBH PIU will also assume responsibility for the
next forestry project, the Forestry Development Project. In RS, in
addition to WB-financed projects, the APCU is also responsible for the
implementation of projects financed by the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) i.e., the Livestock and Rural Financing
Development Project.
The PIU/APCU would facilitate the operation of the competitive grant funds
and oversee the funds on-lent to commercial banks and MCOs under
enterprise and micro credit sub-components. The competitive grant funds
would be managed jointly by both Entities under by a Joint Competitive
Grant Committee (JCGC). The committee would be composed of representatives
of the private farming sector, private agribusiness, the agricultural
science community and the Entity ministries of agriculture in equal number
between the Entities. The chairperson and a deputy would be elected by the
members of the committee. The JCGC would be responsible for determining
the priority problem areas, for soliciting applications for research and
privately delivered technology demonstrations, and for approving grants,
work programs and budgets. It would review progress reports and direct the
monitoring and evaluation of the projects funded under the program. The
PIU/APCU agriculturists from the two Entities would constitute a
two-member secretariat for the JCGC, coordinate the competitive review
process and ensure that procurement and disbursement procedures specified
in the CG operations manual were strictly followed. The secretariat would
report administratively to the respective PIU directors and, on technical
matters, to the JCGC. An appointment of a JCGC satisfactory to IDA is a
condition of disbursement for this category.
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) and micro-credit
organizations would be responsible for the credit that would be lent to
final beneficiaries. Eligible financial institutions are being
short-listed and invited to apply for inclusion in the project. Final
selection will be made in association with the Entity Governments on the
basis of agreed criteria. All the PFIs and MCOs would sign subsidiary
credit agreements with respective Entity Government. All PFIs and MCOs
would agreed (a) to support the kinds of investments promoted by the
project, (b) to the process of monitoring, plus an annual audit, as the
basis for continued project participation and access to the project credit
line and (c) the government agreed to allow PFIs and MCOs to set loan
conditions according to best commercial and micro credit financing
practices. Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
The PFIs, after selection, would be allowed to set loan terms and
conditions within the agreed guidelines and according to commercial best
practice. The PFIs would extend sub-loans to project financial
beneficiaries at market rates. The MCOs would set its interest at a level
sufficient to cover the full cost of lending (administrative costs cost of
capital, expected loan losses and inflation) and take into account
positive real interests prevailing in the financial markets. These terms
and conditions would be reviewed on a regular basis to reflect changes in
market conditions. Banks and MCOs would be monitored according to the
Operational Guidelines.    Monitoring of the final beneficiaries would be
-9-



on a random basis. The progress of all final borrowers would be followed
through contact with relevant producer associations and participating
financial institutions.
Water management would be handled by various level of organizations as
follows:
Vodno Podrucje Slivova Jadranskog Mora in Mostar, a public company for the
Adriatic Sea Catchment Area (on behalf of the FBH Government) and
Directorate for Water Management (on behalf of the RS Government) are
responsible for assets of national interest, such as flood dykes, main
drainage and outfall structures, main weirs, water management and the
quality and quantity of water use.
Vodoprivreda, a private company contracted by the municipality and canton
governments in the project area is responsible for the day-to-day
operation of irrigation systems. Its tasks would include: main system
operation and maintenance, conclusion of agreements on water demand with
the WUAs before the beginning of the irrigation season, allocation of
water at the beginning of the season, assistance to the WUAs on
preparation of their annual O&M plans, and preparation of documents for
contractors. Its responsibilities include collection and analysis of
regular flow measurements and water-quality analyses.
Under the project, the Municipal Water Companies would provide technical
advice, planning and implementation assistance to the WUAs. They would
continue their roles in the O&M and execution of the large and strategic
facilities and the more complicated engineering tasks. They would be
involved in the engagement and supervision of contractors for all routine
and annual maintenance tasks and in ensuring the maintenance of the
facilities of national interest, such as flood dykes and main drains.
Water User Groups would be responsible for managing their own parts of the
systems, including all of their system from the weir off-take from the
river down to individual farmer fields. The main Water User Association
for each zone would typically be made up of a number of small water user
groups based on secondary or tertiary canal systems.
Research and Agricultural Institutes. The project would draw on the
existing capacity and experience of agricultural research institutes both
in FBH and RS, both for technical support to the innovative research and
demonstration programs of the project and for training. Researchers from
these institutes would be eligible, typically in groups, to apply for
competitive grants to do research that would benefit farmers in the
project areas. In FBH, these institutes are the Agriculture Institute
Sarajevo, the Agricultural Institute in Mostar and three specialized
veterinary institutions including the Veterinary Center at the Veterinary
Faculty of the University of Sarajevo and veterinary institutes in Tuzla
and Mostar. In RS, the institutes are the Agriculture Institute of Banja
Luka, the Veterinary Institute at Banja Luka, Faculty of Agriculture in
Banja Luka and Faculty of Agriculture in Sarajevo.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of project activities and investments in the commercial
agriculture development component would come from the profitable
commercial activities undertaken by experienced and trained participants,
such as farmers producing higher-value marketable output and processors
and traders participating profitably in local and export markets for
upgraded agricultural goods. Some of the linkages and supports for
- 10 -



production and marketing would be sustained in the course of successful
production and marketing activities (e.g., quality control of farmer
output by grading in processor and cooperative procurement). Other
supports would come from the continuing activities of farmer, processor
and trader associations (e.g., market and technical information and
training), which would be sustained by member contributions and perhaps
NGO or EU funds. Still other support would come from the continuing supply
of credit by bank and micro-credit institution lending programs developed
under the project. These institutions would build on previous experience
in agricultural lending and augment it under the project. The supply of
credit would continue after the project at near-project levels because
project funds would revolve and because high enough interest rates would
cover credit risk, which would itself be reduced by training in project
design and analysis.
Irrigation and market facilities would be kept in good working condition
by (i) cost recovery, at least sufficient to cover operating costs, and
(ii) commitment by the government to fund the maintenance and operating
costs of any wholesale market facilities provided as a public good. The
latter is unlikely to be a significant percentage of either the MAFWE or
the local government budget.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Although past projects to assist agriculture in BH and other transition
economies succeeded in restocking livestock and replacing equipment, they
have not resulted in sustained growth of production, incomes or employment
because they did not provide effective technical support and did not link
to processing and marketing.
The Bank-financed Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project in Bosnia, while
providing social benefits to farmers, rarely led to profitable farming
activities. Most farmers assisted by the project lacked both technical
knowledge to care for the type of livestock provided and funds to purchase
proper feed. Productivity and repayment rates were both low. The little
surplus generated beyond household consumption was not profitably
marketable because of small unit size and lack of collection points and
market facilities. In this proposed project, the emphasis would be on
support for small-to-medium-sized commercial farmers and processors,
rather than the poorest households, who nevertheless would be likely to
gain from the developing local agricultural economy.
A second lesson is that the previous projects did not have time to
adequately consult beneficiaries and match their specific needs. Financial
institutions also did not participate in selection of beneficiaries and
formulation of lending arrangements. The proposed project has been
designed with the participation of the beneficiaries and lenders.
Strengthening the capacity of farmers and local, private agro-processors
and traders to evaluate their needs is one of the major activities of the
project. The appraisal mission reviewed 75 business proposals from
commercial farmers, processors and cooperatives located in RS and FBH.
Potential participating banks and MCOs were consulted during project
preparation on financial arrangements, the criteria to be used in
evaluating loan applications from final beneficiaries and training of
their staff.



A third lesson learned in Bank projects in general is that cost recovery
is feasible and desirable. Profitable project activities and investments
and, thus, the ability of beneficiaries to repay loans would be required
for loan approval under the project. The commercial agriculture and
agribusiness components would aim to ensure repayment by focusing on
measures to improve the productivity and quality of farms and processors,
strengthen market links and raise farm incomes. Careful loan appraisal and
close monitoring of borrower progress can strengthen the prospects for
profitable investment and timely loan repayment.
A fourth set of lessons learned for competitive grant schemes in several
countries is that (a) total commitment from the government and the
managing organization to the concept of competitive grants is essential;
(b) extensive consultation with potential participants is necessary to
ensure awareness, ownership and enthusiastic participation; (c) the
proposals may initially be small and poorly focused but over time there
will be improvement as the applicants and recipients become more aware of
the benefits of participation; (d) project quality gradually improves as
experience and awareness of the value of accurately articulated proposals
for successful competition becomes accepted; (e) small management units
are more popular than large and bureaucratic units (f) transparency in
decision making is essential, and (g) close monitoring and auditing of
grants to ensure strict adherence from the start to the rules of the
program sets the framework for future participants, reducing subsequent
implementation issues.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The direct environmental impact of the rehabilitation part of the projects
is expected to be small to insignificant. However, negative impacts of the
project could potentially come from: (i) increased agrochemical pollution
and surface water contamination, resulting from increased use of
pesticides and fertilizers and increased circulation of irrigation water;
(ii) soil erosion associated with existing practices of agricultural
production due to increased production; (iii) indiscriminate dumping of
excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains
and structures during construction and maintenance; and (iv) environmental
damage caused by contractors during construction activities.
This project is designed to support investment in agri-businesses to
develop local agriculture through the support of farmers within a wide
range of fruit, vegetable, herb and livestock products. This will result
in a relatively small number of medium-scale loans to agri-businesses
through a financial intermediary bank (FIS) and credit to small farmers
and agri-businesses through micro credit organizations (MCOs). It is not
possible to review the environmental aspects of the sub-loans at present;
however, the participating bank and MCO staff would be trained to evaluate
loan applications based on Bank's Environmental Guidelines for Financial
Intermediary Loans.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
- 12 -



Rapeepun Jaisaard
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-4057
Fax:   (202) 614-0698
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 7, 2003.
- 13 -



