Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
E627
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Small Scale Commercial
Agricultural Development Project
Environmental Assessment
August 2002
,~~~~~~i . 
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Sarajevo, August 2002.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.
FILE      COP~~~~~~~~~~~Yl



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
General Information
Contract Information
Contract 5069 was signed on 20.07.2002 between the Federal government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Utility and Forestry (PIU
Forestry), on one side and Bosna-S Oil Services Company on the other.
Financing organization
The Environmental Assessment study is financed by The World Bank, Washington D.C., USA.
Consultant
Bosna-S Oil Services Company
Nova st. 26, 71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Tel: +387 33 278 040
Fax: +387 33 200 074
Email: info a.bosna-s.ba
Web: www.bosna-s.ba
EA Team
Domagoj Baci6, B.Sc. Mech. Eng.
Esma Kreso, B.Sc. Env. Eng.
Savo Radovic, B. Sc. Civ. Eng.
Ivica Katalini6, B. Sc. Civ. Eng.
Semsudin Had2iefendic, B.Sc. Mech. Eng.
Fethi Silajdzic, B.Sc. Mech. Eng.
Sabina Hodzic, B.Sc. Mech. Eng.
Nino Hodzic, B.Sc. Computer Sc.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms
EA          Environmental Assessment
FBiH        Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
RS          Republika Srpska
BiH         Bosnia and Herzegovina
SSCADP      Small Scale Commercial Agricultural Development Project
WUA        Water User Associations
FWUA        Federations of Water User Associations
Ha          Hectare
HE          Hydro Power Plant
TMT river   Tihaljina-Mlada-Trebizat River
RH          Republic of Croatia
NEAP BiH National Environmental Action Plan BiH
SFRJ        Socialistic Federal Republic Yugoslavia
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
ESC         Environmental Steering Committee
SR BiH       Socialist Republic Bosnia and Herzegovina (within Ex-Yugoslavia)
SFRJ         Socialistic Federal Republic Yugoslavia
HR           Republic of Croatia
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
Executive Summary
The project objective is to develop private, market-integrated commercial agriculture in selected low-
income, high-potential areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The project would (1) encourage fanners
to adopt more profitable production systems and increase their surplus of more marketable
commodities, (2) assist them in marketing their produce through the formation of new-style
cooperatives and other marketing associations, (3) create a dynamic commercial agriculture by
strengthening the linkages among farmers and markets through the promotion of private sector
investment in agro-processing and trading, and (4) support measures and investments to strengthen
the physical and institutional infrastructure of rural communities. Through all these activities, the
project would create a more conducive business environment at farm, company, and municipal
levels. The increased production and productivity resulting from the project would increase farming
and other rural incomes and reduce unemployment and poverty. The project would have four
components: (I) Market Integration, (II) Private Agri-Business Support, (III) Commercial Farmer
Support, and (IV) Project Management.   Project components with potential for negative
environmental impacts are:
Component II Sub-component B - Enterprise Credit
Component III Sub-component A - Technology Development
Component III Sub-component B - Micro-Credit
Component III Sub-Component C - Irrigation Rehabilitation
With the exception of Component I11.C, the environmental impacts of the other sub-components
cannot be determined at this time as the activities which will be funded will only be identified during
project implementation by the financial intermediary (FI), making these category "Fl" sub-
components. The Fl for Component II Sub-component B - Enterprise credit, will be a commercial
bank. The Fl for Component III Sub-component B - Micro-credit will be an existing micro-credit
organization with experience with other similar World Bank financed projects.  The Fl for
Component III Sub-component A - Technology Development, will be the State Competitive Grants
Committee. It is not possible to review the environmental aspects of the sub-loans, credits and grants
at present. For the loans and credits, the project operations manual includes an appendix on
"General Guidelines for Identification and Analysis of Environmental Impacts of Project Loan
Activities" which includes the mechanisms and responsibilities for environmental screening and
review of proposals. For the grants, the guidelines related to environmental screening, review and
monitoring are provided in an apendix to the project operations manual, "Competitive Grants
Program for Technology and Market Development." The FIs would be trained to evaluate loan
applications based on Bank's Environmental Guidelines for Financial Intermediary Loans.
Investments under Component III Sub-Component C - Irrigation Rehabilitation,  have been
identified, and are the subject of this environmental assessment.  The project would finance the
rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation and drainage systems in the project areas. No new structure of
significant size would be built under the project. There is also no new land acquisition and no
resettlement of people because of the rehabilitation activities.
The direct environmental impact of the irrigation rehabilitation sub-component is expected to be
small to insignificant. The project would rehabilitate existing small irrigation facilities, which are
unlikely to create adverse environmental impacts. No new structure of significant size would be
built under the project. There is also no new land acquisition and no resettlement of people because
of the rehabilitation activities. There are no protected areas or natural or cultural sites within the
project area. However, negative impacts of the project could potentially come from: (a) increased
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       iv



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
agrochemical pollution and surface water contamination, resulting from increased use of pesticides
and fertilizers and increased circulation of irrigation water; (b) soil erosion associated with existing
practices of agricultural production due to increased production; (c) indiscriminate dumping of
excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains and structures during
construction and maintenance; and (d) environmental damage caused by contractors during
construction activities. Livestock are not seen as a potential environmental threats as they will be
held in small numbers and by widely distributed private farmers, mostly under loss housing
conditions and their excrement will be collected for field fertilization. On the other hand, the project
is expected to have positive environmental effects through: (a) cleaning of main canals, drains and
removal of deposited debris and other unwanted materials; (b) repair and improvement of flood
banks, and canal and drainage channel banks; (c) promotion of improved land use practices and
farming methods; (d) modernizing and improvement of agricultural product processing; (e) removal
of areas of stagnant and standing water through cleaning of drainage canals and drainage systems; (f)
reduction of areas of potential erosion hazard around structures, diversion weirs, outfalls from
structures (g) improvement of water management by providing better access to control structures and
to gates, improvement of outlets to farms and the formation of water users groups and other
assistance in water management; and (h) strengthening local capacities in environmentally
sustainable approaches to agricultural development through training and capacity building. The
project would provide training programs in farm and business management, co-operative
management, agricultural marketing, water management, and participatory monitoring and
evaluation.
Mitigation measures provided under the project to address potential negative environmental impacts
include:
*     Provision on a continuing basis of extension and advisory services, as well as specific
training in fertilizers and pesticides as to proper application techniques, timing and handling of
residues. This training in careful use of fertilizers and chemicals, and the continuing extension and
advisory services to disseminate best practice is expected to keep the negative impact of increased
input use to a minimum.
*     Regular training and continuing advice in improved irrigation management practices would
reduce soil erosion within irrigation schemes and consequently reduce the environmental impact of
sedimentation on rivers.
*     During project design and supervision, contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or
mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris would be displaced in an orderly manner
in approved paths or in landfill or dump sites, rather than dumped indiscriminately. Reuse of
excavated materials would be specifically directed, where suitable, limiting the need for old and new
quarries. Where possible, existing quarries would be used for required additional materials.
Contractors would also have to restore landscape to quasi-original condition after completion of
rehabilitation works and after use of quarries. The details of environmental precautionary clauses for
contractor works would be included in the bidding documents for proposed rehabilitation and
improvement works. If these are implemented and enforced well, there should be no or minimal
impact on the environment.
Environmental management plans have been prepared which include mitigation measures for
impacts related to the construction and operation phases of the project. Environmental monitoring
plans have been prepared which include:
*     Pesticides, chemicals and fertilizer levels would be measured at selected and representative
sites within the main irrigation systems. Measurements would take place three times per irrigation
season (March, May and September) by cantonal environment staff. They would also analyze the
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        v



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
samples with portable field kits. International thresholds would be used that would signal need for
corrective actions. If the river water were above the allowable norm for longer periods, corrective
measures would have to be implemented. These would include increased training and extension
activities and possibly reductions in the use of inputs.
*     Soil erosion would be assessed by Cantonal environment inspectors, especially in identified
problem areas. Measurements would take place during both the irrigation and the rainy season. If the
level of soil erosion reaches levels where it would cause damage to river systems and downstream
irrigation systems, training efforts would be intensified.
*     Contractors' activities would be supervised by the local municipal or consulting engineers
and monitored by Cantonal environment inspectors. Any damage done by a contractor to the
environment would have to be rectified at their expense.
The EA concluded that the project would not have any impact on quantity or quality of water flow to
Croatia.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        Vi



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Table of Contents                                                          Page No.
General Information ............... ii
Executive Summary                              ..                           iv
1. Background.                                                              1
1.1 Project Overview .
2.2 Environmental Impacts .3
1.3 Need for the Project .3
1.4    Objectives of the Environmental Assessment .4
2.   Small Scale Community Agricultural Development Project (SSCADP).        5
2.1    Description of Irrigation Component               .5
2.2 Project Objective.                                                       5
3. Project Area Description.                                                 6
3.1    Map of BiH with a focus on the project area .12
3.1.1  BiH with position of project areas  ..12
3.1.2  South East Herzegovina with position of project areas  . .12
3.1.3 Average precipitation         ..13
3.1.4 Average yearly. temperatures      ..13
3.1.5 Average temperatures in July       ..14
3.1.6  Details of project in Trebinje area  ..15
4.   Review of National Policies and International Water-Sharing Agreementsl6
4.1 Introduction                              .16
4.2 Institutional framework .16
4.3    Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina .16
4.4 Republika Srpska .17
4.5 Inter-entity bodies                          .17
4.6    Legal framework at the state level              .18
4.7    Legal framework in Federation BiH                .18
4.7.1  Legal framework at federal level               ..18
4.8    Legal framework at cantonal level .20
4.9    Legal framework in Republika Srpska .21
4.10   Intemational Water Sharing Agreements                                23
5.   Baseline Data on the Environment of the Project Area .24
6. Analysis of Alternatives .32
7. Environmental Management Plan .33
7.1    Environmental Management Plan (EMP) .34
8. Waste Management Strategy .45
9. World Bank Safeguards Analysis .46
10.    Environmental Monitoring Plan .47
11. Institutional Arrangements .55
11.1   Institutional and User Strengthening and Training .55
12. Schedule .57
13. Public Consultation .57
14. Conclusion .57
Appendices list              .......... 59
Literature .......... 45
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        vii



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
1.    Background
1.1    Project Overview
The goal of the Bosnia Small-Scale Commercial Agriculture Development Project (SSCAD) is to
develop private, market-integrated commercial agriculture in selected low-income, high-potential
areas of Bosnia Herzegovina. The project would (1) encourage farmers to adopt more profitable
production systems and increase their surplus of more marketable commodities, (2) assist them in
marketing their produce through the formation of new-style cooperatives and other marketing
associations, (3) create a dynamic commercial agriculture by strengthening the linkages among
farmers and markets through the promotion of private sector investment in agro-processing and
trading, and (4) support measures and investments to strengthen the physical and institutional
infrastructure of rural communities. Through all these activities, the project would create a more
conducive business environment at farm, company, and municipal levels. The increased production
and productivity resulting from the project would increase farming and other rural incomes and
reduce unemployment and poverty. The project would has four components: (I) Market Integration,
(II) Private Agri-Business Support, (III) Commercial Farmer Support, and (IV) Project Management,
as described below. Project sub-components and activities which could have environmental impacts
are in italics and described in more detail later in this assessment.
(I)   Market Integration Component (US$ 1.22 million)
This component would strengthen the linkages among farmers, private agri-business producers and
markets that are necessary for a dynamic commercial agriculture and promote the development of
local farmer, processor and trader associations and new-style cooperatives. The component's sub-
components are:
(a)   Market development. The project would improve provision of market information to
all participants in the value chain. This would principally be achieved by assisting farmer
organizations, new-style cooperatives, processor and trader associations and government agencies in
developing market information services and in techniques for dissemination of this information.
Support would include training, workshops, publications, and technical assistance.
(b)   Quality Improvement. The project would assist in the development of optimum
quality throughout the production and marketing chain, which would be consistent both with market
opportunities and legal requirements in EU and other international markets and with producer
resources. The project would finance technical assistance and training programs and the certification
costs for export products.
(c)   Cooperative and Association Development. The project would strengthen farmer
associations and marketing cooperatives to enable small farmers to effectively participate in high-
quality agricultural markets. These organizations can schedule production, collect farmer output,
grade, pack and be conduits of market information, quality control, technology and credit. Periodic
short-term technical assistance and training would be also provided.
(II)  Private Agri-Business Support Component (US$ 4.05 million)
This component would strengthen the roles of private agricultural business so they could provide
effective demand and add value to agriculture products. This component has three subcomponents as
follows:
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
(a)   Development of Bankable Proposals. The project would facilitate access to bank
credit by commercial farmers, processors, packers, traders, cooperatives and private wholesale
markets to finance profitable agricultural production, processing and marketing investments. Potential
agri-business project participants would be required to meet project eligibility criteria for inclusion in
the program and would develop proposals to be presented to commercial banks for appraisal. The
processors, packers and traders selected would have to have sustainable market prospects back-linked
to production capabilities in the project area. Guidelines for preparation and evaluation of the
proposals would include environmental review of the proposals. The project would provide technical
assistance to farmers, agro-processors and traders in preparing business plans.
(b)   Enterprise Credit. The project would provide funds to participating commercial
banks, which would onlend to agriculture enterprises in the project areas. Participating banks would
be selected from an approved short-list of commercial banks that have passed due diligence tests,
meet project criteria, express willingness to lend to agriculture, have branches in the project areas and
have staff trained in appraising agriculture loans.
(c)   Technical assistance would be provided to participating banks for developing
financial packages suitable for agriculture and training staff in appraising agriculture project proposals
and agri-business management training.
(III) Commercial Farmer Development Component.(US$ 7.61 million)
The project would focus on improved technologies to support market-led producer diversification,
specialization and intensification, facilitate access of commercial farmers to micro-credit and improve
reliability of water supplies.
(a)   Technology Development. Through a Competitive Grant Program, this sub-
component would support individual producers, community groups and agricultural processors to test
and develop technology appropriate to identified market opportunities. The Grant Program would
build institutional capacity of public and private rural service providers to support farmers,
agricultural processors and other rural entrepreneurs. The project would provide approximately 40
applied research grants, of up to $20,000, for new varieties, higher yields, improved quality, reduced
production costs, and value adding strategies for existing and new products and markets. It would also
support 25 technology demonstrations on farmers' fields and in assembly markets and processing
industries to test or transfer new and adapted technology clearly linked to defined market
opportunities. The ceiling on demonstration projects is $5,000. Demonstration projects proposed
during project preparation include materials for ice-cream production and improved chess production;
greenhouse production; and improved packaging. Evaluation criteria, found in the Grants Operations
Manual, include environmental impact.
(b)   Micro-Credit. The project would provide access for individual small and medium-
sized farmers to finance for small capital improvements and working capital through existing micro-
credit organizations. Producers in the project area see lack of micro-credit as a major constraint to
increasing their commercial farming activities. It is anticipated these credits would be used primarily
for equipment, e.g. tractors, and agriculture inputs, e.g. seeds. Credits would be in amounts in the
range of $1500 - $15,000.
(c)   Irrigation Rehabilitation. The project would finance improvements in irrigation where
these would be used by private farmers to increase productivity and the quality of their commercial
production. It would involve redesign, repair and improvement of existing irrigation systems serving
private farmers. The improvements proposed in Lubushki and Trebinje would include (i) cleaning of
main canals, drains and removal of debris, (ii) repair of diversion weirs, structures, flood banks, and
canal and drainage channel banks, (iii) repair of gates at the main diversion, control and drainage
structures, (iv) improvement of access to control structures and to gates (v) improvement in outlets to
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
farms and (vi) assistance in water management and the formation of water users groups. The initial
works proposed for each area would act as the catalyst to small farmers to improve on-farm channels
by ensuring reliable water delivery near to their farm gate. Irrigation investments financed by the
project would be designed to be economic by avoiding capital- and electricity-intensive systems in
favor of low-cost systems already in use in the project areas.
(IV) Project Management. (US$ 1.29 million)
The project would strengthen project implementation units in both the FBiH and RS. It would
increase existing capability to manage day-to-day project activities and coordinate work with local
implementation units. The project would finance consultants, incremental staff, office equipment,
vehicles and other operating expenses related to the project.
2.2    Environmental Impacts
Project components with potential for negative environmental impacts are:
Component 11 Sub-component B - Enterprise Credit
Component III Sub-component A - Technology Development
Component III Sub-component B - Micro-Credit
Component III Sub-Component C - Irrigation Rehabilitation
With the exception of Component III.C, the environmental impacts of the other sub-components
cannot be determined at this time as the activities which will be funded will only be identified during
project implementation by the financial intermediary (Fl), making these category "Fl" sub-
components. The Fl for Component 11 Sub-component B - Enterprise credit, will be a commercial
bank. The Fl for Component III Sub-component B - Micro-credit will be an existing micro-credit
organization with experience with other similar World Bank financed projects. The Fl for Component
IlI Sub-component A - Technology Development, will be the State Competitive Grants Committee.
It is not possible to review the environmental aspects of the sub-loans, credits and grants at present.
For the loans and credits, the project operations manual includes an appendix on "General Guidelines
for Identification and Analysis of Environmental Impacts of Project Loan Activities" which includes
the mechanisms and responsibilities for environmental screening and review of proposals. For the
grants, the guidelines related to environmental screening, review and monitoring are provided in an
apendix to the project operations manual, "Competitive Grants Program for Technology and Market
Development."  The Fls would be trained to evaluate loan applications based on Bank's
Environmental Guidelines for Financial Intermediary Loans.
Investments under Component III Sub-Component C - Irrigation Rehabilitation, have been identified,
and are the subject of this environmental assessment. The project would finance the rehabilitation of
deteriorated irrigation and drainage systems in the project areas. No new structure of significant size
would be built under the project. There is also no new land acquisition and no resettlement of people
because of the rehabilitation activities.
The environmental assessment which follows is that of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Component of the
SSCAD Project.
1.3   Need for the Project
Agricultural land in southem Bosnia and Herzegovina is deteriorating as a result of poor planning and
management of the same. The most required resource is water in this region. The irrigation canals
have faced a significant amount of destruction during the 1 0-year period of stagnation brought about
by the war-time activities and post-conflict recovery. There is a critical need to rehabilitate the
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       3



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
existing irrigation network in south-eastem Herzegovina in order to provide water for development of
agriculture in the area, and to catalyze development of BiH as a whole.
1.4    Objectives of the Environmental Assessment
The objectives of this Environmental Assessment are to:
a) Analyze the policy, legal and administrative framework relevant to rehabilitation and
operation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure,
b) Analyze available baseline data on the environmental issues and their trends,
c) Identify possible negative and positive impacts of the project and propose mitigating
measures if required,
d) Provide key criteria for environmental quality monitoring in the project implementation
areas, develop guidelines for environmentally sound construction practices and,
e) Assist in the inter-agency coordination and the public/NGO consultation process
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       4



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
2. Small Scale Community Agricultural Development Project (SSCADP)
2.1 Description of Irrigation Component
The Project area encompasses southeastern Herzegovina. This area is characterized by karst
geography, and uneven distribution of water throughout seasons. The most typical agricultural
production in the project region is that of early_vegetables, either in the open or in plastic housing
(don't understand what this means). A functioning irrigation system would significantly increase the
interest of producers and open up new areas for agricultural production.. The SSCADP would assist
development of the Project area and as a direct result, development of the entire country. The project
is the responsibility of the government of BiH, through the PIU of the Federal Ministry and RS
Ministry for Agriculture, Waterworks and Forestry.
2.2    Project Objective
The objectives of the irrigation rehabilitation sub-component of the Small Scale Community
Agricultural Development Project (SSCADP) are the following:
-  Rehabilitation of existing irrigation, drainage and flood protection works in Ljubuski and
Trebinje Poije,
-  Technical support in the rehabilitation of water storage tanks in Dubrava Plateau and other
suitable sites and the establishment of water users associations for their operation,
-  Strengthening of Water User Associations (WUAs) and federations of WUAs (FWUAs),
and development of a WUA support unit within the PfU to assist with management
transfer,
-  Technical support within PIU to small-scale commercial farmers and micro finance
organizations for identification and selection of viable small scale irrigation alternatives
-  Technical support to the local water management companies in evaluating appropriate
construction technologies and contractual procedures and transferring roles and
responsibilities to the private sector
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                         S



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
3.     Project Area Description
This SSCAD Project involves the southeastern portion of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It spans the karst
area from Ljubuski to Trebinje and Dubrava Plateau, as can be seen on the general BiH map in
paragraph 3.1.1.and detailed map in paragraph 3.1.2. The area of Ljubuski is within the catchment of
the Trebizat river (also known as TMT- Tihaljina- Mlada - Trebizat river), and the area of Trebinje is
within the catchment of the Trebisnica river. Both of these rivers are tributaries of the Neretva river,
while Trebisnica is not directly connected with Neretva on the surface but has significant contribution
to Neretva through groundwater streams. Neretva flows from central Bosnia, through Herzegovina
and Croatia into the Adriatic Sea along some 230 km. River Neretva has a specific runoff of 43.21
I/s/km2, while Trebisnica has a specific runoff of 61 lIs/km2. The common Neretva and Trebisnica
catchment covers an area of 9800 km2, which makes up 19,2% of the entire territory of BiH.
The geological characteristics of the Project area are mostly Dinaric karst with Adriatic / sub-
Mediterranean climate. Such a climate is characterized by warm summers and mild winters. This karst
area is made up of permeable carbonate rocks where the prevailing formations are karstified
limestones of Mesoic and Venasoic age. The groundwater flows through the fractures in the contact
points of individual rock blocks and along faulty zones, while flow barriers are present in dolomite
and flysch formations. The Ricica reservoir (Croatia) is located within the Pliocene flysch deposits
and Upper Creations limestones.
The Ljubuski field being composed of quateinary sediment, is underlined by Eocene limestones. The
water impounding is possible from the Tihaljina source to the Ljubuski fields (Kordi6i and Klobuk
reservoirs are planned in this area). The East Herzegovina region including the Dubrovnik coastal
belt consists of Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous limestones and dolomites intensively karstified with
numerous sinkholes. A smaller portion of the upper cretaceous formation is represented by the
impermeable flysch deposits (marl, clay and sandstone). The Quarternary sediments cover the karst
fields. The Trebinje field belongs to the extensive depression of Popovo Polje. The bottom layers are
relatively low-permeability quaternary sediments. Meanwhile, considerable water losses arise through
the sinkholes and estavelles along the field periphery. The area includes morphologically closed off
karst fields, the highest of which is the Gatacko polje (950 meters above sea level) and the lowest
being Popovo polje (250 meters above sea level). The karst fields on the west part of Neretva river
catchnment are Mostarsko Blato (225 m.a.s.l. and Ljubusko polje (75 m.a.s.l.). The area is also
exposed to extremely unevenly distributed precipitation. The autumn-winter period is characterized
by high levels of precipitation while the vegetal period experiences extreme lack of precipitation.
The average annual temperature is 14,50 C, with the average annual humidity being 55%-75%. Wind
currents blow approximately 300 days in a year, while weaker winds up to 12 m/s blow some 160
days in the year, and very strong north-eastern winds exceeding 20 m/s blow approximately 20 days
in a year.
The seismology of this area is rather active. The seismic source of Biokovo (Makarska, Croatia),
Mostar, Livno and Dubrovnik with epicenters in the region of Ston (Croatia), Grude (BiH), Sinj
(Croatia) and Hvar (Croatia) has a significant effect on the area of the Project. The most significant
faults of the seismic-tectonic structure are in the direction of southeast-northwest while the border of
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       6



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
the structural until Dinaric-Adriatic stretches along the Adriatic coast from Ulcinj - Skadar zone to the
northwest.
The population of the Project area has been significantly changed since the war (1992-1995). A
number of population was dislocated, either within the borders of BiH or outside. The lack of
development in the agricultural sphere contributed to the decrease of the population's interest in
agriculture and a shift in the rural population towards urban areas.
The project area includes a number of quality public roads, the railroad Sarajevo-Mostar-Ploce
(Croatia) and the Mostar airport. It has an electrical supply network of 400, 220, 110, 35 and 10 kV.
The areas of Trebinje, Ljubuski and Stolac have water supply and wastewater networks sufficient for
the needs of the population. Ljubuski and Trebinje both have their own wastewater treatment plants,
which are very rare even in bigger cities in BiH.
Ljubuski & Ljubusko Polie
The area of Ljubusko Polje is located in the West Herzegovina Canton, alongside the river Tihaljina-
Mlade-Trebizat (TMT) from the settlement of Studenci towards Ljubuski-Vitmna until Klobuk and on
the western side until Grab and Vrgorac (Croatia).
Ljubuski municipality encompasses 282,7 km2 with a total number of 27.603 inhabitants (1991). The
total area of the municipality is divided up into agncultural land (43%), forests (52%) and barren land
(5%). The agricultural land, which makes up 43% of the total land is made up of fertile land (21%)
and pastures and meadows (22%).
The agricultural land covers some 121.5 km2, and is made up of 10 separate fields with their own
irrigation canals:
Table 1: List offlelds and canals in Ljubuskie
No.   Area  Field              No of  Concr./m  Stone     Earth/m  Total/m  Rehab.
canals           paved/m                     Cost
KM/i
I     A     Klobucko-            8      8,8454     7,750   15,616   32,211       5.63
Sipovacko-
Veljacko polje
2     B     Vitinsko-Otocko      5        1,936        0   13,694   15,630       4.01
polje
3     C     Hercegovacki rastok  9       5,291         0   31,369   36,660      11.40
4     D     Hardomiljsko -       1       11,000        0       0    11,000       4.09
Zvincko polje
5     E     Vasarovacko-         3       1,965         0   18,885   20,850       4 54
Lisicko polje
6     F     Grabovacko -         6         890         0   13,810   14,700       4.11
Berisko polje
7     G     Ljubusko - Radisko   4       2,320         0   19,530   21,850       6.06
_____ ___ polje
8     H     Hrasljansko polje    1           0         0    4,650    4,650       4.41
' Source: Study Detailed Assessment of the Irrigation and Drainage System in Ljubuski Poije
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                      7



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
9     I     Studenacko polje     1        1,722        0     6,888    8,610       3.73
10    J     Stubicko polie       I           0         0     3,240    3,240       9.90
TOTAL                39      22,969     7,750  138,682  169,401       6.37
Percent                      13,5%      4,6%    81,9%     100%
Of the 39 canals listed above, 44% of them serve only for irrigation, 36% have a combined purpose
for irrigation and drainage while 20% are devoted for drainage and flood protection.
Along TMT and Vriostica river 27.3 km of embankments are constructed for flood protection. The
planned rehabilitation works have envisaged remedial measures in heightening of their crest where
settlement occurred and repair of damaged slopes. The proposed deepening of the riverbed by
elimination of natural travertine sill should not be performed without previous consultations with
experts.
The irrigation canals listed above receive their water mainly from the watercourse of the TMT river
and river Vriostica for approximately 2800 hectares (ha) of land. The required amount of water per
hectare is 1.21 I/s, which makes up the total quantity of water of 3388 I/s. The maximum water usage
during the summer months reaches up to 6000 I/s which is impossible to satisfy. Hence, it is evident
that improved water management and rehabilitation of the existing irrigation canals will make a
significant contribution to, and is essential for, sustainable development of the project region.
Furthermore, as most of the canals are over 50 years old, the advancements in the field of irrigation
which will be introduced and supported by the project, will contribute to improved water management
The area of the river Trebizat catchment encompasses 1100 km2. The areas of the basin with the
highest elevation are located in the karst field of Tribistovo where a water accumulation Tribistovo
has been formed. Tribistovo is located at an elevation of 900-950 meters above sea level. From
Tribistovo water flows through the river Ricina into the Posusje-Virsko polje and farther towards
Ricice storage reservoirs. It continues through river Ricina towards the Imotski-Bekija Polje. In the
southem portion of the field a hydrological tunnel has been made for the purposes of flood prevention
and drainage into the Tihaljina springs area. Furthermore, alongside the existing tunnel, a
hydrological tunnel for the hydropower plant Pec-Mlini is under construction. River Tihaljina flows
to Klobuk and further into the Ljubuski Polje where the river changes its name into Mlade and farther
into Trebizat. River Trebizat discharges into the river Neretva downsteam of Ciaplina.
The operation of HE Pec Mlini potentially could cause sudden changes of flow rates in the TMT
watercourse affecting the operation of irrigation system concemed. Thus the project will finance a
flow recording station stalled upstream of the intake facility for the system The automatized station
shall be linked to the control room of HE Pe6 Mlini, as well as to the firm that serves as technical aid
to WUA.
Trebinje & Trebinjsko Polje
Trebinje is located in the eastem part of Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska. Trebinje region is also
karst area with a sub-Mediterranean climate. The municipality of Trebinje encompasses an area of
823 km2 and has approximately 37.000 inhabitants. An important issue is the number of population
that has been displaced during the war, causing a visible shift in the population number and structure
after the war.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       8



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Trebinje polje is irrigated from the Trebisnjica river that flows through this region in an trained
trapezoidal riverbed. River Trebisnjica has no direct surface contact with river Neretva but it is
drained through ground currents that flow towards Neretva and Adriatic sea. Hence, Trebisnjica can
be considered as a tributary of Neretva river. Trebisnjica was one of the biggest sinking rivers in its
natural condition, that is prior to the implementation of the shotcrete lined riverbed 64 km long which
has decreased infiltration and has made river Trebisnica flow through Popovo field all the year. Prior
to this engineered solution, THE river Trebisnica lost some 130 m3/s of water to ground sinks. Area
of the Trebisnjica basin is approximately 1600 km2 with recorded maximum flow of 96,1 m3/s and
minimal at 2,50 m3/s. River Trebisnica has four power plants: HE Trebinje I, HE Trebinje II, HE
Dubrovnik and PHE Capljina being constructed within the first stage of the Trebisnjica multipurpose
hydro project.
The irrigation water is supplied from Trebisnjica river through classical irrigation concrete canals and
Persian wheels located in the river. Persian wheels utilize water flow and gravity to lift up water into
metal irrigation canals that allow water flow into the concrete canals in the field.  The area of
Trebinje field is approximately 1300 ha, while some 850 ha are cultivated and approximately 650 ha
are irrigated through the existing irrigation system. The irrigation system in the Trebinje field
analyzed in this report is made up of five irrigation components, as defined in the study " Detailed
Assessment of the Irrigation and Drainage System in Trebinje Polje" as follows:
Table 2: Trebinjsko field irrigation system2
Sub       Sub-system     Length of canals to  Irrigation  Type of water  Rehabilitation
system                   be rehabilitated (m)  area (ha)  abstraction  cost (KM/m)
A         Zasad-Mostaci               4536      105,5     3ww*               3,72
B         Bellow Mostaci               1647      13,5     2 ww *             5,28
C         Trebisnjica left            2465       25,7     6ww *              5,02
bank
D         Pridvoracki                  250        8,3     2ww*               8,63
branch
E         South part of               9225      391,0     PS**              22,34
area Pump
Stations
18123     544,0   13ww + PS           13,55
Notes        * water wheels (WW),  **Purmp Station (PS),  ***Rehabilitation of WW or
PS included
In addition cost estimate within this study included cost of flow measuring equipment amounting to
52 550 KM (in this case average cost per meter of rehabilitated canal will be about 16,50 KM/m)
The irrigation water is abstracted from Trebisnjica river by:
a) water wheels located in the river and lifting up water into metal canals that allow gravity flow
into the concrete canals in the field. This system is applied for irrigation of zones near the
Trebisnjica watercourse, and
2 Source: Study Detailed Assessment of the Irrigation and Drainage System in Trebinjsko Polje
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
b) pumping station located by the Pridvoricki branch (a branch of the main river course). This
subsystem covers about 80% of irrigation area on south and west part of Trebinjsko field.
The existing system for drainage and flood protection of the Trebinjsko field consists of two main
drainage canals 8,38 km long running along northern and western periphery of the field. Canals are
partially backfilled with deposits of soil and wastes. The siphon bellow power pipeline across Mokro
field is also backfilled . To enable drainage of the south part of Mokro field it must be cleaned.
The major issue in Trebinje agricultural development is the number of extremely small, privately
owned land areas used for agriculture. However, a former state-owned and currently privatized
company AGROKOP owns some 370 ha or 57%) of the agricultural land made in large parcels of
area. Currently none of the AGROKOP area is being irrigated.
Construction of hydroengineering tunnel Fatnica - Bileca (about 17 km air line (?) upstream of
Trbinje) can not have any negative environmental impact on the proposed project downstream of
Trebinje. Flood water diverted from Dubravsko and Fatnicko fields towards Bileca reservoir will have
positive effect in terms of increasing flow through Trebinje and downstream through Popovo field.
Dubrava Plateau
Dubrava plateau is located northwest from Stolac and southeast of Mostar. It stretches above Neretva
on the northwest side and Stolac depression on the southeast. The plateau area is 5150 ha with no
significant water catchment and hence, no surface water courses. The population receives its water,
either for domestic use or for irrigation, by tapping smaller springs or creating small storage tanks to
collect rainfall. The Dubrava plateau has extraordinary agricultural potential if the required irrigation
water quantities are met.
On the contrary to closed karst fields, being characteristic by seasonal flooding and by long lasting
dry , the Dubrava area is an open plateau with ground composed of flysch (?) complex sediments
having rather low permeability, but without flooding of larger surfaces.
This layer produces numerous springs of low yields mainly concentrated in three extended zones. This
is the reason that besides comparatively low precipitation, compared with other areas of Herzegovina,
there is a rather developed agriculture sector (tobacco, grape etc..) within limited zones of plateau.
The earlier plans have envisaged  water diversion (18.74 million m3 annually) fromn the storage
reservoir on Nevesinjsko field for the purpose of Dubrava (5150 hectars) irrigation. The
implementation of such a project is foreseen within the second stage of Trebisnjica hydro project (HE
Dabar). Additional water demands for irrigation of Dubrava in August amounts 5.05 million m3
(about 1,90m3/s). Consequently the Dubrava plateau has extraordinary agricultural potential if the
required irrigation water quantities are met.
Currently the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is implementing pilot
projects to create water collection ponds in the Dubrava Plateau. These projects involve two ponds of
4500 m3 and 1500 in3. These ponds are lined with high-density Polyethylene (PEHD) foils, will
include a rain-water collection network and are fenced off to prevent unauthorized access. Below is a
list of small rivers, springs, water sources and water accumulations "catmja"s and "lokva"s (source
Map of river Neretva catchment - Eneroinvest M 1: 100.000)
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        10



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
Village           water source
Ophici6i          above canyon of river Bregava
Domanovici        spring Domanovi6i
Grovnica,Humac    source Bijeli Grivac
Bivolje Brdo      catrnja Kevcici
Podglavica        catrnja Kaja Rbegusa
Poprati           source Komornik, source Vidostak
Obradovic         catnja Grabovo
Mala              source Vidoljut, Ubo, Bar
Rivine            source Klincica, Jamica, Klokun
Pileta, Greda     catrnja Borusa
Ljuca            catrnja Blaca
Cardaci           source Ljubljine, Svilica, Dobrovic
Ljubljanica       spring Cetkova vala, lokva Velika
Brstenik          source Spirja Scepan krst
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
3.1    Map of BiH with a focus on the proiect area
3.1.1  BiH with position of project areas
Project Locations Map 1
Project Location
PEntity
Region        Adriatic Sea
Border
Major cities
/\/major road tasphalt)
/\/ Major road (macadam)                                ontenegro
\/Regional roads             . 
4   Railroads
a ers                                            if_
Major nvyers
Lakes
3.1.2 South East Herzegovina with position of proiect areas
At  Prany'  t  Sntn.
mm I.)-POdARO.4SQ"s ............. Project Locations Detailes Map 2
B aS Oil0 FlO.                                                                     _
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                                12



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
3.1.3   Avera2e precipitation
<   s  s)t      t   a           9      % *      t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR BIJA
HRVATSKA
JADRANSKO MORE
Bo .Rerof                                                           CRNA GORA
B aordaer                                        s,    r    
Waters        _                - l
Major ro's                                                             6'
Lakes
Godisorie Padasi-e
2000 - ida Wo
_  750. 2000
2500  r75
01250 520                    Prosjecne Godisnje Padavine
. 0o1000                                                               B..$ Od S.M. Ce.r;aa
3.1.4   Avera2e yeariV temperatures
<X>\  123L        (t\       /        c8^ t          ~~~~~~~~~~SRBIJA
< >\ ~   ~   5.  -'i t'      >     T    &        2tl )   D  2
HR VAT SKA F                                    - (:
JADRNSOA                                                NRS ~~,
5;1Reorosn      -,7> 
MHajor dries                 ZZj:-:*-----14 
WLaters                                                      ' . N  2_  &   --RNA GORA
M ajor  re, s 
L akes
TTemerature Zlaka
0d 13,                                                                   (  -
,s                    Prosjecne Godisnje Temperature Zraka 
_  Pleko 16'                                                        & 5s Oi l S e  Co..an
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                                  13



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
3.1.5  Average temperatures in July
| ~~~~~~     |                              > ~~~~~~~~SRBIJA
2           1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
*HRVATSKA
JADRANSKO MORE            26
,3Region    9°                ~    \|            J
jMin, tRues 
wate r s                                  _   _
La-kes                   .2 _                     -  CRNA GORA
Temperatrre ZraD a -ka%
O 0X1 20U
~23
3J22'                                             Fr>>
23                                                4
27                 Prosjecne Julske Temperature Zraka     B   O SwCora
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                14
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                      1



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
3.1.6  Details of project in Trebinie area
N         .r~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;~~~~ ~ ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --r  -  .-
-^  .1v  -'  *-.t.ntbsB                             1]   t
, '" _,; _ :, L,,V .- _ i-. -.
\r_; '~~t          '    1      '  tia *---  ls0 
#~~~~~~~~~ ,;r-rt- _hj 
;.          6   g ..... . pTChIS!  ;'c   j' i1t ;   4rf
1  .                  ... .111__ -a C!-_E';0 4_ 
-;   -  t    ,W;. \}   r.=~sd    p0)-;- ->/ 
-L5 p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
.7 Ir
Legend, *S  *
5,WVater Wheel
IgtonCanal Cnlj                          
W Flood Drainagr C l'-   TREBINJE SSCADP IRRIGATI N DETAILS
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                          15



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
4.     Review of National Policies and International Water-Sharing Agreements
Existing Institutional and Legal Framework Regulating Water
4.1   Introduction
With the Dayton Peace Accord (Annex 4 - Constitution of BiH), BiH administratively became a
highly decentralized state, organized into two entities: Federation BiH and Republika Srpska, both
having a high degree of autonomy. FBiH is decentralized, and is made up of ten cantons with the
high degree of decision freedom in establishment of authoritative functions and their execution, while
the Republika Srpska is a centralized entity.
4.2   Institutional framework
The existing institutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina is such that there is no institution that
would handle the environmental issues on the state level. This situation comes out from the Dayton
Peace Accord, by which the environmental issues are in the jurisdiction of each of two entities.
Therefore, institutions dealing with environmental issues are at the entity level, and in the Federation
of BiH at the cantonal level too. (update this with the newly proposed state office for environment -
get info from Fethi from the NEAP). The following provides information on institutions with
environmental responsibilities in BiH
4.3    Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Institutions at the Federation Level
*  Federal Ministry of Physical Planning and Environment - Waste management planning,
legislation and policy
*  Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry - Wastewater discharge
controls, monitoring and management
*  Ministry for Health - Clinical waste management
*  Ministry for Energy, Mining and Industry - Industrial waste management
*  Ministry of Transportation and Communication - Control over transportation of hazardous wastes
Institutions at the Cantonal Level
*  Ministries for Construction, Physical Planning and Environment -Waste management planning,
legislation and policy
*  Ministries of Agriculture, Water Management, and Forestry - Wastewater discharge controls,
monitoring and management
*  Ministries for Health - Clinical waste management
*  Ministries for Reconstruction, Development and Environment - Industrial waste management
Institutions at the Municipal Level
*  Communal Services Department - Local waste management planning, legislation and policy
*  Municipal Enterprise - Collection and disposal of all urban wastes
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       1 6



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
4.4    Republika Srpska
Institutions at the Republic Level
*  Ministry for Urbanism, Residential-Communal Activities, Civil Works, and Ecology - Waste
management planning, legislation and policy
*  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management - Wastewater discharge controls, monitoring and
management
*  Ministry for Health and Social Welfare - Clinical waste management
*  Ministry for Industry and Technology - Industrial waste management
*  Ministry for Energy and Mining - Mining wastes and power plant residues
*  Ministry of Transportation and Communication - Controls over transportation of hazardous
wastes
Institutions at the Municipal Level
*  Communal Services Department - Local waste management planning, legislation and policy
*  Municipal Enterprise - Collection and disposal of all urban wastes
4.5   Inter-entity bodies
Environmental Steering Committee of BiH
The Environmental Steering Committee (ESC) is inter-entity body that coordinates the work related
to environmental issues between the two entities. ESC was founded on 14th July 1998, when two
ministers of the environment from Republika Srpska and from the Federation BiH, on behalf of their
govemments, signed the Memorandum of Understanding. This Memorandum is one of the far-
reaching agreements signed until present between the two entities. This Memorandum represents the
official intention of both sides to cooperate on all levels and issues related to the environment, and is
the basis for the activities undertaken by the Steering Committee. In accordance with the
Memorandum on Understanding accepted by both entities, the Steering Committee is responsible for
the following tasks:
*  Intemational contracts and programs related to the environmental problematic;
*  Cooperation with Republic of Croatia and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the field of
environment;
*  Harmonization of existing and future environmental legislative, regulations, environmental action
programs, monitoring, standards and information systems;
*  Harmonization of plans for urgent situations;
*  Coordination of all environmental activities that will help BiH to join European Union as a
member country.
The ESC has worked closely with the World Bank since 1998 on implementation of an IDF Grant for
Environment Capacity Building; preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP); and
preparation of, and implementation of, the Bank financed BiH Environmental Infrastrcture Project.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        1 7



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Commission for coordination of questions from the field of water management
A Commnission for coordination of questions from the field of water management is responsible for
the cooperation between the responsible ministries of both Bosnia and Herzegovina entities related to
the water issues, having the goal of removing the eventual collision in water management. The
Commission deals with the following issues:
* Intemational contracts regarding water management;
* Intemational waterways;
* International water management projects;
* Cooperation with Republic of Croatia and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the water related
issues;
* Harmonization of present and future regulations in water management;
*  Harmonization and monitoring of water quality standards;
* Harmonization of solid waste disposal program - protection of water resources;
*  Harmonization and control of laboratories' work for monitoring of water quality and water stream
categorization;
* Construction and reconstruction of water management facilities on the, and in the near proximity
of the entity line;
* Facilities divided by the entity line;
*  Harmonization of plan documents from the field of water management for the facilities divided by
the entity line;
* Gathering and exchange of data (inter-entity and international);
* Harmonization of plans for flood protection and other extreme situations.
The legal framework relevant to the SSCAD Project is:
4.6    Legal framework at the state level
Constitution of Bosnia & Herzegovina
Article III of the Constitution defines the responsibilities of and the relations between the institutions
of BiH and its two constituent Entities: the Federation of BiH (FBiH) and Republika Srpska (RS).
The environment is not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution, neither in the competencies of the
State of BiH, nor in those of the Entities. However, according to Article III.3c, "functions and powers
not expressly assigned.. .to the institutions of BiH shall be those of Entities". Thus, the environment
belongs to the Entities. It means that Entities regulate environmental issues trough its laws,
regulations and standards.
4.7    Legal framework in Federation BiH
4.7.1  Legal framework at federal level
Constitution of the Federation of BiH
The Constitution was voted on by the Constituent Assembly of the FBiH on March 30 1994, and since
then has been amended three times: on July 23, 1994 (amendment I), on Jtne 5, 1996 (amendments II
to XXIV), and on May 8, 1997 (amendments XXV and XXVI).
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        18



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
The Constitution establishes the sharing of competencies between the Federation and the constituent
cantons as follows:
*  exclusive competencies of the Federation are the general economic, energetic, fiscal and land
use policies (Art 111. 1, b, f and 1);
*  joint competencies of the Federation and the cantons are, e.g., health, environmental policies,
tourism, and use of natural resources (Art 111.2): in these fields, the powers of the Federation
and the cantons can be executed "jointly or separately, or by the Cantons as coordinated by
the Federation Govemment" (Art III.3.1); and
*  cantons have all responsibilities not expressly granted to the Federation (Art III.4.1); matters
likely to concern the water sector are public services, local land use, local energy production
facilities, and cantonal tourism.
Each canton may confer some of its responsibilities, such as, for example tourism and local business,
to the municipalities in its territory (Art V.2)
Water Law (Official Gazette of the F BiH, No. 18/98)
The Federation Water Law (WL) comprises 244 articles. Article 1/1 defines the content of this Law.
This Law regulates conditions, instruments and method of water management, water works facilities
and public water resources. The aim is rationality usage of water and water quality protection at
whole.
This Law regulates that "hazardous and harmful matters are forbidden to be introduced or discharged
into water, any public water facility, construction site, agricultural or forestall land or atmosphere or
to be deposited in the area where there is a possibility of water pollution, except according to the
conditions regulated by this law or in accordance with the regulations enacted and based on this and
the other laws.
Legal entities and inhabitants who, performing their activities, discharge hazardous or harmful matters
that might pollute water are obliged to treat water partially or completely in accordancc with the
waterworks permissions prior to discharging it into recipients or sewerage system" (Article 122).
Draft Water Protection Law
Article 25 defines that "the construction of installations or devices intended for production involving
hazardous substances, construction of installations or devices for the handling of hazardous
substances or storage of hazardous substances, and construction of installations or devices for waste
disposal shall be prohibited on water land".
Law on Collecting, Producing and Trafficking Raw and Waste Materials (Official Gazette of the F
BiH, No. 35/98)
This law defines responsibilities, authority and obligations of organizations and individuals in concern
of collecting, producing and trafficking usable waste materials and raw materials. It prohibits
destroying the materials that could be reused. It gives condition for registration for performing
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                           19



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
collecting, treatment and/or trafficking of raw materials. Federal, Cantonal and Municipal
departments and governing bodies in authority will ensure the reinforcement according to this law.
The Law on Utility Activities (Official Gazette of SR BiH No. 20/90)
This law regulates "utility activities of special social interest" (Article 1), such as:
*  water production and distribution by water network, up to the user's measuring instrument
including the instrument (Article 2/1/1);
*  purification and evacuation of waste water (Article 2/1/2);
*  cleaning of public transport infrastructures (Article 2/1/9); and
*  storm water drainage (Article 2/1/12).
The municipal activities can be perfonmed by a public municipal company, some other company, the
local community or an individual worker (Article 3/2).
The user of municipal services has to pay a fixed price for the service (Article 10/1). If he neglects
paying for the service for two consecutive months, the service can be terninated if this does not
threaten other users (Article 11/2). Disputes between users and the service provider are to be resolved
in court (Article 10).
The Municipal Assembly defines the method of service pricing, but the service provider defines the
price of the service (Article 12/3).
The Law on Physical Planning (Official Gazette of SR BiH, No. 13/74, 9/87)
Section III of this law covers environmental protection. Article 70 defines that a municipality is
responsible for collection and disposal of waste materials. Disposal of waste is to be perfonned on an
engineered landfill site. Location of the engineered, sanitary landfill site is to be determined within the
urban plan.
4.8    Legal framework at cantonal level
Constitutions of Cantons
In all cantonal constitutions, joint responsibilities of the Federation and the cantons include local land
use, health, tourism and environmental protection.
Cantonal Laws
Law on Environmental Protection
This law has been adopted by the following cantons:
1. Posavina Canton
2. Tuzla Canton
3. Zenica-Doboj Canton
4. West Herzegovina Canton
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        20



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Law on Physical Planning
This law has been adopted by the following cantons:
1. Posavina Canton
2. Sarajevo Canton
3. Herzegovina-Bosnia Canton
4. West Herzegovina Canton
Water Law
This law has been adopted by the following cantons:
1. Posavina Canton
2. Tuzla Canton
3. Zenica-Doboj Canton
4. Sarajevo Canton
4.9    Legal framework in Republika Srpska
Constitution of the Republika Srpska
The Assembly of Republika Srpska of BiH voted the Constitution on February 28, 1992. Afterwards
the basic text was amended several times, between May and December 1992 (amendments I to XXV)
and on November 11, 1994 (amendments XXVI to XLIII). The Constitution contains, as usual,
provisions related to fundamental political, economic and social rights, stipulations conceming the
organization of Entity institutions and the division of competencies between the RS and
Municipalities.
Water Law (Official Gazette of RS, No. 10/98)
Enacted by the RS National Assembly on March 20, 1998, the Water Law was published on March
30, 1998, and it entered into force on April 8, 1998. The Law, which could be defined as
comprehensive, comprises 136 articles, divided in the ten chapters.
Article 61 paragraph 2 states that " water pollution prevention will be implemented through
prohibition, reduction and prevention of disposal of dangerous and harmful substances into water, as
well as through issuing of the measures of improvement and preserving of water quality".
Thus article 64 lists a range of prohibited activities:
*  discharge of dangerous and harmful substances into water over the issued amount (over accepted
limits);
*  discharge into water of solid and liquid substances, that can cause water pollution or mud silting,
water salting and silt settlement;
*  discharge of waste water containing dangerous and harmful substances over the issued amount
into sewerage reticulation (or that can have negative effect on waste water treatment, or cause
damage to waste water treatment plant, or sewerage);
Law on Utility Activities (Official Gazette of RS, No. 1/95)
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        21



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
The Law on Utility Activities, in its 1995 version regulates, utility activities of special social interest,
which comprise:
*  water collection, treatment and supply to users for drinking and other purposes, through water
network, up to water measuring instrument, including also that instrument (Art. 2/1, pt 1);
*  wastewater collection and treatment;
*  solid waste disposal and treatment; and
*  storm-water drainage.
These activities are organized by Municipalities and either carried out by municipal public companies,
or conferred to other companies (Art. 3). However, the water production and supply, considered by
the Law as activity demanding technical and technological unity, can be given exclusively to a public
company (Art. 5/1). Municipal service suppliers must ensure permanent service, good functioning of
facilities and agreed service quality, healthy and hygienic accuracy (Art. 8).
The control and supervision of the operation and maintenance of municipal services, including all
water supply and wastewater treatment facilities, is carried out by municipal inspectors (Art. 25 to
28).
Law on Land Use Planning (Official Gazette of RS, No. 19/96, 25/96, 10/98)
The Law on Land Use Planning, voted in August 1996, mentions also environmental protection. In its
first article the Law insists on healthy and protected environment (Art. 1/1). That Law, which has a
general character and which treats, above all, physical planning and construction rules, stipulates that
land use planning is regulated also by special laws, as for example those concerning the water sector.
The Law quotes, among various land uses (construction, agriculture, forest, protected areas) also
water surfaces that have to be defined by special law, or by physical or urban plan (Art. 5/1 and 4;
Art. 21/2). Moreover, the Law specifies that the protection of nature.. .means especially protection of
water, air, land, andforests (Art. 28/2).
Law on Agricultural Land (Official Gazette of RS, No. 13/97)
The Law on Agricultural land (1997) determines the responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture
Forest and Water Management and of municipalities and towns for protection of agricultural land
(Art 5/2). These responsibilities must be assumed in accordance with the main planning documents,
named basic documents on land protection and use of agricultural land (Art. 7/1), which at the local
level define, among others, areas to be irrigated (Art. 10).
Among the measures protecting agricultural land, the Law mentions the necessity to define maximal
level of harmful and hazardous matters in irrigation water (Art. 12, pt 5). The control of these
quantities is carried out by the RS and municipal agricultural inspectors (Art. 50/1/4 and 13).
Article 25 forbids discharge or disposal of dangerous and harmful material to agricultural land and
into irrigation canals in such quantity that can have a negative effect on the productivity of
agricultural land and irrigation water quality. Based on the international and domestic standards and in
agreement with the Ministry of Urbanism, Construction, Housing and Public Services & Utilities, the
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        22



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
Ministry determines what quantity of dangerous and harmful material is allowed to be contained in
land and irrigation water. The Ministry alsos determine the methods to control the quantity
acceptable for deposition.
4.10   International Water Sharing Agreements
The governments of Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have signed, on 11.07.1996. in
Dubrovnik, AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
AND GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ON ARRANGEMENT OF WATER
MANAGEMENT RELATIONSHIP.
Through this Agreement, the signing parties have agreed that the following agreements and accords
are placed in effect between the signing parties from the day of placing this Agreement in effect.
These accords and agreements, which relate to the project and are included in this study, are the
following:
"Social agreement on joint municipality actions on pollution prevention and water quality
enhancement in the river Neretva basin and portion of the Adriatic Sea in the region of the mouth of
Neretva". Official Gazette SRBiH No. 39/81.
"Agreement on the manner and conditions of the arrangement and water use in the river Trebizat
basin", Official Gazette SRBiH No. 9/82.
"Accord on the manner of construction and establishing the resources for construction of sites,
manner of arrangement and utilization of sites as well as the manner of management of sites in the
river Trebizat basin", Official Gazette SRH No. 16/82.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                         23



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
5.     Baseline Data on the Environment of the Project Area
Beside data given in 4 basic studies (Study A and B for Trebinjsko and Ljubusko fields) this chapter
includes additional data that we consider as very important for the project. Since a number of storage
reservoirs for the purposes of hydroelectric dams have been placed on the Trebisnica, Neretva and
TMT rivers, monitoring activities have been conducted in this region. Most of the monitoring
activities have been based upon the quantitative properties of the rivers while the water quality was
less frequently and stringently monitored and analyzed. A number of flow-measuring gauges and
monitoring stations have been placed on these rivers, producing data on mean flow, minimum and
maximum flow in each of the rivers. Furthermore, these analyses are required in order to coordinate
water releases from the dams and ensure separate minimal flows through the monitoring stations. This
issue is also significant considering this region closely borders with Croatia and the issue of water is
important on both sides of the border in the karst region. Due to the karst topography and
hydrogeology of the area, groundwater and surface water are complexly interlinked due to the
permeability of the ground. Results of reliable quantitative data obtained by surface flow rate
monitoring for river Neretva are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Characteristic surface runofffor river Neretva and main tributaries3
Water-    Water      Catchment    Mean      Specific  Min. Daily  Min.       Flood
course    gauge      area A       Flow Q    Runoff    Flow dQ9s  monthly     Water
profile    (km2)        (m3/s)    (us/kin2)  (m3/s)    flow mQ3     Q, % (m3/s)
(m3/s)
Neretva   Ulog       222          10,2      45,94     0,190      0,35        203
Neretva   Konjic      1288        60,0      46,59     7,83       9,24        1169
Neretva   Mostar     4331         202       46,64     23,4       32,8        1830
Neretva   Zitomislici  5782       233       40,29     -          -           2179
Buna      Buna       313          41,2      (132)*    1,74       1,85        406
Bregava   Do (vrelo)  378         18,4      48,67     0,76       1,08        66,2
Tihaljina  Klobuk    -            27,4      -         2,28       3,49        250
Trebizat  Humac      907          39,8      43,9      1,20       2,71        303
Klokun    Poljana    -            6,45      -         2,75       2,93        25,1
*Undefined catchment; great part of Nevesinjsko field catchment not included
Five hydroelectric power plants have been constructed within the river Neretva catchment. The total
live volume of storage reservoirs amounts to 781,4 million m3 of water which low for positive
influence on the flow regulation and flood control, for the stretch downstream of Mostar up to the
mouth of river Neretva into the Adriatic Sea. The climactic characteristics of the area play an
important role in the hydrological balance. The higher summer temperatures have an effect on the
flow, evaporation and water quality.
Given in figure I below is a diagram depicting temperature and flow variations.
3Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebinje
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                      24



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
16.00-
'ill
14.00 -
a- 12.00
E 10.00
a)_                                                  /
6) 8.00
CD
a, 6.00- 
4.00
2.00
0.00
0.00    100.00   200.00   300.00  400.00   500.00   600.00   700.00
average flow Qavg m3/s
Figur
e 1: River Neretva average water temp. versus averageflow (monthly)'
Figure 2 provides information on the variation of temperature and flow for river Trebizat.
25.00*s..                                             _
I-)
20.00
15.00-         -
10.00-
cu
0.00   10.00  20.00  30.00  40.00  50.00  60.00  70.00  80.00  90.00
average flow Qavg m3/s
Figure
2: River Trebizat average temp. versus average flow (monthly)5
4 Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Ljubuski
s Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Ljubuski
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        25



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
60.00
4000
30.00
20.00   -                  .   .....
10.00                                                average yearly flow M3/s
0.00
1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
_Figure
3: River Trebizat at station Humac, average yearly flows in the period 1966-19786
1200-
a  I X       __i--i-I - 
_                                       _   \'earl), piod. G\'h
-5-- A*erage 1995-2001
600- M,.          __                              -   ,Average narural pot.
*- -Average 19S(0-200I
400-*         _-                         _       __        S   _        1
200                 __
NC   O   q \   C   1) I   -I) -I) 'C)                          V I)   1) -I~-1) N
Figure 4: PHE Capljina Overview of annualproduction foryears 1980-20017
River Trebisnica natural flow regime has considerably changed after the construction of the large
storage reservoir Bileca with the total volume of 1300 million m3 of impounded water.
6 Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Ljubuski
7Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Ljubuski
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                              26



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
The diversion of water from the Trebinje reservoir through a 16,5 km long headrace tunnel to HE
Dubrovnik (installed flow 90 m3/s) and/or releasing controlled flow in Trebisnica riverbed through
Trebinje and downstream resulted in reduction of the mean flow at G.S. Gorica from 96,1 m3/s in
natural regime to 24,4 m3/s (in the period from 1980 until 1988). Instead of very uneven flow
throughout the year, the new regime caused a decrease of excess flows in autumn-winter season while
the remaining summer flows are in natural state. This is depicted in figure 5 below.
Gauge Station Gorica 1983 Mean monthly flow m3/s in 1983
Month         1     2      3    4      5     6     7     8     9    10    11    12
Constructed   54,9  152,0  85,6  109,0  41,4  17,7  10,5  7,01  13,1  9,76  20,9  122,0
natural flow
'n.' ...'
E
Months
Figure 5:VS Gorica 1983 Average flow
Recorded     |20,5 |23,9  |25,2 |13,7  |14,1 |3,57 |5,88 |5,85 |5,35 l3,04 |3,25 |5,68|
flow  m3/s   l    l      l     l      l     l     l    l     l     l     l     ll
Meanwhile, due to the fact that water is released from lower layers of the storage reservoirs, the water
temperature has considerably changed in extreme values. Recorded water temperature in the time
period from 1995-1967 in Trebinje ranged from 1,2 0 C to maximum 27 0 C while from 1968-1977
(new regime) the extreme temperature values had shifted to minimum 7 °C and maximum 17 0 C.
These changes influenced partial alterations in flora and fauna downstream of Trebinje and in
Trebinje area itself.
Trebisnica flow monitoring downstream of Trebinje was perfonned before the war at a number of
gauging stations, Drezin Do, Dobromani, Poljice, Ravno, Orasje and Velja Meda.
Presented below is the available data on the minimum and maximum flows recorded at the gaging
stations Gorica and Ravno for the period of 1980-1985.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                          27



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Table 4: Minimum and Maximum flows for Trebisnica
Year                     G.S. Gorica                    G.S. Ravno
Q min (m3/s)    Q max (m3/s)    Q min (m3/s)    Q max (m3/s)
1980          2,60             122,0           0               286,0
1981          2,90             91,2            0               92,8
1982          2,90             54,7            0,3             118,0
1983          2,80            44,2             1,6             114,0
1984          2,24            48,0             2,7             90,0
1985          2,88             237,0           1,8             322,0
It can be seen that in the given period the minimum released flows from the Gorica dam were between
2,24 m3/s and 2,88 m3/s, which was often more than a month in continuity (summer months). The
minimum flows at Ravno were from 0-2,70 m3/s. Meanwhile, high flows, as a rule, were higher at the
downstream station Ravno due to the large inflow from periodical springs and estavelles. As a rule,
high flows occur in the period of October-January.
Precipitation, surface water runoff, irrigation requirements and water generation at the source are
some of the additional analyses that have been made. Considering that precipitation is extensive
during some periods of the year and very scarce during the vegetative periods, it has been carefully
monitored in the agricultural fields in the area. The average, maximum and minimum values of
precipitation in four karst fields and Dubrava Plateau are recorded in Table 5 below. The uneven
distribution of available water quantities have been noted in Table 6.
Table 5: Precipitation regime in Herzegovina fields8
Precipitation (mm)
Field     Annual quantity of precipitation         Vegetal period
Average    Min.       Max.       Average     Min.       Max.
Gatacko          1703      920         2625        460        183        752
Nevesinjsko       1789     988         2628        501        200         867
Dabarsko         1467      354         2240        380         81        768
Fatnicko          1657     652         2021        434        204        717
Dubrave          1189      925          1505       323        186        545
The available water quantity is primarily based on the amount of precipitation in the area. Since the
precipitation regime is uneven in this area, so is the quantity of water that is available. The percentage
distribution of precipitation in the Project area within the year is given in Table 6 below:
Table 6: Percentage distribution ofprecipitation9
I     II     III   IV      V      VI     VII   |VIII   IX  |X    |X    | X1
10.4 1 10.0  1 8.3  18.4  I 5.8  4 .    3.1    4.5    6.7   10.2  13.7 14.11
One can see that the autumn-winter period accounts for 65,1% of the annual precipitation in the area
while the springtime accounts for 22,2% and summer 13,7%. Apart from having a significantly lower
precipitation regime during the summer months (vegetative period), the average temperatures are
8 Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data - Trebinje
9 Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebi2at and Neretva Basin
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        28



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
rather high in this region. The average annual temperature and temperature during the month of July
are given below in Table 7:
Table 7: Climactic average information'°
Location     Average annual temperatures  Average    temperatures during the
(C)                          month ofJuly (°C)
Mostar                   14.8                            25.8
Ljubuski                 14.5                            -28
Trebinje                 14.1                            23.7
Evaporation from the ground surface in the project area is relatively low, due to the high infiltration
into the soil. Meanwhile, evaporation from the free water surface in circumstances of local
temperatures, wind and air humidity is much higher. Although the amount of evaporation depends on
the local climate it is estimated to be approximately 1240 mm annually. Monthly evaporation is
expressed in table 8 below.
Table 8: Evaporation from water surface
Month   I   II   III  IV   V     VI    VII   VIII  IX   X    XI   XII Annual
Mm      42  59   95   115  153   156   186   175   112   70  '45  32   1240
evap.
%       3,4  4,8  7,7  9,3  12,3  12,6  15,0  14,1  9,0  5,6  3,6  2,6  100
The water quality has been monitored in this area. The major parameter for which the water was
tested was the bacteriological analysis. It is important to point out that the water has a much higher
content (of what) during the summer, when the river flow is significantly less and when the water
temperature is higher than it is during the colder periods. This data is provided in Table 9.
Table 9: Bacteriological analysis of TMT and Neretva rivers"
Total no. of  NVB Coli    NVB E.coli/ Flow m3/s      Water temp.
bacteria /   /lOOml       lOOml                     °C withl corr.
Iml                                                 flow (1999)
River TMT - station Struge
30.6.2000    180 000      24 000       24 000       4,90          19.2/ 10.9
14.9.2000    2 000        30 000       4 000        2,49          17.8/2.8
15.2.2001    150          4 000        1000         32,1 (2000)  9/91.7
27.6.2001    9 000         140 000     34000        4,90 (2000)   17.8 / 11.2
17.9.2001    3 000        10 600       2 500        2,49 (2000)   17.2/2,64
River Neretva - station Zitomislic
21.6.2000    9400          9000        340          59,2          13/113
6.9.2000     9 000        34000        2 800        62,7          14.4/99
15.2.2001    110          2100         200          256(2000)    6.8/279
27.6.2001    3 400        48 000        1 800       60.4 (2000)   12.8/90.1
17.9.2001    4 500        20 000       8 000        60.4 (2000)   14.6/71.2
10 Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebizat and Neretva Basin
" Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebinje
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                      29



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Analysis of water quality discharged from the Trebinje II power plant and Trebinje wastewater
treatment plant has also been conducted and records are available in Tables 11, 12 and 13. The
analysis is conducted on a daily basis within the laboratory of the treatment plant, while semi-annual,
more detailed analyses are conducted in the Institute for Health in Podgorica, Montenegro.
Table 10: Water quality analysis of river Trebi.Unica at HPP Trebinje II profile 12
Measurement period Profile flow Quality according to measurements and analyses made
(m3/s)
May 2000           4,30        According to all controlled parameters except BOD5,
July - August 2000  4,40       water quality was established to be I class (metals
Sept. - Oct. 2000  4,40        analyzed: iron, zinc, copper, chromium, nickel and
cadmium). According to BOD5 measurements in the first
two series of measurements the water quality was II class
and in the third series to I class.
July 2001          4,66        Depending on the individual parameters the water quality
August 2001        4,30        was determined to be borderline between I and II class.
November 2001      4,30        The only exception was the phosphorus content which
corresponds to water quality of III class.
Table 11: Daily measurements of WWTP Trebinje disharge'3
Measurement                          Average parameter values
period           pH     Temp. BOD     5 Suspended solids COD   Electrical
°C    (mg/l)   (mg/l)         (mg/l)   conductivity
(tS/cm)
August 2000      7,2    16,0   5,60     10,10          23,5    -
August 2001      7,6    19,5   4,00    6,20            20,3    -
April 2002       6,5    14,3   4,10    2,05            17,3    730
Table 12: Semi-annual measurements of WWTP Trebinje discharge'4
Parameter                                     Measurements
Date                             08.10.2000.      08.11.2001.
Temp t (C)                       16                14,10
pH                               7,65             7,60
Nitrites (mg/1)                  0,02             0,055
Iron(mg/l)                       0,09             0,17
Manganese (mg/l)                 0,022            0,015
Oxygen (mg/l)                    6,85              11,53
Lead (mg/l)                      < 0,05           < 0,016
Chromium (mg/l)                  < 0,02           <0,006
Mercury                          <0,002           <0,005
Phenols                          <0,004           <0,015
Electrical conductivity (!5/cm)  626              808
Suspended solids (mg/I)          -                16
Mineral oils                     Not found        not found
12 Source: Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebinje
3 Source: Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebinje
14 Source: Source: Study Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data in Trebinje
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        30



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
Available data shows that water quality downstream of Trebinje and Trebinje wastewater treatment
plant does not indicate a worsening trend when compared to the pre-war status.
Give some analysis of the info in this section - it is good but point out the relevance to the project and
the project's potential impact.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                       31



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
6.     Analysis of Alternatives
The irrigation canals in the Ljubuski, and Trebinje area are in dire need of rehabilitation., and a certain
level of improvement. Most of the irrigation canals in this area are very old having been constructed
during the period of Austro-Hungarian rule over Bosnia and Herzegovina (until 1914). The irrigation
system in Ljubuski is heavily overgrown with thick vegetation, while the irrigation system in Trebinje
has deteriorated. With regards to the overall shortage of water during the vegetative season in this
area, it is obvious that without a proper irrigation system there is no development of agriculture in this
area. Hence, a "do-nothing" alternative would lower the interest in agriculture and furthermore the
economic, agricultural and overall development of the area, and consequently the entire Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Education, as foreseen in this report, is also an essential factor to this project. Education and training
of agricultural entrepreneurs and workers with respect to environmental protection, impacts of
fertilizers and nutrients on the crops and the environment, and water quality and quantity management
is essential. (not sure this belongs in the altemative section - but a good point)
Besides rehabilitation of the existing canals, advancements and improvements in the field of irrigation
would be introduced by the project. Rehabilitation of the systems to the pre-war outdated level is a
possibility. However, the alternative proposed by the project is to include a certain degree of modem
technologies of water management and irrigation within the project, or at least set foundations for
future development of more water efficient irrigation systems such as the "drop-by-drop" systems that
would improve water management practices in the area and reduce overall environmental impacts of
the irrigation of agricultural land in southeast Herzegovina.  The project will finance activities to
support research, introduction, training, and demonstration of new technologies.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        32



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
7.     Environmental Management Plan
Water is the most valuable resource in Southeastern Herzegovina. Proper water management can
allow larger quantities of water to be available for irrigation with minimal consequences and impacts
on the environment. When considering the project area characteristics and the scope of the project, it
is evident that this Project would improve the overall agricultural and water management practices in
the area.
However, rehabilitation of the existing irrigation network would need to include preventive and
mitigating activities, in order to eliminate or decrease negative environmental impacts and to improve
water management practices in the area The potential negative environmental impacts associated with
rehabilitation of irrigation structures and the subsequent expansion and intensification of agriculture,
include:
*  Negative impacts related to construction activities, e.g improper disposal of materials, noise,
air pollution
*  Negative impacts related to operation, e.g loss of water from infiltration
*  Waterlogging and salinization of soils
*  Increased erosion
*  Pollution of surface and groundwater
*  Increased nutrient levels
*  Diversion and loss of water for downstream users
An environmental management plan (EMP) has been prepared to address the mitigation measures for
the above potential impacts. The following tables present environmental management plans for each
of the project areas intended for irrigation rehabilitation. The potential impact, mitigating measures,
costs, and institutional responsibility for executing the plan are provided. Note the mitigation
measures include a number of specific activities designed to mitigate negative impacts. Overall the
project will mitigate a number of potential negative environmental impacts such as waste disposal in
open canals and large quantities of water loss, while also allowing for future addition of modemized
irrigation systems in the area.
The project is expected to have positive environmental impacts through (a) cleaning of main canals,
drains and removal of deposited debris and other unwanted materials; (b) repair and improvement of
flood banks, and canal and drainage channel banks; (c) promotion of improved land use practices and
farming methods; (d) modemizing and improvement of agricultural product processing; (e) removal
of areas of stagnant and standing water through cleaning of drainage canals and drainage systems; (f)
reduction of areas of potential erosion hazard around structures, diversion weirs, outfalls from
structures (g) improvement of water management by providing better access to control structures and
to gates, improvement of outlets to famis and the fomiation of water users groups and other assistance
in water management; and (h) strengthening local capacities in environmentally sustainable
approaches to agricultural development through training and capacity building.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                        33



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
7.1       Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Table 13: Ljubuski
LOCA'lTION: LJUBUSKO POLJE- LJIJBUSKI
3..     I'hase               Issue             Mitigatin,g measure     Commlienits        Install    Operate     Install    Operate
Improper.disposal of  Disposal of excavated soil       Cost for material        Investor in  Investor in
xcavated/removed soil and and rock on proper,  Municipality should removal is      I      accordance   accordance
I     Construction  rock from the   san   d designated areas (rock can designate such a  covered within  lnKM  with the   with the
aesthetickafrom theasnas  be used in construction and disposal location.  the rehabilitationo n n  m  Municipal  Municipal
esthetically unpleasing  soil on fanmlands)                     project                   authorities  authorities.
emoved shrubs may cause Proper disposal of cut                                           Investor in  Investor in
aesthetic degradation if  down shrubs and plants                                  4-5 KM  accordance   accordance
2     Construction  improperly disposedt in theremoved from the canals               1.200 KM / piece  /h     with the     with the
cimproperly disposed in the (chopping into pieces and                                     Municipal    Municipal
environment____  ____________________ composting)                                         authorities  authorities
Construction activities  Limt construction
3     Construction  cause noise pollution, added activities to regular periods       N/A               N/A    Investor       Investor
disturbanceoftm
Constructn .materials   Re-route water during
4     Construction  mCight be released      construction or minimize                    Cost is included in the  Investor    Investor
4  Construction doghtberelamsnoted wte  free material during                      rehabilitation project cost.InetrIvso
downstream into the water cntuto
construction
Rerouting of water during  Limit construction to
Kerouting of      cause  shortest possible time and              Cost is included in the  Investor       Investor
floods in surrounding areas properly arrange retention           rehabilitation project cost.
areas for rerouted water
34
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzecaovina
LOCATION: LJUBUSKO POLJE- LJUBUSKI
Ik%.      Phase                Issue             Mitig-atingi measure    Commilenits       Install      Operate    Install     Opel-ate
Disposal of waste materials Currently the canals
Removal of waste materials needs to be carried out at  are used as waste  Removal of  Transport
causes environmental    the nearest authorized  disposal or      wastes is       app.
6     Construction  pluiniinpoel            ladilMotrU        rkormaterials from     included in the  app.on  Investor       Investor
pollution if Improperly  landfill (Mostar Uborak or stove ranges to  rehabilitation  IKM/vIton~
disposed                other location specified by pstic bags an  proect        km
municipal authorities)  plastlc bags and  project
bottles
According to visual
Open, ground canals are  Placing a concrete channel inspection and
frequently overgrown with or concrete piping within  testimonies,
.  vegetation blocking off the the existing ground canals approximately two 9 K  / meter of Clearing
7      Operation                            with prior cleaning out of months are required . .       of canal ?? WUA          WUA
water passage and       the canal               for a cleared canal concrete canal  KM/month
incrieasing maintenance Conducting regular      to be completely
activities             maintenance of the canals overgrown with
thick vegetation
Concrete
Large quantities of water                         .1 .                           canals
are lost to infiltration  Placing a concrete channel Soil sl rather   9 KM / meter of would lead
8      Operation    through pemieable bottom  or concrete piping within  pene   ine tisn concrete canal  in a  WUA            WUA
layer of an open ground  the existing ground canals ae an .ifilati               decrease
canal                                           IS signficant                    of O&M
.costs
35
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeciovina
LOCATI ION: LJUBUliKO POLJE- .UJIIUSKI                                        Cost
Ia..       Phase                Issue             Mitigating measure      Commlienits        Install     Operate    Install     Operate
Open canals are frequently                      Local population                            WUA in      WUA in
utilized as waste disposal  Placing concrete piping, or frequently disposes                accordance   accordance
sites by population leading a protective cover on top of freqtly dis psto         Education: accodane   accodthe
9      Operation    to possible contamination  the existing ground canals the canals ranging  N/A     35.000    mncp t      municthe
of irrigation water and  Education of population  in size, composition            KM/ year government government
blocking off the water                          and material                               authorities  authorities
passage
Irrigation through open                     . .                                   2.500 KM
ratna    hrogh o,en     Control of water quantities                              gross
10     Operation    fcwanals,e leadsrgoleachin  released through water                 KM per gate    salary for    WUA         WUA
10  Operation   of water leads to leaching gaeorvls
of        .            gates or valves                                           a guard/
of sol's nutrients                                                             operator
ncreased agricultural   Education of farmers,
activities in the area may  education of fan n,                                   Education:
caue cntanintio of education of population,                                 3 5.000
I l    Operation     utilzause contamination of  Water quality monitoring,                            KN/ year      WUA         WUA
utilized water and soil by  establishment of a response                          Monitorin
Desticides, herbicides and
nutrients               action crew                                               g:
2.500 KM
12  Operation    anaroemen canteadt     Shut off gates or rerouting                              Wros
1 2    Operation     management can lead to  of water within the system                KM   gate      salary for    WUAWUA
*ncreased flood risks                                                            a guard/
__________________   ________________________                              ~~~~~~operator         _ _ _ _ _ _
36
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzecaovina
InlStituitionial
LOCATION: LJUBUSKO POLJE- LJUBUSKI                                               Cost                  responsibility
INie.      Phase                 Issue              Mitigating measure       Commlaenits        lnstall      Operate     Install     Operate
arge quantities of plant  Education of farmers,                                    Education:
utrients released may lead education of population,                                  35.000
13      Operation    nutro phicased of open    Water quality monitoring,                                  KM/ year      WUA          WUA
bodeutropfcateon         establishment of a response                                Monitorin
todies of water        action crew                                                 g
Utilization of irrigation  Carefully monitor water  This can be                                WUA in       WUA in
14      Operation    canals can lead to a      quantities and ensure most compensated by        N/A          N/A    accordance   accordance
14   Operation  decrease in the levels of  water-efficient techniques accorded dam                           with other   with other
surface water            of irrigation            releases                                     institutions  institutions
Carefully monitor water
quantities and ensure most This can be
Utilization of irrigation  water-efficient techniques compensated by                           WUA in       WUA in
canals ca decreas                        acctechniques/Aaccordance                                accordance
15      Operation     infiltration and deplete the  of irrigation       releases and        ?? KM / gate     N/A     with other   ithther
groundwater level        Utilize methods for re-  utilization of                               institutions  institutions
routing water to the area in rerouting gates
shortage
Non controlled water     Placing a buffer zone at
16      Operation    releases can lead to      discharge point of canal                     ?? KM / gate    ?? KM/      WUA          WUA
flooding and erosion of  Control of water quantities                                    gate
farm lands               released
Material used for filling in  Material needs to be  Municipality or                            WUA and      WUA, and
17  Decommissioning canals can degrade the     obtained from designated  nto      autermme      N/A          N/A     goverment govemrment
environment during       aesneed to determineauhrte                                                         atoiis
________________obtaining               aessuch a locationauorte                                                          athiis
37
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
LNo.      Phase                Issue             Mitigatingi measure    Commilenits       Install     Operate     Install    Operate
Removed material can    Recycling or proper    Municipality or                  Transport Municipality/ Municipality/
. cause pollution and   disposal at an authorized  Cantonal authorities         of waste: I Canton and  Canton and
18 Decoffissiomg environmental degradation landfill of all waste   need to determine                KM/ton*k decommissio decommissio
if improperly disposed  materials              such a location                  m        ning actor  ning actor
38
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Table 14: Trebinje
LOCATION: TREBINJE POLJE - TREBIN.JE                                          Cost          _31
PIlase                 Issue                Mitigating measui-e    Commelits       Install     Operate      Install     Operate
Proper disposal of cut
emoved shrubs and materials  down shrubs and plants                                         Investor in  Investor in
Remay ued asthec ddaten      removed from the canals                  1.200 KM      45 KM     accordance  accordance
I     Construction    ay cause aesthetic egaaion Shredding and composting                                         with the    with the
if improperly disposed in the  of cut down shrubs (rock                  piece       /hour    Municipal   Municipal
environment                  can be used in construction                                      authorities  authorities
and soil on farmlands)
Re-route water during
Construction materials might be construction or minimize             Cost is included in the
2     Construction  released downstream into the  free material during                   rehabilitation project cost.  Investor  Investor
water                      construction
Limit construction
3     Construction  Co pnstruction activities cause  activities to regular periods           N/A          N/A       Investor     Investor
_noise pollution and disturbance of time
Rerotin ofLimit construction to
Rerouting of water during    shortest possible time and              Cost is included in the    Investor    Investor
4n stru  ou   ld cas         properly arrange retention              rehabilitation project cost.
In__  surrounumg__ _  areasareas for rerouted water
39
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Phliase               Issue               Mitigatinl measule      Commllenits    Install     Operate     Install     Operate
_  Currently the  Removal of
Dipslof waste miaterials CuTnl h     astes is
Removal of waste materials  Disposal               canals are used as wicued     Transport
5     Construction  causes environmental pollution             .       waste disposal of the           app.      Investor    Investor
if improperly disposed     the nearest authorzed   miscellaneous   rehabilitation lKM/ton*km
items____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ project
Open canals are frequently                         Local population                        WUA in      WUA in
utilized as waste disposal sites  Placing concrete piping, or frequently                   accordance  accordance
operation  by population leading to   a protective cover on top of disposes waste        Euain         ihte       wt h
6      Operation    ypossibleionteamingation o  the existing ground canals materials into the  N/A  35.000 KM/ with the    with the
possible contamination of        ....municipal /                                                       municipal /
irrigation water and blocking off Education of population  canals ranging in   year        govenmment govemment
the water passage                                  size, composition                       authorities  authorities
e water passage ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ad mteia
Irrigation through open canals, Placing a buffer zone at                       2.500 KM
by large quantities of water  discharge point of canal               ?? KM per gross salary
7      Operation    leads to leaching of soil's  Utilize sprinklers                        gate    for a guard     WUA         WUA
nutrients and changes in water  Control of water quantities                    operator
salinity                    released
Increased agricultural activities Education of farmers,                        Education:
in the area may cause       education of population,                           35.000 M
8      Operation    contamination of utilized water Water quality monitoring,                      year            WUA         WUA
d soil by pesticides,     establishment of a response                        Monitorin
herbicides and nutrients    action crew                                                 g
40
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeoovina
Phase                   Issue                Mitigating, imeasuLe    Conmm11elnts    Inistall     Operute      Install     Operate
_                   . .               ~~~~~~~~~~~Education of farmers, l
Large quantities of plant     Education of pation,                                   Education:
. Operatio utrients released may lead to  education of population,                          35.000 KM      WU
utrophication of open bodies of Water quality monitoring,                              year
water                       establishment of a response 
action crew
Carefully monitor water  This can be                               WUA in      WUA in
Utilizatio .  irrigation ca s  quantities and ensure most compensated by                        accordance   accordance
IJ      Operation    can lead to a decrease in the  water-efficient techniques accorded dam     N/A          N/A     with other   with other
evels of surface water       of irrigation            releases                                 institutions  institutions
Carefully monitor water  This can be
quantities and ensure most    SWUAin                                           WUA in
Utilization of irrigation canals  water-efficient techniques accorded dam  N/A         NAn                     Ac  in
11      Operation    can decrease infiltration and  of irrigation Utilize                                    N/A
deplete the groundwater level  methods for re-routing  releases and   ?? KM / gate             with other   with other
utilization of                            institutions  institutions
water to the area in    rerouting gates
____ ____ ___ ____ __  ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ shortage_       _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Shut off valves or                                    2.500 KM
12      Operation    mi-nproper water management   rerouting of water within                ?? KM / gate gross salary    WUA         WUA
an lead to  creased flood skthe system                                             for a guard/
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              t he__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _s y st em__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     o p e ra to r
Placing a buffer zone at
Non controlled water releases  discharge point of canal
13      Operation     an lead to flooding and erosion Utilize sprinklers                    ?? KM / gate ?? KM / gate    WUA         WUA
of farm lands                Control of water quantities
released
41
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Pliase                Issue             NMitigating measuL-e    Commilenits    Install     Operate     Install    Operate
Material used for filling in  Material needs to be  Municipal                            WUA, and    WUA, and
14 Decommissioning canals can degrade the      obtained from designated  authorities need  N/A       N/A     government government
environment during obtaining  areas               to deterine such                       authorities  authorities
a location
Removed piping, tubing, mesh  Recycling or proper  Municipal                            Municipality Municipality
15 Decommissioning pollution and environmental  disposal at an authorized  authorities need       Transport of and       and
deDeigrution ad eirommenaly  landfill of all waste  to determine such           waste:*kmdecommissio decommissio
egradation if improperly   materials              a location                  KM/ton*km ning actor  ning actor
disposed
Table 15: Dubrava Plateau
ILNO.    I'lhase               Issue              Mitigating measurle      Commilenlts      Install   0               1        B
Removed shrubs may cause                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Investor in Inetri
esthetic degradation if    Proper disposal of cut                      1.200 KM / 4-5 KM               accordance with
I    Construction  improperly disposed in the  down shrubs and plants                      piece      hour with the      the Municipal
nvironment                removed from the canals                                        Municipal     authorities
envlronment                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~authorities  uhrte
42
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Phliase              Issue               Mitigatin,gimeasure      Comimilenits      Install                            Operate
Construction activities cause  Limit construction
2    Construction  noise pollution, additional air  activities to regular periods            N/A       N/A       Investor      Investor
pollution and disturbance  of time
Cost for
Proper disposal of                         material             Investor in
Removal of soil and rock from  excavated materials  Municipality should  removal is        accordance    accordance with
3    Construction  the location can cause aesthetic Utilizing soil on farmlands designate such a  covered  ton*km  with the  the Municipal
degradation                and rock in construction  disposal location.  within the        Municipal     thoricipal
practices                                  rehabilitation       authorties   authorities.
project
Disposal of waste
materials needs to be  Removal of
Waste generated during     Ensure that the waste is  carried out at the  wastes is  Transport
4    Construction  construction activities causes  properly managed and  nearest authorized  included in  app.  Investor       Investor
environmental pollution and  cleared from the site at the landfill (Mostar  the    IKM/ton
aesthetic degradation      end of activities       Uborak or other     rehabilitation  *km
location specified by  project
municipal authorities)
Open access to the pond might Placing a fence around the
5    Construction  cause animals or population to collection pond                        ?? KM / m of            Investor      Investor
nter the pond and would be  Placing warnig signs                         fence
unable to come out          Place floating pontons
43
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
3XIe.   Phase                  Issue               Miti-ating measure         Comimlents         Inistall     -          _
Placing a protective mesh                                  Educatio
O t umping of waste or other  cover or fence over the                    ?9 KM Im o n: 35.000
6     Operation    materials can cause pollution of collection pond                              fence      KM /      Investor       Investor
the collected water          Placing warning signs                                       year
Education of population                                     year
Create a flood canal around
the pond
7           ti     High precipitation may cause  Carefully monitor                            ?? KM                    W              WUA
Operation    overflow of the pond        quantities of stored water                    meter length lUA
and control of release                        ofcanal
______________________________ valves
Discarded construction       Proper disposal of      Municipality needs to                      Decomiss.     Decomiss. Actor
8   Decommnission  materials may aesthetically  Properdiaspondsalnaof   determine the area                  1 KM   Actorangot      dgv.
degrade and pollute the      materials on designated  where such waste                 /ton*km athortnid govt. authorities
environment                                          needs to be disposed
Filling in of the collection pond Procurement of excess rock Municipality or                    WUA, and      WUA, and
9 Decommission   might require removal of fill  and soil fill materials from  Cnedtona dethrteNANA               goerminet     gosuchn
naterials that would degrade  designated areas       need to detemine such                     authorities    authorities
he environment                                      a location___________________
44
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
8.     Waste Management Strategy
During project design and supervision, contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or
mitigate environmental damage including that related to waste. Sediments and other debris
would be displaced in an orderly manner in approved paths or in landfill or dump sites, rather
than dumped indiscriminately. Reuse of excavated materials would be specifically directed,
where suitable, limiting the need for old and new quarries. Where possible, existing quarries
would be used for required additional materials. Contractors would also have to restore
landscape to quasi-original condition after completion of rehabilitation works and after use of
quarries. The details of environmental precautionary clauses for contractor works would be
included in the bidding documents for proposed rehabilitation and improvement works.
The most appropriate methods for the observed waste materials are given below in the table 13
Table 13: Waste Management Strategy
Type of waste material     Manner of management        Location
Removal from canals and    Nearest authorized, sanitary
Household wastes discarded  management at the nearest  landfill is Mostar "Uborak"
throughout the canals      authorized landfill (including  Another option is a municipal,
leachate .and gas control,  authorized dumpsite
compacting and soil cover)
Bulk metal wastes can be
Removal from canals and    disposed of at a scrap-metal
Bulk wastes                disposal at a proper        dump, other wastes can be
designated area            disposed of at Mostar
"Uborak"
H   Can be spread on areas that
High quality soil          would require vegetation
Can be used in construction or
Poor quality soil          provided for works even in
landfill covering
Rocks                      Can be used in construction or
disposed of in a remote area
In a specially designated area
for composting. Sale of
Cut downegettCan be cut down, shredded  compost could be a revenue
and composted              generating activity
considering the amounts of
vegetation
Mostar "Uborak" or a
Waste material of eDisposed of at a proper,  municipal landfill. Precaution
Waste matenals of existing  authorized site, which would  must be taken that such
concrete canals            inld gridin
include grinding           concrete does not contain
asbestos or reinforcements.
45
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
9.     World Bank Safeguards Analysis
The World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 applies to this project due to the nature of the
irrigation rehabilitation component of the project. This component requires an Environmental
Assessment in order to ensure that the project to be financed is environmentally sound and
sustainable. The EA format includes effects of the project on all sectors involved, including the
environment, social and public sector. The Environmental Assessment also addresses issues
such as monitoring of the activities and institutional capacity building.
World Bank Operational Policy OP 7.50 also applies to this project. River Neretva is an
international waterway, as it flows through Bosnia and Herzegovina and through Croatia.
Neretva finally discharges into the Adriatic Sea, an international waterway. Rivers TMT and
Trebisnica are both tributaries of Neretva, through surface or ground connections and hence OP
7.50 should be considered with respect to this Project. An overview and analysis of the
Agreements and Arrangements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia are given in
section 4 of this report.
The Consultant has established that frequent communications exist between water authorities in
Croatia and water authorities in Herzegovina. The necessity for application of the Notification
Requirement is currently under discussion within the Bank.
46
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
10.    Environmental Monitoring Plan
In the past, as well as currently, much attention has been paid to the water quantity in the area,
but not to water quality. Due to the number of hydro power plants in the area, and energy
potential of the river flow, maximum and minimum flow values were carefully monitored, as is
presented in the baseline data, section 5 of this Report. Due to the scarcity of water, river and
stream springs as well as precipitation were monitored regarding the quantity of discharge
available. Average flow data is also available. On river Neretva there is a number of flow
measuring stations at various locations.
Considering the amount of agricultural activities in this region, as well as the unique karst
geology of the area it is evident that more attention should be paid to the water quality.
Furthermore, the karst geology allows for large-scale interaction of groundwater and surface
water in the immediate project area, as well as in the northem regions and across the
intemational border with Croatia. Water is a very valuable and scarce resource in this region
during the summer months and it requires protection of not only quantity, but also quality of the
water supplied to the population and to the irrigated crops.  There are several potential or
existing threats to water quality in the project region. The areas upstream of the Project area do
not have their own wastewater treatment plants and might negatively impact the quality of
surface water recipients. The entire area of Herzegovina, especially around Mostar-Metkovi6
(border) M-17 road and smaller regional and local roads, has a large number of illegal
dumpsites, some of which are located on the very banks of river Neretva.
Water quantity information, although more established than water quality, will also be improved
by the project. Flow monitoring will be expanded under the project. The flow monitoring
stations on the river Trebisnica downstream of Trebinje are at Drezin Do, Poljice, Ravno and
Velja Meda. Flow monitoring stations will be installed near the end of Popovo Polje taking
into account the backwater line of the upper compensation basin on the PHE Capljina. Sampling
of water for the water quality control will be performed at the mentioned spots.
Laboratories for conducting water quality analyses and measurements are available within BiH.
Two such laboratories are available are the Ljubuski and Trebinje wastewater treatment plants
which are also available to conduct such measurements, that are regularly conducted on
wastewater influent and effluent.  Furthermore, additional laboratories that have been
govemment certified are available throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and are used to conduct
water quality monitoring for other World Bank financed projects, e.g. Environmental
Infrastructure Project.
The following table presents the environmental monitoring plan for the project and includes
parameters to be monitored, where, when, why, how the monitoring is to be conducted; the cost;
and the responsible party.  Factors to be monitored include climate (wind, temperature,
precipitation); nutrient content of discharge water; flow and water levels at critical points in the
irrigation system; water table elevations in the project area and downstream; water quality of
47
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
project inflows and return flows; quality of groundwater in the project area; water salinity;
physical and chemical properties of soil in irrigation area.
48
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
Table 14: Environmental Monitoring Plan Ljubuski Poije and Trebinje Poije
When                                 Cost
What              Where               How            is the          Whly
Phoase       parameter is to be  is the parameter  is the parameter to be  paramete  is the parameter to                      Responsibility
monitored       to be monitored       monitored        r to be     be monitored    Install    Operate
monitore
d
To determine
Downstream of    Sampling, laboratory           possible water                1.000 KM per      Investor-
Construction  Surface water quality  the construction  analysis and record  Weekly  contamination as a                            Construction
activities       keeping                        result of construction             set           authority
activities
Prior and  To detemine
In the areas     Sampling, laboratory  followmg  possible soil                                  Investor-
Construction      Soil quality    surrounding      analysis and record   the       contamination by the          1.500 KM per     Construction
construction area  keeping            ctructi   construction                  set                authority
on        activities
activities
To assure proper     25.000   2.500 KM
Flow through canals  Uptemadwater management                                             Km per   monthly
Operation          (mFus)        downstream of    Flow-meters/ gauges  Daily     and sufficient        flow     salary for         WUJA
the field                                       compensation ofmer            wargud
water deficits        meter   water guard
amounts                   W~~~~~VvUA (through the
On site, and                                    To observe amounts                         information
Precipitation    possibly other   Sampling and record            of precipitation                           available from the
Operation         (umm/day)      locations in the  keeping on site       Daily   delivered and          N/A        N/A       Federal
area                                            required                                    Meteorological
requiredSbureau- if available)
49
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
When                                  Cost
What               Where              How             is the          Why
Phase        parameter is to be-  is the parameter  is the parameter to be  paramete  is the parameter to                        Responsibility
monitored        to be monitored      monitored         r to be      be monitored    Install    Operate
monitore
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 d
WUA (through the
On site, and                                     To b                                         information
possibly other   Sampling and record             To observe                                   available from the
Operation        Wind speed       loain .n th      kep        . nst        Daily   parameters essential  N/A          N/AFera
locations In the  keeping on site                in agriculture                               Federal
area                                                                                          Meteorological
bureau- if available)
WUA (through the
On site, and                                     To b                                         information
Operatio  Wd d n  possibly other  Sampling and record      .     Torobserve                                   available from the
Operation       Wind direction    loain in th      kep        . nst        Daily   parameters essential   N/A         N/AFera
locations in the  keeping on site                .    .Federal
area                                             m agriculture                                Meteorological
bureau- if available)
To observe                                   WUA (through the
On site, and                                     parameters essential                         informnation
Operation       Air temperature   possibly other   Sampling and record     Daily   in agriculture, to     N/A                   available from the
locations in the  keeping on site                determine arnount of                         Federal
area                                             evaporation                                  Meteorological
occurring                                    bureau- if available)
To determine                   2.500 KM      WUA through its
Operation     Irrigation (mm/day)      On site     Sampling and record     Daily   amounts of water               monthly       appointed "water
keeping on site                 dlvrdsalary for                              gad
delivered                      water guard   guard"
50
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Whlen                                  Cost
Phase              Whtat               Where               How             is the          Why
parameter is to be  is the parameter  is the parameter to be  paramete  is the parameter to                            Responsibility
monitored        to be monitored        monitored         r to be      be monitored     InstaU     Operate
monitore
d
To determine                                  Federal and RS
Annual    concentrations of                             Ministries of
Operation    Vegetation yield and       On site      Sample collection and  records  nutrients, have                               Agriculture,
tissue analysis                 e       laboratory analysis   and       ntlns     aeArclue
analysis  insight in possible                            Waterworks and
alerts                                        Forestry
2.500 KM      WUA through its
Opertion  Soil depth to             On sie       Sampling and record    Mothly    To determiine                   monthly       apitd"ae
Operation    groundwater                 n sie       keeping on site         ony     leaching of soil                sala fo
water guard   guard"
To observe                      2.500 KM      WUA through its
Operation       Soil temperature        On site      Sampling and record    Monthly  parameters essential            monthly       appointed "water
keeping on site                 inarcluesalary for                             gad
in  agricultue .water guard
Soil quality (heavy                   Sapecleto        n      eianTo determine                         1.0   MprWIA through its
Operation     metals, phosphorus,       On site      Sample c llection asd  Semiann  pss     sil                     set           appointed "water
traces of chemicals)                                ~~~~~~contamination              stguard"
Groundwater quality  U-rdetad          Sample collection               To determine salinity                         WUA through its
Operation      (chlorides, nitrates,  down-gradient of  through montorig     Semi    aossibe                         1.000 KM per appointed "water
coliforms)       irrigation system  wells and laboratory  annually  groundwater                   set            guard"
analysis                         contamination
51
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzecovina
When                                  cost
What               Where              How             is the          why
Phase                                                                 paramete                                                  Rsosblt
parameter is to be  is the parameter  is the parameter to be  p      is the parameter to                           Responsibility
monitored        to be monitored      monitored        r to be      be monitored    Install    Operate
monitore
d
Surface water quality                                                 To determine
(concentrations of   Upstream and     Sample collection and           Wo surfae                                  WUA through its
Operation    chlorides, nitrates,  downstream of   laboratory or field test  Semi  possible surface              1.000 KM per appointed "water
coliforms,           irrigation system  kit analysis       annually   water salinty and             set           guard"
phosphorus)
Downstream of                                    To determine
the              Sampling, laboratory            possible water                1.000 KM per Decommissioning
Decommission   Surface water quality  decommissioning  analysis and record  monthly  contamination as a            set           autliority
activities       keeping                         result of constructionauthority
activities
Prior and
Inrhr aond  To determnine
In the areas     Sampling, laboratory  following  possible soil
Decommission       Soil quality     surrounding      analysis and record  the       contamination by the           1.500 KM per Decommissioning
decommission     keeping              constructi construction                  set           authority
area                                  on         activities
activities
52
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzeaovina
Table 15: Environmental Monitoring Plan Dubrava Plateau
Phase                Wthat             Where               How                Whien             Wly                  cost
parameter is to be  is the parameter  is the parameter to be  is the parameter  is the parameter to                    Responsibility
monitored        to be monitored       monitored       to be monitored    be monitored    Install   Operate
To clearly identify
Visual measurements   Weekly, Daily   amounts of water                         WUA through its
Operation      Water level or volume  At the pond itself and record keeping  during release  available from the  N/A    N/A         appointed "water
season          pond and to direct                       guard"
releases
Standard laboratory                   To ensure water                          WUA through its
Operation         Water quality     At the pond itself tests and record     Semiannually   quality to be                1.000 KM    appointed "water
keeping                               supplied for                 per set     guard"
irrigation                               guard"
WUA (through the
Area of Dubrava  Standard                             To record inflows                        informnation available
Operation          Precipitation    Areau            measrements                Daily      NTo /eond          NIA       N/A         from the Federal
Plateau  measurements      into the pond                            ~~~~~~~~Meteorological
.________________                        bureau- if available)
To record                                WUA (through the
Operation  Temperature, wind  Area of Dubrava  Standard         Daily      variations in inflow                     information available
speed, wind direction    Plateau      measurements               Daily      and outflow into   N/A       N/A         from the Federal
the pond                                 Meteorological
the____________________pond_______________________bureau- if available)
53
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.






Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
11.    Institutional Arrangements
Within the Water Law of Republika Srpska it is stated that the maintenance, reconstruction and further
development of water structures are under the jurisdiction of the Municipality. In the Federation the
jurisdiction over this issue is dealt with at the cantonal level. Hence, the municipality should be the
primary institutional authority with regards to the irrigation of the agricultural areas. The Municipality
should arrange Water User Associations that would represent the interests of all its members- water
users, to the Municipality and other authorities. Such a set up of associations would enable better
communication and better networking between authorities and final users. Furthermore, it would
facilitate water distribution and charging in the future possibility of having to pay for water as a good.
Due to the international importance of the Neretva river to the Adriatic Sea basin, a Public Enterprise for
the Adriatic Sea Basin was formed with its headquarters in Mostar. This enterprise deals with most of
the issues regarding water resources in the area, regardless of entity or state border-lines, and is a very
valuable resource.  Furthermore, each entity has their own Waterworks and Electrical Supply public
enterprises. The Waterworks public enterprise deals with water management and issuance of waterworks
accords for any projects, developments or construction that might endanger water quality or quantity.
The Electrical Supply Enterprises of each entity are in charge of the hydroelectric dams placed on the
Trebisnica, TMT and Neretva rivers, and hence are in charge of dam inspections and dam maintenance.
11.1   Institutional and User Strengthening and Trainin2
When considering the current agricultural and irrigation situation in BiH it is clear that there is a need for
training and networking of government officials involved in this area, of local entrepreneurs directly
involved in agriculture and local population. Such education, training and forming networks would
allow for information dissemination, and would introduce proper agricultural techniques and possibilities
for newer technologies to be used. This type of training would also assist in displaying the potential for
population in agriculture, and would help educate agricultural workers in items such as fertilizers,
nutrients, pesticides and herbicides in order to establish proper usage of the same.  The project will
finance the provision on a continuing basis of extension and advisory services, as well as specific
training in fertilizers and pesticides as to proper application techniques, timing and handling of residues.
This training in careful use of fertilizers and chemicals, and the continuing extension and advisory
services to disseminate best practice is expected to keep the negative impact of increased input use to a
minimum. The project will also finance regular training and continuing advice in improved irrigation
management practices to reduce soil erosion within irrigation schemes and consequently reduce the
environmental impact of sedimentation on rivers.
The content of a training program will be determined throughout project implementation but it is
envisioned to take a fomi similar to that proposed below.
SEMINAR Series for Agricultural Entrepreneurs
The participants will be:
-   major agricultural entrepreneurs in the project area
-   government/municipal authorities
-   interested local population
The contents of the Seminar could address topics such as
-  possibilities of development through agriculture
-  new technologies in agriculture
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
-  applicability of new technologies in the area
-  linking and networking of agricultural associations
TRAINING sessions
Training sessions could be conducted in smaller attendance than the general seminars. These
training sessions could employ experts in the field, familiar with the conditions in the project
area and agricultural entrepreneurs in the project area. The training sessions would address topics
such as:
-  most common problems agricultural workers are faced with
-  overcoming most common problems
-  applicability of newer technologies in the area
-  benefits and impacts of fertilizers, and nutrients on crops, water quality and soil
-  overseeing agricultural activities and enforcement of proper techniques for govermnental
authorities
Cost Estimate - Half Day Seminar
Description       Local consultants in US$ (1)  Foreign consultants in US$
(per year)                   (2) (per year)
Lectures and literature                     400.00                    1,700.00
Room and technical                          250.00
equipment
Refreshments                                 150.00
TOTAL                                       800.00                    1,700.00
TOTAL for 5 years                         $4,000.00                  $8,500.00
Cost Estimate- Field Visits and Training Sessions
Description       Local consultants in US$ (1)  Foreign consultants in US$
(per year)                   (2) (per year)
Transportation                               150.00                   3,000.00
Lectures                                     300.00                   1,500.00
TOTAL                                       450.00                    4,500.00
TOTAL for 5 years                         $2,250.00                $ 22,500.00
Equipment purchases
Type          Number of units  Unit cost        Total cost       Local or
Intemational
purchase
Flow meters   2 per field      25.000 KM        50.000 KM
Water sample  2 per WUA (GW    5.000 KM         10.000 KM
kits          and SW)
Composting    2                1.200 KM         2.400 KM
choppers for
shrubs
Power         2                250 KM           500 KM
scissors
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                                56



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
12.    Schedule
Activity        Start Date            Finish Date           Duration
Construction    To be determined      To be determined               120 days
Mitigation      To be determined      To be determined                120 days
Monitoring      To be determined      To be determined        120 d and onward
Training        To be determined      To be determined                  I year
13.   Public Consultation
A public consultation of the project and EA was held in the Ljubuski region with the governmental
authorities, representatives of various agricultural companies in the area, water distribution sector,
communal-solid waste collection and disposal representative, independent experts and representative of
the Cantonal chamber of commerce. This consultation was held on 31. July 2002 in Ljubuski. The
attendence sheet is attached to this report.
14.    Conclusion
Southeastern Herzegovina is an area with a large amount of water availability but unfavorable
distribution during the course of the year. Aricultural potential is very high in this area, but is limited by
the quantities of available water. It is safe to conclude that a proper irrigation system would lead to an
expansion of the agricultural activities in the area, and in combination with proper training and
education, agriculture could be a strong basis for economic development of the region and BiH as a
whole. Rehabilitation of the existing system will be accompanied in the project by introduction of more
modem techniques. Training and extension services will support introduction of new irrigation and
agricultural methods that are conducive to water conservation goals. This will improve the overall
water management system in the area potential for future development of the project region.
Since water is such a scarce, and as a result extremely valuable resource, there is a significant amount of
measurements and data on available water quantities, water inputs, outputs, average, minimum and
maximum flows, and even water quality measurements. Additional, mandated monitoring is suggested
by this EA in order to have continuous monitoring of set parameters at set locations.
There are possible alternatives to the activities defined in this Project, but it is clear that the existing
irrigation canals must be rehabilitated.  Potential negative environmental impacts of the project are
limited and amenable to mitigation measures identified in the environmental management plan.
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.



Environmental Assessment: Bosnia Herzegovina
Bosna-S Oil Services Co.                                                          58



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Appendices list
Al     General Guidelines for Identification and Analysis of Environmental Impacts of Project
Loan Activities
BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA
and
World Bank
SMALL-SCALE COMMERCIAL
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Guidelines
For
Identification and Analysis of
Environmental Impacts
Of Project Loan Activities
September, 2002
59



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
John Ambrose
Mallorytown, Ontario
CANADA
60



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Contents
1. Introduction
2. Purpose
3. World Bank Safeguard Policies
4. Vulnerability
5. Probable Project Activities
6. World Bank Environmental Assessment Requirements
7. Screening for Category A and Category B Projects
8. Identifying and Mitigating Impacts of Activities Not Included in
Categories A or B
9. Agricultural Good Practices
10. Potential Environmental Impacts, Consequences and Mitigation
11. Cumulative Impacts



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
List of Tables
Table 3.1     World Bank Safeguard Policies
Table 5.1        Probable Agricultural Activities
Table 5.2         Other Potential Activities (Large Scale Farms, Processing and
Marketing
Table 6.1         World Bank Categories for Environmental Assessment
Purposes
Table 8.1         Agricultural Activities (Inputs) Affecting Different
Components of the Environment
Table 8.2         Guidelines for Determining Scores of Each Impact
Table 9.1         Some Agricultural Good Practices - Towards a Protected
Environment and Sustainable Agriculture
Table 10.1 -10.19  Impacts, Consequences and Mitigation of Project Activities



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
1. Introduction
Limited access to credit is a major impediment to the growth of commercial agriculture in
eastem Herzegovina. Bank and non-bank financial institutions have a limited presence in
rural areas in the region, and a weak capacity for agricultural lending.
The World Bank and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina are entering into a loan
agreement for a small-scale commercial agricultural development project (SSCAP).
Financing through this project will assist in the alleviation of the current problem of
limited access to the commercial agricultural sector. The SSCAP will provide two lines
of credit: $US 4 million for commercial banks to finance larger loans to processors,
traders, producer associations and cooperatives for working capital and investment; and
$US 2 million to micro-credit organizations to finance investment and working capital for
small-scale producers.
2. Purpose
The purpose of this document is to provide loan officers of the various banks and non-
bank financial institutions that will be responsible for on-lending of the project funds with
a set of guidelines that will assist them in determining to what extent the various activities
15
will affect the environment . The guidelines outline the World Bank's Safeguard
Policies, assist in the identification of projects that may fall into either of the World
Bank's A or B environmental categories (see section 4.) and indicate whether or not an
environmental assessment will be required. The guidelines also provide loan officers with
a description of probable impacts that can be expected from various activities and the
measures that the proponent should take in order to minimize or eliminate these activities.
As well, the document provides some agricultural best practices that should be followed,
and a note on cumulative effects and their importance.
3. World Bank Safeguard Policies
The World Bank's commitments to environmental and social protection are reflected in
its ten safeguard policies. These are stated and summarized in Table 3.1. It is the
responsibility of the lending institution to ensure that these policies are not violated. The
following is a list of questions which, if answered in the affirmative, would indicate that
the safeguard policy (indicated in brackets) may be triggered and a more in-depth
analysis, with possible consultation with World Bank staff, may be required.
Question: Does the project fall into a World Bank Category A or Category B for
environmental assessment purposes? (Environmental assessment - see Section 7.)
Question: Will the project involve the manufacturing of heavy forestry equipment
that would be used in the extraction of tropical moist forests? (Forestry)
15 Environment here includes the biological, physical and social components.
1



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Question: Will the project involve the removal of a significant area of important
natural habitat providing a base for important fauna / flora? (Natural habitat)
Question: Will the project involve the production / storage of large quantities of
chemical pesticides? (Pest management)
Question: Will the project involve the use of chemical pesticides? (Pest
management)
Question: Will the project require the removal of people (regardless of number)
from their homes and the dismantling of these homes? (Involuntary resettlement)
Question: Will the loss of livelihood be a direct result of the project? (Involuntary
resettlement)
Question: Will the project directly affect indigenous people or already marginalized
groups? (Indigenous people)
Question: Will the project lead to the removal, significant alteration or destruction
of archaeological sites, historic buildings and sites (e.g. battlefields), and local
cultural sites including cemetaries? (Cultural properties)
Question: Will the project involve the rehabilitation or the building of a dam (e.g.
irrigation dam) greater than 15 metres in height? (Dam safety)
Question: Will the project in any way cause an alteration of an international
waterway or its major tributaries? (Projects on international waterways)
Question: Is the project to occur in an area that is currently or is likely to be, under
dispute by a neighboring country? (Projects in disputed areas)
2



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 3.1: World Bank Safeguard Policies
Safeguard Policy                              Brief Descriti-::                                  Likely'A ppicationto
''Bref De's'r'  io                                     SSCAP
. Environmental       Bank financed projects must be environmentally sound and sustainable. Type and detail of Highly likely, particularly
assessment (EA)       EA dependent on nature, scale and potential environmental risks. (see section 2.2)  for large scale projects
. Natural habitat     The Bank supports the protection, maintenance and rehabilitation of natural habitats and  Possible, particularly with
does not support projects that involve the significant conversion or degradation of critical  expanding agricultural
natural habitats.                                                           activities
. Forestry            Policy relates to tropical moist forests.                                   Not applicable
. Pest management     The Bank supports the use of biological or environmental control of pests and strategies  Highly likely
that reduce the reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. It supports integrated pest
management and the safe use of agricultural pesticides.
Involuntary          People who have to be removed or who lose their livelihood as a result of the project must  Possible
resettlement          be resettled, compensated for all of their losses and they must be provided with a situation
that is at least as good as the one from which they came.
Indigenous peoples   Local indigenous people or distinct groups who are marginalized in society who could be  Not likely
adversely affected by the project
. Cultural properties  The Bank supports the preservation of cultural properties which includes sites with  Possible
archaeological, paleontological, historical, religious or unique natural values. It seeks to
avoid impacts on such sites.
Dam safety           Bank financed new dams must be designed and built under the supervision of competent  Only in the case of large
professionals. Dams over 15 metres in height are of concern particularly if there is a large  irrigation projects which
flood handling requirement or the dam is in a zone of high seismicity and/or where  are not likely to occur
foundations and other design features are complex.                          under the project
Projects on          Any project that may affect the water quality or quantity of a waterway shared with other  Not likely
international waterways  nations.
. Projects in disputed  Projects in disputed areas could affect relations between the country within which the  Unknown
areas                 project is being developed and neighboring countries. Disputes would be dealt with at the
earliest opportunity.
Note: For detailed explanation of each safeguard policy refer to the World Bank website, specifically,
www.worldbank.orv/enviroinrent/op policies.htmn
3



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
4. Vulnerability
The direct environmental impact of the funded activities in SCCAP is expected to be small.
Impacts are likely to occur mainly as a result of: i) agrochemical application (surface and
groundwater contamination); ii) cultivation, land clearing and construction resulting in soil
erosion; and, iii) indiscriminate dumping of sediment deposits and other materials from canals,
drains and structures, resulting in the loss of productive land and further erosion.
Only 14% of the country is arable and over 80% of the country is mountainous or hilly with
slopes exceeding 13%. Thus, soil erosion is a major threat, particularly as agricultural activities
intensify through this project and other similar projects. Erosion not only will cause the loss of
scarce productive soils but will contaminate river systems and affect aquatic ecosystems.
5. Probable Project Activities
It is not possible to determine prior to project implementation the various activities for which
loan funds will be requested. Earlier project preparation studies examined current agricultural
activities in the Project region and it is assumed that for the most part the current activities reflect
the application to which loan funds will be designated. Table 5.1 provides a list of the most
probable small scale agricultural activities for which project funding will be pursued. Table 5.2
indicates likely activities for large scale farms and other agriculturally related activities
(processing and marketing).
Table 5.1: Probable Agricultural Activities
ProbbleSmal'-cai'leiric'ulturag:
Activitisd-'' - 'r.
.Seed, cuttings (vines) and orchard stock
purchases
Fertilizer
.Pesticides
.Irrigation equipment
.Tractor hire
.Small implements
.Spare parts
.Fuel and lubricants
.Pedigree livestock for breeding
.Animals for finishing
.Farm buildings, storage sheds, cold storage
.Fencing materials
.Veterinary services
.Breeding services
4



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 5.2: Other Potential Activities (Large Scale Farms, Processing and Marketing)
. -    ~       ~~ . .....-Activity
In addition to those activities in Table 5.1:
Tractors
.Large irrigation scheme equipment
.Grain drying equipment
.Water supplies
.Agro processing equipment including:
. dairy processing
. meat processing
. fruit processing
. wine making
.Large buildings and cold store facilities
.Farm expansion (land purchase)
.Market buildings and facilities
6. World Bank Environmental Assessment Requirements
The Bank undertakes environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the
appropriate extent and type of EA. The Bank classifies the proposed project into one of four
categories, depending on the type, location, sensitivity and scale of the project and the nature and
magnitude of its potential environmental impacts. The four Categories are A, B, C, and Fl.
Category Fl is applied to all proposed projects that involve investment of Bank funds through a
financial intermediary (FI), in sub-projects that may result in adverse environmental impacts. The
financial intermediary is required to screen proposed sub-projects and must ensure that sub-
borrowers conduct an appropriate EA for each sub-project, where warranted. Before approving a
sub-project, the Fl verifies that the sub-project meets the environmental requirements of
appropriate national and local authorities and is consistent with the Operational Policies (OP)
and other applicable environmental policies of the Bank. The Fis determine the category of the
sub-project based on the World Bank's definitions as follows:
Category A: Includes projects likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts that are
sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented. A full EIA will be required. Mitigation may not be possible
for some impacts.
Category B: Includes projects that have potential adverse impacts which would be less
significant than those expected from a Category A project and impacts that can be more readily
mitigated. The scope of the EA for this category is much narrower than the full EIA required for
Category A projects.
Category C: Projects which are likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts fall
into this category.
5



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
It is important that the project management unit and the lending institution be able to identify
activities for which funding is being requested and which may fall into either of the World
Bank's Category A or Category B.
Table 6.1 provides a list of typical projects for each of Category A and Category B.
Table 6.1: World Bank Categories for Environmental Assessment Purposes
. dams and reservoirs       . agroindustries (small scale)
. forestry production projects  electrical transmission
. industrial plants (large scale)  . irrigation and drainage (small
and industrial estates,     scale)
including major expansion,  . renewable energy
rehabilitation, or modification  . rural electrification
. irrigation, drainage and flood  tourism
control (large scale)        rural water supply and
. aquaculture               sanitation
l land clearance and leveling  . watershed projects
. reclamation and new land  (management or rehabilitation)
development                 . protected areas and
. resettlement              biodiversity conservation
river basin development    . rehabilitation of highways or
. manufacture, transportation  rural roads
and use of pesticides or other  . rehabilitation or modification
hazardous and/or toxic      of existing industrial facilities
materials                   (small scale)
. new construction or major  . energy efficiency and energy
upgrading of highways or rural  conservation
roads
7. Screening for Category A and Category B Projects
QUESTION: Does the activity fall into Category A or Cate2ory B Proiect?
To answer this question the loan officer should adhere to the step by step procedure in the
following:
6



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
-Sten I
* Does the activity have an irrigation or drainage component?
* If the answer is YES, proceed to Step 2.
* If the answer is NO, proceed to Step 3.
Steii2
* Does this project have a large irrigation / drainage component?
(large = greater than 10 ha)
* If the answer is YES, the project will be a Category A project and the proponent will
be responsible for conducting a comprehensive EIA.
* If the answer is NO, the project will be a Category B project and the proponent will
be responsible of conducting a less comprehensive EA that will identify the probable
impacts and the necessary mitigation.
-- SteD 3
* Does the activity involve the significant regulation (e.g. by dam or diversion) of a
natural watercourse?
7



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
* If the answer is YES, the project will be a Category A project.
* If the answer is NO, proceed to Step 4.
* Does the activity involve the involuntary resettlement of people?
* If the answer is YES, a resettlement and compensation action plan will be required
by the proponent. Unless the resettlement issue is significant, other aspects of the
project will determine the Category (A or B) of the project.
* If the answer is NO, proceed to Step 5.
* Does the activity involve the use of fertilizers, pesticides or other chemicals in large
quantities (to cover lands exceeding 2Oha in area)?
* If the answer is YES, the project will be a Category A and the proponent will be
required to provide a comprehensive EIA, with special focus on impacts as they
relate to the use and handling of chemicals and on cumulative effects, and a clear
plan for mitigating these impacts.
* If the answer is NO, but small quantities (on areas less than 20ha) of chemicals are
to be used, the proponent will be required to demonstrate good management of
chemicals - their use and handling.
* If no chemicals are to be used, proceed to Step 6.
* Does the project involve the processing of agricultural produce on a small scale?
8



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
 If the answer is YES, the project will be a Category B project and the proponent will
be required to prepare an EA which will clearly identify potential impacts and the
mitigative actions to be taken.
* If the project involves the processing of agricultural produce on a large scale, the
project will be a Category A and the proponent will be required to provide a
comprehensive EIA.
8. Identifying and Mitigating Impacts of Activities Not Included in Categories
AorB
Step7
* To this point in the procedure, the major agricultural impacts have been addressed
and the World Bank Category has been determined. Now the investment officer will
assess the probable impacts of other agricultural and related activities (e.g.
marketing).
* The investment officer is encouraged to refer to the impact/mitigation tables (Tables
10.1 - 10.20)
* Table 8.1 indicates the important environmental components affected by various
agricultural activities.
* Proceed to Step 8.
--SteD 8
9



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
* List possible significant environmental impacts that could result (as a guide, refer to
Table 8.1 for most likely effects for each of the 20 activities).
* List the level of significance of each of the possible impacts (H,M,L) as indicated in
Table 8.2.
* Proceed to Step 9.
NOTE: identifying the impacts is a judgement decision and is best made in
consultation with fellow loan officers
* Determine an overall score for magnitude of impacts (using Table 8.2 as a guide);
noting that each impact of any one activity requires its own individual score - the
cumulative score of impacts for any one activity will provide the overall score for that
activity.
10



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 8.1: Agricultural Activities (Inputs) Affecting Different Components of the Environment
Agricultural Inpmts
Ai     -nquaiityr- j                     W            | C)  c  H      _
0. m   (Di 0.)                                               -0 - CD 
__ __L                                                 0_
Water quality - physical         a                     H'
Soil ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     2 qult         0 chmia  _   _ _ _ _ 
Soil quality- physicl    _                 M   L   H  H   M  _   _   H0
Impoant EnvironmentalComponent                       P   M 
Ca               'a~     ~~~ E. S-m                a   cn 
Terrestrial~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Ecoysem
0~4
-                                               -
Microaclimater loss==                              =     |   |   |  |H| 
Biodiversqity -lossmical                           H       H                    - H
Water ofqnturalty -cysical                                                                                H =
Micoqliaticecoytm  
Airdiquality  Los                                      L |_                           _ _ | |L | | | | | 
Water. qfnauraly cemcalses                         H   H      M                         Hj                Hj 
Soil quality - chemical EvHnH
Soil quality - physicalM                                          L   H  HMHH
Soil Erosion                                                  H   M   H  H   M                              H 
Soil Fertility                                         M          M
Salinization                                -H
WaterloggingH
Increased surface drainage                                    H   M      H
Groundwater losses                                            M   M      H
Terrestrial Ecosystems
Surface water losses                                                  H                 H
Biodiversity loss                                      H      H   H
Loss of natural ecosystems                                    H   H                            L   L
Natural forest loss                                           H   H
Other natural vegetation                               H      H   H                                L
Weed invasion                                   M             H   m
Invasion of new speciesH                                      H   M
Aquatic Ecosystems
Biodiversity loss                                  H   H                 L                                H
Modif. of natural ecosystems                    M  H   H      M1H 
Weed invasion                                  HHIH__
Socioeconomic Environment
Human health and safety                    3       H   H                       I                          H   H
Food contamination                         JH 
Increased floodingIH
Increased mudflowsf landslides                ___M
Desertification                                                          M



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
H - potential high impact; M - potential moderate impact; L - potential low impact
12



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 8.2: Guidelines for Determining Scoring of Each Impact
'Level of.Significance .                 Guidance for Signiffcance of.      Score -  .   Examples'
.lnpacts
None                               There is no detectable impact of any kind as  0   A procurement project with
a result of the activity                         no direct impacts
Low                                Small changes, possibly measurable;     1         Market facilities: social
usually confined to a small area                 disruption and water
pollution
Moderate                           Measurable losses, or system disruption;  3       Agro-processing: water
system able to continue without mitigation       contamination.
High                               Substantial losses or system disruption:  5       Animals purchased for
system would probably still function, albeit     finishing: overgrazing
at a lower level; an impact that is              and/or deforestation over a
irreversible                                     moderate area
Large scale erosion
Very High                           Major losses of ecosystems or irreversible  7    Not applicable
system disruption; system unable to
function without mitigation or major
compensation programme; a large impact
that is irreversible
Note 1: The loan officer must consider the size and extent of each project. For instance,
even though a land-leveling project would fall under the World Bank Category A, if it
occurs only over a very small area, the impact would be deemed low. Size and extent of
the effects of the activity for purposes of determining level of significance of the
impact(s) will be a judgement call.
Step 9
*   If score is less than 5 describe mitigative measures to be taken, and good
practices to be followed, to address impacts (refer to tables 9.1 and                 10.1-
10.20).
*   Ensure that mitigative measures are incorporated into conditions of loan.
*   If score is 5 or greater, proceed to Step 10.
13



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
* Describe in detail the impacts likely to be experienced.
* Determine practical and reasonable mitigative measures to be followed.
* Discuss above results with Government environmental protection
agency for input and support.
* Finalize mitigative measures description.
* Proceed to Step  1.
NOTE: A score of 5 or more could be the result of two low scores (e.g. 2 and 3)
for different aspects of the same project activity.
7S _
*     Prepare an environmental management plan (EMP) which describes
potential environmental impacts and presents mitigation measures (see
sample EMP attached).
* Prepare a monitoring schedule which will ensure implementation of mitigative
measures and good practices.
* Monitor activity on a regular basis.
14



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
9. Agricultural Good Practices
Table 9.1 provides some agricultural good practices that should be considered to avoid
impacts. Most of these practices are considered in the tables in Section 10.
Table 9.1: Some Agricultural Good Practices - Towards a Protected Environment
and Sustainable Agriculture
Activity                            Good Practices
Seed, cuttings and orchard stock  . selection of seed with lowest agro-chemical input
requirements to achieve high yields
. selection of seed with minimal level of pest and disease
vulnerability
. rigorous sanitation facilities and procedures for imported
seed
. rigorous sanitation facilities and procedures for exported
seed
. extension services provide advice on appropriate fertilizer
and pesticide applications
. wherever possible, extension service to promote
sustainable agricultural practices including IPM, minimum
tillage, contour ploughing, crop rotations, and green
manuring
Fertilizers                   . selection of best fertilizers for crop and prevailing soil
conditions
. application levels as per recommended by manufacturer
and extension service
Pesticides                    . IPM is a priority and pesticides to be applied sparingly and
only where absolutely necessary
. careful handling of pesticides; protective clothing and
equipment to be used
Pedigree livestock            N/A
Livestock for finishing        manure handling facilities designed to ensure zero runoff
Land rental/purchase          . land to be rented or purchased not to be environmentally
sensitive - check with government environmental officials
before finalizing agreement
Tractors                      . purchase of engine efficient tractors that provide highest
ratio of power and work to fuel input
. tractors with high efficiency emissions control
. tractors no larger than necessary for the most extensive
work anticipated
Farm implements               . implements suitable for minimal tillage and others which
are applicable to organic farming methods
Land preparation              . contour ploughing, minimum tillage, grassed waterways,
etc.
Small equipment               . energy efficient equipment
Grain drying equipment        . energy efficiency to be a prime concern
Irrigation equipment          . highest efficiency equipment
.__  equipment that assists in the use of irrigation water in an
15



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
efficient manner
Vehicles                      . low emission vehicles and vehicles with high efficiency
engines (maximum work per unit of fossil fuel input)
Farm buildings for stock,     . location of buildings where least disturbance of resources
machinery, and chemicals     required
. energy efficient building design including heating,
ventilation
. building design to minimize materials and use of
environmentally friendly materials
Storage facilities           Same as above
Fencing materials            N/A
Primary processing equipment  . high efficiency equipment including low emission fuels
___(e.g. gas, solar)
Fuel, lubricants, spare parts and  . safe storage of fuels, lubricants and chemicals
other operating requirements
Veterinary services           . zero use of hormones and minimal use of drugs
. alternative medicine
10. Potential Environmental Impacts, Consequences and Mitigation
The following set of tables is intended to provide guidance to loan officers. Each table
describes for each of the probable activities to be financed under the Project, a list of
potential impacts that can be expected, their consequences and the mitigation that will be
required to ensure that these impacts are either avoided all together or minimized. For
each activity a general summary of the following is provided:
Overall potential impact: None, Low, Moderate or High
Residual impact assuming mitigation is fully implemented. The residual impact is the
impact that still remains after mitigation has been completed: None, Low, Moderate or
High.
Risk: This is a relative rating as to the general probability that the impact will occur
with the indicated potential impact: None, Low, Moderate or High.
11. Cumulative Impacts
Many of the impacts that will be experienced will be of a low significance level. Even
residual impacts will be of low significance. However, loan officers and government
environmental officials must be aware that a number of low significant level impacts,
particularly in one confined area, can have a moderate or high overall level of
significance. This can occur not only within the project sponsored activities but also in
combination with other activities of the area. For instance, nutrient runoff as a result of
chemical fertilizer application made available through a project loan may have a small
effect on a local water course. However, a number of farmers in the same watershed
could also be borrowing money for the same purpose and the overall effect on the same
water course may be significant. Likewise, if the water course is receiving nutrient
loading from a municipal sewage treatment facility the runoff from the agricultural
16



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
enterprise will exacerbate the problem and could change a tolerable level of nutrient
levels in the water body to one of concern and seriousness. These are examples of the
cumulative effect and loan officers must be aware.
17



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.1
Seed, Cuttings and Orchard Stock
Overall Potential Impact: MODERATE
'aoInVD ii~              imilfi ecd                                 i  i   Required 
lii                       S dA
. positive impact;
increased yields and
food security for the
small holding farmer as
well as economic well
being
.loss of biodiversity as                      reduced biodiversity   .ensure important      Government environment officials should be
land cleared for new                                                 habitat is not disturbed  consulted if there is doubt of the biodiversity value
orchards and vineyards                                                                      of the site to be converted to orchard / vineyard
use of chemical       . same consequences as  . determination and   Ministry of Agriculture extension services should
fertilizers, and       described for chemical  application of optimum  work with farmers to provide input management
pesticides             fertilizers and pesticides  quantities and    advice
(see tablesI O.2 and   scheduling for fertilizers
10.3)                  and other inputs;
introduction of an
integrated pest
management program
(IPM). Mitigation will
be moderately difficult
without support of an
active extension
service.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW - MODERATE
Risk: MODERATE
18



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.2
Fertilizer
Overall Potential Impact: MODERATE TO HIGH
Potential Direct       Potential Indirect      Consequences -         Mitigation Required    Remarks
Im pacts               Impacts                                        ____:_:_____._.._.__._
. reduction in soil     modified soil structure  in the long run,     . fertilizer application in  . extension workers should work closely with
organic content        and reduction in soil   possible loss of       conjunction with crop  farmers to develop application rates and best land
moisture holding       productivity as a result  rotation practices.  husbandry and crop rotation plans
capacity               of insufficient soil   Mitigation moderately
moisture               easy since costs are
high                   ______________________
. nutrient enrichment of  . eutrophication of water  . modified aquatic  . optimum fertilizer  . work closely with extension workers to develop
water bodies           bodies                  ecosystems             quantities and         best land and crop management plans
application schedules  . potential impact on international waters
contaminated potable  . loss of household    should be planned.
water sources          water supply; must     Mitigation moderately
search for new source  easy since costs are
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW - MODERATE
Risk: MODERATE
19



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10. 3
I Pesticides
Significance of Overall Potential Impact: HIGH
Dim                                   _!, ecs,-,- 7 * _  -      on_
. impaired health of                          . increased health costs;  . training in the proper  It should be determined if the government
handlers including those                      lost work time; lost  handling and use of    agricultural agency is developing a 1PM program
who store, sell, transport                   famnily income         pesticides;
and apply                                                           . introduce an 1PM
(integrated pest
management program).
Mitigation will likely
be difficult.
impaired health of                           . increased health costs;  . health wamings to  Public education is required and this could be done
food consumers                               lost work time; lost   wash foods;            through the government agricultural agency and the
family income          . use  of appropriate  NGO comnmunity. It should be determined if the
chemicals that minimize  government agricultural agency is developing a
residue and are least IPM program. Difficult because agrochemical
harmful to consumers;  companies promote their products amongst farmers
.IPM program.          and farmers will generally adopt the immediate
Mitigation will be     least cost chemical that does the job
relatively difficult.
soil contamination                           . loss of soil        . use of appropriate   Difficult because agrochemical companies promote
productivity           pesticides that do not  their products amongst farmers and farmers-will
have residuals or in   generally adopt the immediate least cost chemical
which residuals do no  that does the job
harm to soil. Mitigation
will be relatively
difficult.
20



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
ground and surface    . impaired health of     increased health costs;  use of least harmful  potential impact on international waters
water contamination    local and downstream    lost work time; lost   pesticides;
water consumers        family income          . consider IPM
. aquatic ecosystems    biodiversity losses   Mitigation relatively
damaged                                       difficult.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: MODERATE
Risk: MODERATE
Table 10.4
Pedigree livestock
Significance of Overall Potential Impact: NONE
Potential Direct       Potential Indirect      Consequences           Mitigation Required    Remarks
Im pacts               Im pacts        :;                             ___________.,_:_._._,___
Positive input                                  leading to better
quality meat and wool;
increased yields and
increased farm incomes
No negative impacts
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: N/A
Risk: N/A
21



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.5
Livestock for finishing
Significance of Overall Potential Impacts: MODERATE TO HIGH
i  in  iC =nsffigi-i ~    C 
[mo  acntsI                                            [icests   -  X_i______                        _________u_i___rie_dL_______e__a_s__
.carrying capacity of   loss of ground cover  . reduced productivity  . ensure that pasture  . work closely with agricultural extension services
pasture is exceeded    . soil erosion         . loss of soil        carrying capacities are  to develop pasture carrying capacities
loss of water holding  . sedimentation      not exceeded.           potential impact on international waters
capacity               . hydrological regime  Mitigation is difficult.
modified resulting in
flooding and drought
conditions
.in high altitude areas  . reduced vegetation  . loss of soil       . ensure that grazing  . work closely with agricultural extension services
stock may threaten     cover                  . sedimentation       does not occur in      . regular monitoring
forested or other      . soil erosion         . hydrological regime  protected or other
protected areas        . loss of water holding  modified resulting in  important areas.
capacity              flooding and drought   Mitigation moderately
conditions             easy.
. reduced biodiversity
l livestock in a confined                     . high nutrient loading  . management of
area - concentration of                      in runoff waters leading  manure; alternative to
manure                                       to poor water quality  confined quarters.
IMitigation easy.
close confinement can  loss of stock and    . alternative to confined  Loan application should be rejected if alternatives
result in animal diseases  income            quarters. Mitigation   are not available.
I__ __ _ __ _ __ _ ___ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ m oderately  difficult.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: NONE
Risk: MODERATE
22



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.6
Land Purchase
Significance of Overall Potential Impact: HIGH
Potential Direct       Potential Indirect     Consequences           Mitigation Required_  Remarks
Impacts                Impacts               _                      _________ :_._,,_-_.._____:_.._a:_l:_.__:-.                  ___:_
Current non-agricultural  Reduced biodiversity;  Stream sedimentation  Land not already being  Loan officers should reject land purchase proposals
land may have          loss of forest cover; soil  leading to aquatic  used for agriculture and  if biodiversity will be threatened.
biodiversity or        erosion                ecosystem changes      which has watershed or
watershed protection                                                 biodiversity values
values which would be                                                should not be converted
lost                                                                 to agriculture.
Mitigation should be
easy through
regulation.
Loss of livelihood-    Further poverty        Dependence on the state  Small farmers must be  Farmers will make the decision to sell on their
existing small farmers                                               made aware of the real  own. No one is going to give them advice on how
may see financial gains                                              value of land and how  to manage their money.
to be made (selling land                                            to manage cash that they
to large farmers) but                                                may have never had
once money is gone, no                                               before. No mitigation.
land upon which to
sustain themselves
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: NONE
Risk: MODERATE
23



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.7
Tractors
Significance of Overall Potential Impact: MODERATE TO HIGH
Mt-iii             'I ME d           U~~~~~nse _nc-esiiainRqie
soil and water        . loss of soil         . loss of crop          good practices to be  . this is a minor impact and awareness to operators
contamination from     productivity           productivity           carried out by         to refuel under safe conditions is all that would be
machine fuels and                                                    equipment operators    required. Agriculture extension service can educate
lubricants             . loss of potable water  . must find alternative  Mitigation will be  farmers, as well as loan officers
source of potable water  moderately difficult.
Soil compaction        Runoff                 Erosion and            Ensure equipment of a  Large farms require large machinery appropriate
sedimentation          size suitable for soil  for the magnitude of the job.
conditions. Mitigation
I will be difficult.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW
Risk: HIGH
24



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.8
Land Preparation
Significance of Overall Potential Impact: MODERATE TO HIGH
Al Direct   e                               Mitizati6in ~~~~~~Required  Rmis
Potential irect        Ipo  al ts direct      'Consequences         Mitigtion       r      Rem rks
InipactsImas                                                                                .
soil erosion                                 . loss of productivity  . contour ploughing  . should be conducted in conjunction with other
loss of soil moisture  required             good husbandry practices including maintenance of
. optimal ploughing    cropping residues (i.e. no burning)
. stream sedimentation  . aquatic ecosystem   schedules to ensure   . coordinate with agricultural extension field
modified               minimal time for      services
exposed soil.          . potential impact on international waters
. modified hydrological  . aquatic ecosystem  Mitigation will be
regime                 modified               difficult.
. flooding and drought
conditions increased
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW
Risk: HIGH
Table 10.9
Other farm implements
Potential Overall Impact: LOW - MODERATE
Potential Direct       Potential Indirect  i 'Consequences .                i Required   .Rem'arks
Impacts                Impacts  '   ._'                                -_.,_, .___.__._____ .. .
Deep cultivation       Loss of soil productivity  Water regulation losses;  Practices other than  Difficult to change old ways. Agriculture extension
contributes to soil    and stream             modified aquatic       deep ploughing (e.g.  service will be required to provide advice and
erosion                sedimentation          ecosystems             minimum tillage and   demonstrate advantages.
direct seed drilling
without disturbing the
soil). Mitigation will be
difficult
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW - MODERATE
Risk: HIGH (traditional farming techniques are likely not to change)
25



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.10
Small implements and equipment
Potential Overall Impact: NONE
Pote jii ibIr   JPoteliiilndieci      Consequences                                p n  o itigariiR  id?'
Not Applicable
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: NONE
Risk: NONE
Table 10.11
Grain drying equipment
Potential Overall Impact: LOW
-     leialns             T -._=u*1f
High electrical energy                       Energy consumption     Not known             If the opportunity to reduce spoilage and improve
consumption                                  requiring use of more                        income is present, grain dryers will be used
fossil fuels
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW
Risk: HIGH
26



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.12
| Irrigation equipment and irrigation maintenance; water supplies
Potential Overall Impact: HIGH
Potential Direct   .   Potential Indirect      Consequences      .   .Mitigation Required   Remarks ,         '
Im pacts:              Im pacts                                       _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ ._..  _______* _,,, ______, _____: ___; ___, _____
Reduction of                                   Loss of water to other  Water sharing plan to  Water sharing plan will be challenging to prepare
groundwater; extraction                        current and potential  ensure equitable       and implement
of surface water                              users                   distribution. Mitigation
very difficult.
Salinization;                                  Loss of productive land  Appropriate drainage
waterlogging                                                          system. Mitigation
relatively easy.
Debris accumulation                            Loss of productive land  Appropriate storage of
and erosion from                              upon which debris is    dredging debris.
irrigation channels and                        stored;                Mitigation relatively
drain rehabilitation                          Erosion of debris into  easy but may be costly.
water courses leading to
stream sedimentation
and aquatic ecosystem
modification and losses
Blockage of surface                           Modification and loss of  No funding of projects
water flows (dams)                             aquatic ecosystems     that will create dams.
Run of river is best
alternative. Mitigation
difficult if storage
reservoir is required.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW - MODERATE
Risk: MODERATE
27



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.13
Vehicles
Potential Overall Impact: LOW - MODERATE
Potential Direct        otenti7alnro                   cMt                   ne      dm
CO' emissions          Contribution to        Contribution to global  Efficient engines and  Not likely that efficient engines will be used and
greenhouse effect      warming                conservation of use.  conservation will not be a priority
Mitigation difficult.
Switch to ethanol blends  Ethanol blending will be dependent upon a ready
or pure ethanol; the   supply of ethanol (maize and/or sugar production)
latter would require
adoption of engines
specifically for ethanol
I consumptiont
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW
Risk: HIGH
Table 10.14
| Farm buildings for stock, machinery and chemical storage; marketing facilities
Potential Overall Impact: LOW
Pflotential Direct       oeta    niet      ~    neune                  iiainRqie 
Reduction in the amount                       Reduced income from    Efficient design to    Space for buildings has to come from somewhere.
of land available for                        lower total crop        minimize space
food production                               production             required. Mitigation
easy.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW
Risk: HIGH
28



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.15
Fencing
Potential Overall Impact: LOW
Potential Direct     'Potential Indirect     Consequences          Mitigation Required   Remarks
Impacts               Impacts ,        .  i
Aspects of cultural                                                None available
system may be affected
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: LOW
Risk: LOW
29



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.16
Primary processing
Significance of Overall Potential Impacts: MODERATE - HIGH
.surface water         .impaired health of    increased health costs,  .assurance that effluents  .each processing operation will differ and for a
contamination from     downstream users; loss  lost work days and    are treated before    number there will be no impacts; project design
effluent discharge (e.g.  of potable water supply;  family income;   discharge; alternative  must be submitted and reviewed; monitoring of
whey from dairy        damaged aquatic        alternative source of  ways of handling      operations required
processing, residues   ecosystems             potable water must be  effluents (e.g.        . potential impact on intemational waters
from oil processing, or                      found; reduced         recycling). Mitigation  Mitigation will be a condition of the issuance of an
any processing using                          biodiversity          will be easy (but could  enviromnental agreement.
chemicals)                                                           be costly).
. injury and illness as a                     . injuries and illness;  . provision of      This may come under regulations relating to
result of poor working                        lost work time; lost   appropriate safety    occupational safety.
conditions                                    family incomes         features and protective
clothing; training on the
use of equipment;
awareness of dangers
Mitigation relatively
difficult.
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: NONE
Risk: HIGH
30



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.17
| Fuel, lubricants, etc.
Significance of Overall Potential Impacts: HIGH
Potential Direct       Potential Indirect    Potential              Mitigation Required   Remarks,
Impacts               Impacts            -   Consequences    .. ._._____._._._'
Soil contamination                           Loss of soil productivity  Proper storage and
Lost revenue           handling of fuel;
containment of fuel
containers within
concrete bunded area
Ground and surface                           Loss of domestic and   Proper storage and
water contamination                          irrigation water supply;  handling of fuel;
illness to humans and  containment of fuel
livestock; lost revenue;  containers within
altered and damaged    concrete bunded area
aquatic ecosystems
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: NONE
Risk: LOW - MODERATE
31



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Table 10.18
| Veterinary Services
Significance of Overall Potential Impacts: HIGH
PotentfiIlUMrec        Poenlial IndireZ1".1 'PoIiAnfia    ~~ ___   ~                 redtga
Imilill ac.I.                                                   s I._acts   fequeUEMS V' - 
Meat and dairy products                       Human illness          Organic methods of     Only approved drugs and hormones should be used
containing hormones                                                  livestock husbandry    but even these could have some long term, and yet
and other chemicals                                                  should be applied;     unknown, effects on humans
minimal application of
only necessary drugs
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: NONE
Risk:LOW
Table 10.19
Breeding Services
Significance of Overall Potential Impacts: NONE
I Pote,n,tial            PoWenial Indr                           '<    '   ion iReqiiMdV 
I'm acts                                                 esrpcs  qlC~~! 
Not Applicable
Residual Impact Assuming Full Mitigation: N/A
Risk:N/A
32



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT
A. MITIGATION PLAN
Cost                  Institutional          Comments
Responsibility        (e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase                 Issue               Mitigating         Install    Operate      Install      Operate
Measure
Construction
_~~~~~~
Operation
Decommissioning
33



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
B. MONITORING PLAN
Cost                   Responsibility
Phase        What         Where        How          When         Why       Install  Operate    Install   Operate
parameter     is the       is the       is the     Is   the
is to be    parameter  parameter to  parameter to  paramete
monitored?    to be    be monitored! be monitored- r to  be
monitored?    type of    frequency of
monitoring  measurement   monitore
equipment?       or       d
continuous?  (optional
Baseline
(Usually for
Category A
Projects only)
Construct
Operate
34



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Decommission
35






Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.    Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
List:
* Type of equipment
* Number of Units
* Unit cost
* Total Cost
* Local or International Purchase
2.    Training/Study Tours
List:
* Type of Training (Mitigation, Monitoring, Environmental Management, Other)
* Number of Students
Current and Future Organizational Unit in Which They Work or
Current and Future Title/Job Description
* Duration of Training
* Start Date/End Date (for each student)
* Venue of Training (Domestic or Abroad)
* Institute or Organization to Provide Training
* Cost (Local and Foreign)
3.    Consultant Services
* Type of Service
* Terms of Reference
* Justification
* Cost
4.    Special Studies
* Justification
* Terms of Reference
* Cost
37



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
D. SCHEDULE
Present (preferably in Chart Form) Start Dates and Finish Dates for:
* Mitigation Activities
* Monitoring Activities
* Training Activities
This information should be on the same chart defining the overall project schedule
(Project Implementation Plan)
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A narrative discussion supported by organizational charts detailing:
* Responsibilities for mitigation and monitoring
* Environmental information flow (reporting-from who and to who and how
often)
* Decision making chain of command for environmental management (to take
action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down, etc.)
In short, how is all the monitoring data going to be used to maintain sound
environmental performance-who collects the data, who analyzes it, who prepares
reports, who are the reports sent to and how often, and who does that person send it to, or
what does he/she do with the information-who has the authority to spend, shutdown,
change operations etc.
F. CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT-AFFECTED GROUPS
Provide documentation of the following:
*   Date(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
* Location(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
* Who was invited
Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
number/address (home and/or office)
* Who attended
Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
number/address (home and/or office)
* Meeting Program/Schedule
What is to be presented and by whom
* Summary Meeting Minutes (Comments, Questions and Response by Presenters)
38



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
39



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
A2        Documentation of Public Consultation
Meeting Attendance SSCADP EA Public Consultations
Mostar
July 31, 2002
Ime IName              Institucija lInstitution     Kontakt informacije
Zeljko Ostojic       Pubic Enterprise for the "Water   036/ 397-892
catchment area of the Adriatic Sea"
Mirko garac          Pubic Enterprise for the "Water   036/397-881, fax 397-
catchment area of the Adriatic Sea"  883
Stjepan Bagaric      Federation Ministry of Agriculture,  219-581
Water Supply and Forestry
Samir Sunagic        Water Supply and Forestry of
Herzegovina-Neretva Can
Marijan Bilic        Beekeeper - Beekeeping Bilic
Ivan Bilic           Beekeeper - Beekeeping Bilic
Zeljko Ostojic       Individual
Miro Milicevic       Vodoprivreda company, Ljubuski
Tomo Rupcic          Vodoprivreda, Company Ljubuski
Zdenko Grbavac       Chamber of Commerce of the West-  039 682-246
Herzegovina Canton                063 329-360
Mile Bubalo          Municipality Ljubuski
Srecko Jelcic        FBiH Chamber of Commerce
Pero Raguz           FDS, Stolac
Davor Vasilj         <<Agrohercegovina>> Company.      039 832-791
Ljubuski                          063-323-521
Tomo Rupcic          Water works Ljubuski               039 833-407
Mladen Gaspar        Hepok - Winery Ljubuski           039 831-652
fax 831-644
Franjo Trescec       Hercegovina Produkt Company.      036 650-980
Ljubuski
40



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Marko Ivankovic      Trade - West Herzegovina Canton
Pero Beno            Trade -Herzegovina Neretva Canton
Milenko Soce         "Plantaze Capljina" dd, Company
Dragan Kresic        S.O. Capljina
Dragan Dadic         P.Z. "Sunce", Capljina
Tormislav Vego       O.V, Capljina
Karlo Popovic        Agricultural Institute, Mostar
Marijo Leko          Agricultural Institute, Mostar
Zijo Demirovic       Municipality Mostar - South-East
Vjekoslav Bakula     Ministry of Physical Planning and  039 682-164
Environment of WH Canton
Natasa Slipicevic    Ministry of Agriculture, Hercegovina
Neretva Canton
Ribi6                Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
works and Forestry
Jozo Juric           Public Communal Enterprise         039 831-127
"Ljubuski" doo
Mladen Vasic         Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water  233-801
works and Forestry
Erina Lasic          Individual / citizen               219-581
Branimir Jokic       Individual / Citizen
Ivan Stankovic       Individual /Citizen
Zijo Isic            Municipality Mostar - South-East
Almir Kazazic        Agronomist, Konjic
Emil Novalic         Municipality Mostar-North
Predrag Supljeglav   Agricultural Cooperative "Tresnja
product"
Dragan Supljeglav    Agricultural Cooperative "Tresnja
product"
Adis Saric           Federation Ministry of Social Afairs,
Refugees and Displaced Persons
41



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Rasim Delic           Federation Ministry of Social Afairs,
Refugees and Displaced Persons
Kemal Balavac        Agricultural Cooperative "Dubrave",
Stolac
Halil Turajlic       President of the Supervisory Board of
Agricultural Cooperative "Dubrave"
Huso Kapic            PKF BiH
Mehmed Bebmen         Faculty of Mechanical Engineering,
Mostar
Huso Kapic           JAFFA-Komerc, Blagaj
Dino Djipa            PRISM Research
Bosko Zaradic        Individual
"Health Foods", Mostar
Enver Zeco            "Health Foods", Mostar
Ahmed Dzubur          "Dzemal Bijedic" University,
Agromediteranian Culture Department
Hamid Tikvesa        Individual/ Citizen
Hamo Abaza            Individual / Citizen
Vladimir Trninic      Faculty of Agriculture, Mostar
Andrija Raguz         Stolacki podrumi
Nikola Raguz          ZOHSS, Mostar
Marko Matic           Faculty of Agriculture, Mostar
Jakov Pehar           Agricultural Institute
Esma Kreso            Bosna-S Oil Services Co.
Domagoj Bacic        Bosna-S Oil Services Co.
Savo Radovic         Bosna-S Oil Services Co.
Ivica Katalinic      Bosna-S Oil Services Co.
42



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Meeting Attendance SSCADP EA Public Consultations
Trebinie
August 1, 2002
Rade Drinjak          Municipality Trebinje                 059 220-345
Predrag Supljeglav    Agricultural Cooperative "Tresnja
product"
Savo Drinjak          predsjenik Regionalne Privredne komore
Trebinje
Ilija Sukic           referent za poljoprivredu u RPK Trebinje
Borislav Obradovi6     Reginalna Savjetodavna sluzba Trebinje
Olga Vidacic          Regionalan Savjetodavna sluzba Trebinje
Mihajlo Mijanovi6     nacelnik Opstine Trebinje
Ljiljana Perovic      nacelnik Odelenja za privredu i drustvene
djelatnosti
Rade Drinjak          referent za poljoprivredu, Opstina Trebinje
Vesko Budinci6        nacelnik Opstine Ljubinje
Risto Perisic         nacelnik za privredu Opstine Ljubinje
Ranko Lucic           nacelnik Opstine Berkovic
Dobroslav Muratovic   referent za privredu Opstine Berkovici
Ratko Vukoje          nacelnik Opstine Bileca
Milivoje Radovanovi6  nacelnik za privredu Opstine Bile6a
Milutin Donlaga       visi strucni saradnik za privredu Opstine
Bileca
Lazar Jokanovi6       Agroprom " Bileca
Simo Sulovic          "Divin" Bileca
Dragan Bjelica        "Berkovi6i"" Berkovi6i
Dragan Bukvic         " Trebinje" Trebinje
Blaze Jokanovic       " Lastva" Trebinje
43



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Stevo Drapic          " Ljubinje-koka" Ljubinje
Mihajlo Duci6         Udruzenje p6elara Trebinje
Veljko Vasiljevi6     Udruzenje gradana INVEST Trebinje
Rade Andeli6          Ijekovito bilje i etericna ulja, Trebinje
Dorde Mari6           Ijekovito bilje i etericna ulja, Trebinje
Viado Siskovi6        farmna koka, Trebinje
Drago Dangubic        proizvodnja pilica, Bile6a
Zarko Dzaji6          farmer, Trebinje
Vlado Jankovi6        farmer, Trebinje
Ratko Jokanovic       farmer, Trebinje
Radivoje Maksimovic   pdelar, Trebinje
Nenad Vukoje          vlasnik Mljekare Padeni, Bileca
Vico Obrad            vlasnik Mljekare "Vipeks" Trebinje
Zeljko Rogan          vlasnik AD "Rogan" Berkovici (proizv. i
prerada mesa)
Savo Tarana           vlasnik "DTS" Trebinje (proizvodnja i
prodaja mesa)
Dusan Koljibabic      direktor DOO "Ljubinje-koka " Ljubinje
Milan Stupar          direktor AD "Popovo polje" Trebinje
Tomo Berak            direktor AD "Agrokop" Trebinje
Gojko Lecic           direktor AD "Plantaze" Ljubinje
Milivoje Janjos       direktor AD "Hepok" Berkovi6i
44



Environmental Assessment: SSCADP SoutEast Herzegovina
Literature
1. Study A Ljubuski prepared by Consulting firm Anton Vukojevic - Ljubuski
2. Study B Ljubuski prepared by Consulting firm Anton Vukojevic - Ljubuski
3. Study A Trebinje prepared by Consulting firm Institute for Water Management Bijeljina
(Office Trebinje - Bratic Radivoje)
4. Study B Trebinje prepared by Consulting firm Institute for Water Management Bijeljina (Office
Trebinje - Bratic Radivoje
5. The World Bank Operation Manual ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESMENT OP4.01 January 1999
6. The World Bank Operation Manual PROJECTS ON INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS -
Applicability of Policy OP7.50 June 2001
7. FAO Program Environmental Assessment for Irrigation and Drainage
(http://www.fao.org/docrepNV8350E/v8350e01.htm 7/4/02)
8. ENCIKLOPEDIJA JUGOSLAVIJE - SR Bosna i Hercegovina - JLZ Zagreb 1983
9. ENERGOINVEST Technology, Science Engineering No 4 November 1972
10. ENERGOINVEST Technology, Science Engineering No 18 November 1981
11. WATER PROTECTION ASSESSMENT REPORT FOR HAZARDOUS WASTE IN BOSNIA
AND HERZEGOVINA Sarajevo, December 2001 - Hydro Engineering Institute Sarajevo
12. Detailed Assessment of Past Reports and Available Data on the Trebisnjica and Neretva Basin -
Republika srpska - Zavod za Vodoprivredu Bijeljina 2002
13. Symposium on influence of artificial lakes on human environment - "Saopstenja" - Reports
Trebinje 1978
45



