                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001232



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-37420)



                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION
                      (US$ 12.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                    FOR A

   SMALL SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                October 20, 2010




Sustainable Development department
South East Europe Country Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective September 2010)

                             Currency Unit = SDR
                              1.00 = US$ 1.4535
                              US$ 1.00 = 0.6879

                                FISCAL YEAR

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AK      Agro-Kombinat
APCU    Agriculture Project Coordination Unit
BiH     Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
EU      European Union
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FBiH    Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FOs     Farmers Organizations
FSRY    Former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia
GAP     Good Agricultural Practices
GTZ     Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
HACCP   Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPARD   Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for Rural Development
JCGC    Joint Competitive Grants Committee
LIP     Local Initiative Project
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MCO     Micro Credit Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
OHR     Office of the High Representative
PCB     Participating Commercial Banks
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
RS      Republika Srpska
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
SPS     Sanitary and Phyto-sanitary
USAID   Agency for International Development
WTO     World Trade Organization
WUA     Water Users Association

                        Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                      Country Director: Jane Armitage
                       Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
                  Project Team Leader: Cora Melania Shaw
                     ICR Team Leader: Cora Melania Shaw
                  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
  SMALL SCALE COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 47
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 49
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 53
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 54
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 58
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 59
  MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Small-Scale
                        Bosnia and                                         Commercial
Country:                                         Project Name:
                        Herzegovina                                        Agriculture
                                                                           Development Project
Project ID:             P055434                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37420
ICR Date:               10/20/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           BOSNIA-
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        XDR 8.7M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 8.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 8.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Federation Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry
 RS Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/07/2001      Effectiveness:             07/28/2003        07/28/2003
Appraisal:            10/07/2002      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/25/2003      Mid-term Review:           05/15/2006        05/12/2006
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2009        03/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   14                  10
Agricultural marketing and trade                                      17                  10
Agro-industry                                                         29                  30
Crops                                                                 15                  20
Irrigation and drainage                                               25                  30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                20                  20
Rural markets                                                         20                  20
Rural non-farm income generation                                      20                  10
Rural policies and institutions                                       20                  20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     20                  30

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Neil Simon M. Gray
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger                 Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:       Cora Melania Shaw                    Rapeepun Jaisaard Adkins
ICR Team Leader:           Cora Melania Shaw
ICR Primary Author:        Daniel P. Gerber
                           David Gordon Lugg




                                               ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To develop private, market integrated commercial agriculture in selected low income,
high potential areas of southern Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project PDO was never modified.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage increase in marketed output
                                                                               Marketable surplus
                                                                               of milk has
                                            It is expected that                doubled, areas
                                            the marketable                     under wineyards
Value
                Only 5% of farm             surplus at the end                 has doubled.
quantitative or                                                 Not revised
                production is marketed.     of the project                     Horticultural areas
Qualitative)
                                            would be about                     have increased by
                                            50%.                               25%. Combined
                                                                               livestock figures
                                                                               increased by 30%.
Date achieved     06/06/2003                06/30/2009         06/30/2006      12/31/2009
Comments
                  The increase in production has been recorded primarily in areas where irrigation
(incl. %
                  infrastructure has been rehabilitated
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Agricultural productivity and yields
Value           Potato - 8.5t/ha           Potato = 30 t/ha                   Potato = 44t/ha
quantitative or Tomato - 6.6 t/ha          Tomato = 35t/ha Not revised        Tomato = 48t/ha
Qualitative)    Peppers - 5.6 t/ha         Peppers = 27t/ha                   Peppers = 40t/ha
Date achieved   06/30/2006                 06/30/2006          06/30/2006      06/30/2010
                Productivity in horticulture has dramatically increased in large part due to better
Comments
                supply of seedlings, water and other inputs. Other production, such a milk yields
(incl. %
                have not changed much due to poor feeding practices and seasonality of
achievement)
                production.
Indicator 3 : Increase in income and assets
                22% of respondent have a                                      33% of respondents
                car or truck.                                                 have a car or truck.
Value
                25% have farm                                                 32% have farm
quantitative or                            Not identified      Not revised
                machinery                                                     machinery
Qualitative)
                11% have irrigation                                           19% have irrigation
                equipment                                                     equipment
Date achieved 06/30/2003                   06/30/2003          06/30/2006      06/30/2009
Comments        While increases in assets are observable accross respondents in project areas,



                                                 iii
(incl. %          attribution to increased farm income is difficult mainly because off-farm income
achievement)      has increased considerably in and around project areas.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                       Target Years
                  Number of market commodity analyses undertaken and the amount of
Indicator 1 :
                  information available to producers in the project area.
                                             Commodity
                                             analysis and
Value             No commodity analyses
                                             market
(quantitative     and market information                         Not revised   3
                                             information
or Qualitative)   available.
                                             available for 5
                                             commodities.
Date achieved     06/06/2003                 06/30/2009          06/30/2006    12/30/2009
Comments          Commodity analysises prepared for 3 comodities. Dropped as produced is
(incl. %          increasingly sourced by grocery chains that make their own comodity analysis as
achievement)      they enter the market
Indicator 2 :     Number of farmer, water user and trader associations registered and functioning.
                                                                               35 producers
                                             At least 20 farmers               cooperatives
                                             cooperatives, and                 operating in project
                                             30 water user                     area and
Value             There are no farmer        associations, and 3               functionning. 37
(quantitative     associations or water      processor and       Not revised   WUAs registered
or Qualitative)   users associations.        trader associations               and functionning. 5
                                             will be registered                producers and
                                             and functioning                   traders associations
                                             well.                             registered and
                                                                               operating
Date achieved     06/30/2003                 06/30/2009          06/30/2003    12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The original target has been exceeded
achievement)
                Irrigation system rehabilitated with reliable water delivery in planned irrigation
Indicator 3 :
                service area totaling 3367ha.
Value           Only small area irrigated                                       100% of the
(quantitative   due to damaged irrigation 0                    Not revised      planned 544ha in
or Qualitative) canals                                                          RS and 2823 FBiH
Date achieved 06/06/2006                    06/30/2009         12/30/2009       12/30/2009
Comments
                The above figure excludes the small multi purpose schemes that were established
(incl. %
                under the project
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Portfolio at risk: Microfinance (percentage) - Core indicator
Value                                       Not defined at
                0                                              0                1.5%
(quantitative                               appraisal


                                                 iv
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/30/2003                  08/30/2003          06/30/2006     12/30/2009
Comments          Added core indicator-
(incl. %          Portfolio at risk from lending to agricultural households is lower than that of
achievement)      other borrowers.
Indicator 5 :     Portfolio at risk: Microfinance (percentage) - Core indicator
Value
                                             Not defined at
(quantitative     0                                               0              1.5%
                                             appraisal
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/30/2003                  08/30/2003          06/30/2006     12/30/2009
Comments          Added core indicator-
(incl. %          Portfolio at risk from lending to agricultural households is lower than that of
achievement)      other borrowers.
Indicator 6 :     Portfolio at risk: Microfinance (percentage) - Core indicator
Value
                                             Not defined at
(quantitative     0                                                              1.5%
                                             appraisal
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/30/2003                  08/30/2003          06/30/2006     12/30/2009
Comments          Added core indicator-
(incl. %          Portfolio at risk from lending to agricultural households is lower than that of
achievement)      other borrowers.
Indicator 7 :     No of active loan accounts - Microfinance (number) - Core Indicator
Value
(quantitative     0                          Not defined          1000           <5000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/30/2003                 08/30/2003           06/30/2006     12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Average loan size of 2,500 Euro.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     04/22/2003           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     07/11/2003           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     01/15/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.72
  4     07/15/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.86
  5     12/08/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.24
  6     05/19/2005           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      2.60
  7     12/08/2005           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      4.22
  8     06/19/2006       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               5.44
  9     11/27/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      6.50
 10     06/12/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      8.70
 11     11/19/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      9.56
 12     05/30/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    11.02


                                                   v
 13    12/29/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   12.29
 14    08/06/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   12.72
 15    01/07/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory   13.02


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

As of the late 1990s when the project was prepared, the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina had
recovered substantially from the post-war period. However, GDP remained only at about 40% of
its prewar level. Actual employment was estimated at 20%. While both entity governments were
committed to reforms to bring sustained growth to the economy and undertake the transition to
the market economy, the actual process had been slower than hoped. Since the end of the war,
the country has received substantial amounts of financial assistance from donors, starting with
humanitarian food aid and support to returned refugees. Eventually humanitarian aid evolved into
support for institutional, regulatory and financial-sector reforms. However, even though the
country experienced a transition phase from stabilization to sustained growth, the agricultural
sector was lagging. Farmers were disproportionately poor and typically produced for family
subsistence with just a small surplus for the market.

Small-scale subsistence farmers, dominated the agriculture sector in BiH, and production was far
below potential. Farm productivity and incomes remained low due to outdated technology, low-
intensity production systems, lack of water during the summer dry period, incomplete land
privatization and limited capital for seeds and farm inputs. Incentives for farmers to increase
marketed surplus were also weak, due to poor marketing infrastructure, as well as inadequate
agro-processing facilities which paid low prices, had poor quality control, and outdated
technology. At the end of the war, the agro-processing industry was operating at less than 10 %
of its pre-war capacity due to heavy damage to buildings and equipment. In addition, the raw
material supply and sales channels had been disrupted.

Agribusiness in Bosnia and Herzegovina was never an export locomotive but after the war the
sector produced less than at any time in its history. At project inception food imports were
estimated at about 1 billion KM per year. Grey imports played a very significant role
undermining efforts to develop local agriculture and a food processing industry. Total war
damage in the country has been estimated at US$ 6.0 billion. In some areas, up to two thirds of
farm assets and livestock were lost. An estimated 1 million people left the country and up to
200,000 were reported dead or missing. This situation and limited purchasing power after the war
led to significant changes of demand for food products.

In the project areas of both entities, farms are small and the family has to search for labor-
intensive production systems with low capital requirements. The high percentage of absolute
pasturelands favors cattle and sheep production. In economic terms: opportunity costs for labor
and pasturelands is low, which suggests that intensive livestock production systems such as dairy
and poultry or horticulture would have a competitive advantage.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

The project area is divided into the two entities, the Republika Srpska (RS) and the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH), and the level of trust among farmers and other stakeholders
living in different ethnic communities remained low. The project area had been largely left out of
the main aid channels during the reconstruction period. These events, coupled with the decline of
the Agro-Kombinats, had resulted in a loss of traditional market linkages and information
channels; poorly maintained infrastructure including irrigation systems; and weak technical and
credit services. The BiH farm sector consisted of a combination of previously socially owned


                                                 1
large farms and small-scale farmers averaging 1 ha in size, usually fragmented in several parcels,
producing food primarily for family consumption and a small surplus for the market. In the
project area, some large farms existed in some irrigated areas particularly with orchards and
vineyards, but small farmers were predominant throughout the area with low productivity
resulting from outdated technology, low-intensity production systems, limited capital for farm
infrastructure and inputs, and lack of irrigation water. While some areas had significant
horticultural production in the past other project areas were always more marginal and only had
some sparse livestock production. Demand was increasing for high quality products as a result of
increasing stability and restoration of the tourist industry on the Adriatic coast. Local agricultural
and horticultural production was beginning to respond, but there was a concern that these market
opportunities would be lost due to the slow progress and continuing issues in the aftermath of the
conflict.

The rational for Bank assistance stemmed from its strategy to support the rebuilding of economic
and social infrastructure in line with the Dayton Accords.

Country Assistance Strategy and Government strategies supported by the Project

The project objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (Report 20592 BIH
dated 06/14/2000) objectives identified in the CAS Progress Report of November 2002 as: (i)
strengthening institutions and governance, (ii) fostering private sector-led growth; and (iii)
building social sustainability. Among the CAS development priorities, the following were
particularly relevant: (a) development of a market-oriented private sector, (b) increased
employment and reduced poverty; (c) enhanced trade with neighboring and European countries,
(d) increased cooperation between the two entities and (e) improved opportunity for export-led
growth.

The country's first economic strategy entitled "Economic Development: A Global Framework for
Bosnia and Herzegovina" was approved by Parliament in June 2001. The main focus was on
private sector growth to reduce unemployment and poverty, while restructuring the social safety
net to protect the poorest in a cost-effective way. Based on the economic strategy, the
government's IPRSP prioritized promoting private sector activity, strengthening the financial
sector and establishing an enabling environment for domestic and foreign investment. A special
focus was placed on agriculture to improve returns to the working poor, particularly those in rural
and semi-urban areas. The state was also pursuing efforts to liberalize trade and open up regional
markets, with trade agreements already concluded with Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro, and
Macedonia. The Ministries of Agriculture of the two entities had adopted their agriculture sector
development strategies, which viewed increased productivity and output from small-scale private
farmers and private-sector agro-processors as critical to future sector development. It
recommended supporting the intensification of small-farm agriculture, increasing investment in
agro-processing, developing marketing linkages between producers and processors, strengthening
rural land markets, and increasing access to credit through commercial banks, agricultural
cooperatives and micro-finance organizations.

The project aimed to support these CAS priorities and government strategies, with broad-based
growth of private-sector commercial agriculture a major theme and the main beneficiaries being
private farmers, traders and processors. Specifically, market integration, commercial farmer
development and private agribusiness support activities were designed to develop linkages
between producers and processors; encourage adoption of quality standards; expand credit
availability for producers and agribusinesses; introduce innovative production and marketing



                                                  2
technologies; and restore irrigation for improved productivity with communities making key
decisions on the irrigation infrastructure and its use and maintenance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective was to develop private, market-integrated commercial
agriculture in selected low income, high potential areas of southern Bosnia and Herzegovina. To
accomplish this, the project aimed to: (a) encourage farmers to adopt more productive and
profitable production systems and increase the marketability of their surplus production; (b) assist
them in marketing their produce through the formation of new-style cooperatives and other
marketing associations; (c) create a dynamic commercial agriculture by strengthening the
linkages among farmers and markets through the promotion of private sector investment in and
credit for farming, agro-processing and trading; (d) facilitate the export of agricultural products,
including those aimed at niche markets, through information and technical assistance; and, (e)
support measures and investments to strengthen the physical and institutional infrastructure of
rural communities.

Achievement of the project development objectives were to be measured by the volume of (a)
incremental marketable surplus, (b) increased productivity reflected in bigger yields in project
areas and, (c) increased income and assets from increased agricultural production reflected
mainly in by agricultural assets.

At the component level this was measured by the (a) availability and use of market information in
the form of commodity market studies (b) number of farmer cooperatives, water-user, and traders
associations registered and functioning; (c) number of investment proposals submitted and
approved by commercial banks and micro credit organizations; (d) number of competitive grant
proposals approved and implemented with technology adoption, (e) percentage of irrigation
facilities and area rehabilitated, (f) the number of loans made to SMEs and through micro lending
and loan repayment performance; and; (g) number of viable technologies developed under the
competitive grants program and adapted to local environments and markets.

The results framework in the PAD was exhaustive, but also complex, and tended to lead more to
a measurement of outputs rather than outcomes of the project as reflected in production volumes,
productivity, and incomes/assets. The attribution of the obtained outcomes to the delivery of the
identified outputs, given the changing economy in the country, and the large portion of off- farm
income of many households surveyed is tenuous as reflected in the Project Completion Survey.
In addition, the results framework lacked good baseline data, thus the measurement of project
impact was difficult. The complexity of the results framework is also to be attributed to the
relatively complex design of components, where activities under one subcomponent, were often
linked to activities in another one leading to misunderstanding of respective component
objectives.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and key indicators were not formally revised. However towards the end of the project,
the newly developed core indictors for credit and micro credit activities were added to the ISR.
The information had always been collected, but was presented in such a manner that several
indicators where combined into a single one.




                                                 3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The main target groups, as identified in the PAD, were small and medium-scale private operators
- farmers, agro-processors and agricultural traders. The project also aimed to assist farmer
cooperatives and processor and trader organizations. The targeting strategy was to support only
those communities and producer groups that expressed the need for assistance and showed the
ability, in the case of producer groups, to operate as member-oriented groups, such as water-user
associations and new-style marketing and/or processing cooperatives. The project had a total
estimated population of 137,600, from which the target groups were drawn. The area is a mix of
mountainous areas, with fertile river valleys, interspersed forest, pasture and arable land for
intensive farming, with a largely Mediterranean climate.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had four components to support the development of commercial agriculture as a
mechanism for revitalizing the economy. These components were as follows:

Component 1: Market Integration (US$ 1.5 million)
This component would strengthen linkages among farmers, private agribusinesses and markets
necessary for a dynamic commercial agriculture and would promote the development of local
farmer, processor and traders associations and new-style cooperatives. Sub-components were:
(a) Market development. The sub-component would improve provision of market information
to all participants in the value chain by assisting farmer organizations, new-style cooperatives,
processor and traders associations and government agencies to develop market information
services and disseminate the information. Support would include market studies, training,
workshops, publications, and technical assistance.
(b) Quality Improvement. The project would assist in the development of quality specifications
and food safety consistent with market opportunities and legal requirements of the EU and other
international markets through technical assistance and training programs in Sanitary and
Phytosanitary (SPS) measures and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
standards, and would finance innovative quality improvement programs and certification systems
for potential export products.
(c) Cooperative and Association Development. This sub-component would strengthen existing
and develop new farmer groups, associations and marketing cooperatives to enable small farmers
to effectively participate in high-quality agricultural markets. These organizations could schedule
production, collect farmer output, grade and pack produce and provide market information,
quality control, technology and credit. The project would finance review and disseminate the
experience of the more advanced groups, associations and cooperatives; train farmer groups,
associations and cooperatives; and support programs to establish and strengthen associations for
bee-keepers, fruit and vegetable producers and meat and dairy producers in the two entities.
Cooperatives could also apply both for competitive grant funds and credit from commercial banks
and MCOs and receive periodic short-term technical assistance and training.

Component 2: Private Agribusiness Support (US$ 4.06 million)
This component would strengthen private agribusinesses to provide effective demand for primary
output and add value to agriculture products. Sub-components were:
(a) Development of Bankable Proposals. The project would facilitate access to bank credit by
commercial farmers, processors, packers, traders, cooperatives and private wholesale markets for


                                                4
agricultural production, processing and marketing investments. Potential participants would be
required to meet program eligibility criteria and would present proposals to commercial banks for
appraisal. Processors, packers and traders selected should have sustainable market prospects
linked to production in the project area. The project would help establish and train a group of
economists and financial analysts to provide advice and assistance to farmers, agro-processors
and traders in preparing business plans to obtain loans from commercial banks.
(b) Enterprise Credit. The project would provide funds to participating commercial banks for
on-lending to agriculture enterprises in the project areas. The funds would be repaid over a
period of 10 years at an interest rate based on the six-month Euro Libor rate. Interest rates would
be assessed at six monthly intervals and interest payments made half-yearly. The participating
commercial banks would assume the full interest risk and would on-lend to final beneficiaries on
market terms. Participating banks would be from an approved list of commercial banks that
passed due diligence tests, met project criteria, expressed willingness to lend to agriculture, and
had branches in the project areas and staff available to be trained in appraising agriculture loans.
(c) Technical assistance would be provided to participating banks for training staff in appraising
agriculture project proposals and the design of loan terms suited to agriculture and agribusiness.

Component 3: Commercial Farmer Development (US$ 6.7 million)
The project would focus on improved technologies to support market-led producer diversification,
specialization and intensification; facilitate access of commercial farmers to micro-credit; and
improve reliability of water supplies. Sub-components were:
(a) Technology Development. Through a Competitive Grant Program (CGP), this sub-
component would support individual producers, community groups and agricultural processors to
test and develop technology in line with identified market opportunities, and would build
institutional capacity of public and private rural service providers to support the applicants.
About 30 applied research grants up to Euro 18,500 would be provided for new technologies
including crop varieties, improved farm practices, higher yields, improved quality, reduced
production costs, and value-adding strategies for existing and new products and markets. About
30 technology demonstrations up to Euro 5,000 would also be provided on farmers' fields and in
assembly markets and processing industries. Technology demonstrations would be managed by
farmer groups on member's fields under the guidance of an agricultural advisor. Processing
demonstrations would be done in participating processing plants or institutions in the project
areas. Demonstration projects proposed during project preparation ranged from new crop variety
demonstration, new livestock production technologies to new materials for packaging and
processing and improved quality of final products; greenhouse production; and improved
packaging. Evaluation criteria were given in a Competitive Grant Program Operations Manual,
included environmental impact.
(b) Micro-Credit. The project would facilitate access for individual small and medium-sized
farmers to finance for small capital improvements and working capital through existing eligible
micro-credit organizations (MCOs). It was anticipated these credits would be used primarily for
equipment, e.g. tractors, and agriculture inputs, e.g. seeds. Sub-loans by the MCOs would range
from KM 1,000 - 30,000 with the MCOs assuming all of the risk. The project would also provide
technical assistance to: (i) design, test and introduce micro-credit products suited to agriculture;
(ii) strengthen the capacity of MCOs to appraise agricultural loans; and (iii) strengthen the
capacity of MCOs to manage loan portfolios with a higher proportion of agricultural loans.
(c) Irrigation Rehabilitation. The project would finance irrigation improvements for private
farmers to increase productivity and quality of their commercial production. It would involve
redesign, repair and improvement of existing irrigation systems. Improvements in Ljubuski and
Trebinje would include: (i) cleaning of main canals, drains and removal of debris; (ii) repair of
diversion weirs, structures, flood banks, and canal and drainage channel banks; (iii) repair of
gates at the main diversion, control and drainage structures; (iv) improvement of access to control


                                                 5
structures and to gates; (v) improvement of outlets to farms; and (vi) assistance in water
management and the formation of water users groups. Improvements in Dubrava Plateau would
include development of water harvesting systems and formation of water user groups. The initial
works proposed for each area would act as the catalyst to small farmers to improve on-farm
channels by ensuring reliable water delivery near to their farm gate. Irrigation investments
financed by the project would be designed to be economic by avoiding capital- and electricity-
intensive systems in favor of low-cost systems already in use in the project areas. The project
would strengthen capacity of existing water user associations in management of the on-farm
irrigation system including operation and maintenance and to assist farmers to form new effective
self-financing water user groups.

Component 4: Project Management (US$ 1.87 million)
The project would strengthen project implementation units in both the FBiH and RS. It would
increase existing capability to manage day-to-day project activities and coordinate work with
local implementation units. The project would finance consultants, incremental staff, office
equipment, vehicles and other project-related operating expenses.

1.6 Revised Components
There were no formal revisions to the project components.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)
There were no significant project design changes. However, the Competitive Grant Program in
Component 3 intended to test and develop technologies was cut back and replaced with more
field demonstration necessitating less involvement by the state-funded scientific community. In
addition, some reallocation of resources between activities occurred with Market Integration
activities under Component 1 and the Grants Program under Component 3 being trimmed back
and resources reallocated to credit and irrigation where demand was higher and potential impact
on marketable surplus production and productivity could be more easily measured.

At the MTR in May 2006, it was anticipated that the project would close a year early since
disbursements were ahead of schedule. The Micro-Credit and Irrigation activities under
Component 3 were ahead of schedule even though the Market Integration and Research Grants
were far behind schedule. The MTR presented an agreed action plan and re-allocation proposals
to disburse all remaining funds by the end of 2008. However, due to subsequent currency gains
of almost US$ 1 million (around 110% of the amount estimated at appraisal), this change was not
formally instituted and the final closing date remained the end of 2009. Ultimately even this
closing date was extended to March 30, 2010 mainly to use remaining project resources to
finance initial studies for the preparation of a new irrigation project in BiH that would expand on
some of the irrigation work that has been undertaken under SSCADP in other areas of the country.

Monitoring and Evaluation: The project undertook a baseline survey at inception. The survey
however was not structured in a manner that would ensure replicability of results when the survey
would be repeated at Mid Term and project end. A revision was made to the project's
intermediate outcome indicators at the mid-term review to focus mainly on production indicators.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




                                                6
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
a. Lessons of earlier operations. The project design took into account lessons learned from
earlier projects such as Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project in FBiH and Reconstruction
Assistance Project in RS. These and other reconstruction projects focused on activities such as
restocking livestock and replacing equipment following the conflict rather than on development.
The SSCAD Project aimed to take the next step and focused on growth through improved
irrigation and enhancing availability of credit, improvement of technology, and developing better
linkages between production and markets. The project also identified support to small-to-
medium-sized commercial farmers and processors rather than the poorest households.
For irrigation activities, the project aimed to use best practices in the development of water users
associations and focused on rehabilitation of small schemes rather than new construction. For
credit operations, the project learned lessons from the Local Initiatives Project I (LIP-1) which
was attempting to establish institutions suited to providing financial services to small-scale
enterprises. However, since agricultural loans typically accounted for only 5-10% of small and
medium enterprise lending with existing micro-credit meeting less than 20% of demand, the
project provided a credit line for bank and non-bank financial institutions and provided technical
assistance for lenders. Regional experience of Competitive Grant Schemes (CGP) provided
lessons for the CGP, including obtaining prior commitment from the government; consulting with
potential participants to ensure awareness and ownership; and incorporating transparency and
close monitoring to ensure strict adherence from the outset to the program rules.
b. Risks: A large number of risks were identified at project preparation, although all were
considered modest or negligible. Risks were related to legislative and regulatory reform in the
banking, cooperative and SPS sectors, market liberalization, credit risks, limited cooperation
among beneficiaries, and deficiencies in the research system. The project intended to address
them with training and external technical assistance and capacity building as deemed necessary.
A possible risk of not keeping the grant approval process transparent and apolitical was identified,
so a detailed grant manual was developed that outlined procedures for reviewing grants and
application processes. One further risk not clearly identified at entry was the possible
institutional complications resulting from two PMUs and political differences among the entities.
c. Adequacy of participatory process. The project made good use of participatory mechanisms.
Potential participating banks and micro-credit organizations were consulted during project
preparation on financial arrangements, the criteria to be used in evaluating loan applications from
final beneficiaries, and training of their staff. An irrigation system improvement plan was
developed with support from municipal engineers, and selection of schemes and design of
improvements were made in consultation with water users, with the users responsible for
investments below secondary level. The scientific communities and beneficiaries participated in
the design of the Competitive Grant Program and the preparation and implementation of grants,
and farmers participated in the field testing and demonstration programs. Activities implemented
by cooperatives and associations were based primarily on their own evaluation of their needs.
The State Ministries and Ministers of Finance of FBiH and RS were consulted during project
preparation and were broadly in support. The Agriculture Ministries in both entities actively
discussed project design, activities and location; each appointed a team during preparation; and
made arrangements for project management. Consultation meetings with potential beneficiaries
and stakeholders were held in RS and FBiH during project preparation with active involvement
from the FBiH and RS preparation teams. Other consultations were held for social assessment
and environmental studies, and a consultative workshop was also held to discuss the Competitive
Grant Program.



                                                 7
d. Project Design. While the project design took lessons learned into account and made use of
participatory mechanisms, there is a high degree of complexity in the project with many
interlinked sub-components and activities. This complexity is reflected by the 8 disbursement
categories in the legal agreement. The market integration component, for example, consists of
three inter-linked and overlapping sub-components: market development, quality improvement,
and cooperative and association development, which were difficult to separate. Market
integration activities were also supported through the competitive grant and credit components of
the project. The two credit sub-components, micro-credit and agribusiness credit, while aimed at
two different sets of clients, are in two separate components. While it is understood that this
design is aimed at the desired outcomes  market integration, agribusiness development and
commercial farm development  management had to be largely based on more easily identifiable
subject matters, i.e. such as irrigation and credit. The competitive grants program was new to
BiH and was not well understood. The geographical focus was reasonable since this area was
included based on government request and had been missed in earlier projects due to political
considerations, although it was a long way from the PMUs in Banja Luka and Sarajevo,
respectively.
2.2 Implementation

The overall project implementation was mostly considered satisfactory, although at the Mid Term
Review in May 2006, the implementation progress rating was downgraded to moderately
satisfactory due to the accumulated delays with the implementation of the Market Integration
(Moderately Unsatisfactory) and Commercial Farmer Development (Moderately Satisfactory)
components. The project was then upgraded again to satisfactory in October 2006 since
performance of all components improved and the weakest performing component, the
Competitive Grant Program, was discontinued. While the project suffered from a slow start
initially, in large part due to the relative complexity of its design, its implementation accelerated
once all stakeholders understood their role, and it was almost fully disbursed 6 months before
closing.

Component 1: Market Integration. The Market Integration Component consisted of three
inter-linked and overlapping sub-components: market development, quality improvement, and
cooperative and association development. This component aimed to strengthen supply chains
selected based on initial studies carried out at the outset of the project. The selected sectors were
horticulture, honey production and viniculture in both entities, with the dairy sector added in RS
due to its predominance in some areas. Market integration activities were also supported through
the competitive grant and credit activities of the project in Component 2 and 3. Implementation
proceeded rather slowly due to a combination of the somewhat cumbersome design, the limited
number of viable and cohesive cooperatives and associations, the difficulty of fully engaging with
those that existed, and the lack of readiness by local groups to take advantage of opportunities.

Nevertheless, much effort was made by the PIU and APCU during implementation, with around
16 cooperatives and associations supported through various training and technical assistance
activities; demonstrations and study tours; introduction and development of food quality and
safety standards; provision of equipment such as packaging, processing, testing and analytical
equipment; and marketing support.

The component also did not specifically include development of market information services as
originally foreseen at preparation. This was not implemented in part because little demand
existed form farmers who only had very limited marketable surplus production. Nowadays
market information flows largely informally via cell phone in Bosnia where penetration is around



                                                 8
70% nationwide. In addition, in BiH, as in the rest of the Balkans, retailers are increasingly
contracting directly with farmers groups or large producers. These organizations undertake their
own market research and through contract farming largely control the supply chain for much of
the produce.

Component 2: Private Agribusiness Support. This component aimed to strengthen the
capacity of private agricultural business to absorb primary production and add value to
agriculture products. This first sub-component, Development of Bankable Proposals, primarily
resulted in training a group of economists and financial analysts to provide advice and assistance
to farmers, agro-processors and traders in preparing business plans. Each Participating
Commercial Bank now has a list of trained economists and financial advisors to whom it can refer
agriculture producers and processors for assistance in preparing rural credit application packages.

For the agriculture enterprise credit sub-component, only Nova Bank disbursed loans from the
credit line. Other eligible commercial banks such as Raiffeisen Bank, UniCredit-Zagrebacka and
ProCredit Bank chose not to participate due to: (i) the existence of alternative funding, especially
for banks which have access to long-term funding from abroad; (ii) a lack of interest in adapting
loan processing to the subsidiary loan agreement (e.g. reporting, monitoring, financial
management, environmental safeguards) for what is a relatively small credit line; and (iii)
competition from the various subsidized credit lines from the Government which offer (a) larger
spreads to the commercial banks and (b) lower interest rates to the farmers. For example, the
subsidized credit schemes offered by Trebinje and Bilea municipalities in RS resulted in limited
lending by the participating commercial bank in these areas. These schemes are being financed
through a compensation fund established by Elektroprivreda for the land lost by the local
communities as a result of cascade dam construction. Nevertheless, Nova Banka indicated that
the project's credit line was a useful source of additional long-term funding, since all sub-loans
were for 8-10 years with a grace period of 1-3 years. A total of 116 credits have been made with
average loan size of Euro 45,000 in RS and 26,300 In the Federation. More than 90% of resources
available under the credit line were disbursed at closing. Loans went primarily to wine yard and
wine production, the construction of storage and cooling, fruit orchards, greenhouse construction
and livestock production.

The third sub-component provided technical assistance to participating banks for training staff in
appraising agriculture project proposals and the design of loan terms suited to agriculture and
agribusiness. While initial training was provided, demand and interest was lacking on the part of
the participating bank for additional training programs for its loan officers and staff. This lack of
interest was partially explained by the local financial sector's continuing preference to use
collateral as opposed to expected cash flows as the basis for evaluating agriculture investment
proposals.

Component 3: Commercial Farmer Development. The commercial farmer development
component aimed to support the development of commercial farming through the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation facilities to provide reliable water supplies; introduction of technology
innovations through a competitive grant program; and improved access to working capital by
providing credit lines through Micro-Credit Organizations.

The irrigation sub-component was implemented satisfactorily. The larger schemes in Popovo
Polje, Trebinje and Libuski have been returned to their original state of operation. WUAs were
formed in each location were irrigation was rehabilitated or installed. Several micro schemes for
smaller villages were included on the Dubrava Plateau as well as in the region of Berkovic. These
systems have allowed local residents to improve livestock holdings with greater availability of


                                                 9
water that previously was transported by tanker. In parallel, horticultural production has increased
where previously only fodder production was possible.

Implementation was only moderately satisfactory for the competitive grants program. The grants
were categorized in research and demonstration. Many grants suffered delays partly due to
procedural difficulties during the approval process, documentation, procurement, VAT payments
and other fiduciary issues, as well as deficiencies in the management of the grants by the
beneficiaries and service providers. Some were terminated before completion due to poor
administrative practices by the recipients. The competitive grants were carried out in cooperation
with local farmers, associations, cooperatives and businesses. However, many of the grants were
awarded to and managed by specialists from one or two academic or research institutions in either
entity, indicating that the process was less than competitive. In addition, it appeared there was a
tendency for many competitive grants to be research-driven rather than farmer-driven and thus
not always entirely responsive in addressing the farmers' problems. Overall, since many grants
faced implementation delays and were not delivering the intended results, a sensible decision was
taken to discontinue the competitive grants after the second round. In RS, this was replaced with
a more successful program of on-farm technology demonstrations, but this was not instituted in
the FBiH to allow time for the completion of the ongoing competitive grants.

A Young Scientists grant program was also included in this sub-component, with 13 scientists
each from RS and FBiH participating in courses, mostly at regional institutions for a period of 1
to 2 months. This program was largely successful, with the scientists continuing to work with
their home institutions; about 30% participated in the market integration component, maintained
contacts with their host institution, and continued to provide consultation, additional research and
business cooperation with clients.

While the preparation of documentation and subsidiary agreements with Micro Credit
Organizations took time to develop, once the resources were available, the micro-credit program
performed well. In spite of relatively high interest rates when compared with conventional credit,
the demand for micro credit outstripped supply. To address this demand, at MTR it was decided
to reallocate funds away from the grants program to increase the credit lines for both, SME and
Micro Credit. This is in a large part due to institutions that had proven themselves in the field, had
the expertise in dealing with small clients and understood the needs for profitability in spite of
relatively expensive lending procedures, and the ability to provide proper reporting on the
resources on lent. The three participating Micro-Credit Organizations (Mikrofin, Sunrise, and
EKI) fully disbursed the available project funds and revolved project funds extensively. The
average size of the micro-credit was EUR 1.700 in RS and EUR 3.400 in FBiH. The participating
MCOs maintained high repayment rates with 0% of the portfolio at risk (30 days past due) in the
RS, and only 0.5% in the FBiH. The percentage of micro-credits extended to women amounted
to about 30% in both the FBiH and the RS.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E design envisaged that the PIU/APCU would be responsible for design and
implementation of a single project monitoring, evaluation and reporting system, collection of data,
and provision of progress reports. The CGP and credit components were to be monitored
according to the specific guidelines in the operation manuals. The APCU and PIU both provided
regular status reports which substantially improved in quality over the life of the project.
Implementation of the M&E data collection process was initially weak and uncoordinated. Later
with participation in Bank training of PIU and APCU M&E staff in 2007 reporting against
indicators improved but remained insufficiently systematic and difficult to compare with the


                                                 10
baseline data. The baseline data itself was of questionable quality mainly because it had been
collected without proper segmentation between commercial and subsistence farms, the lack of a
control group, and different methodologies between the two entities. The MTR recognized that
an extensive survey focusing on indicators related to farmers incomes and productivity were too
difficult to capture given the weak baseline and would not be very representative when measured
on a year to year basis. It was therefore agreed to track yields and volumes of produce based on
annual municipal records to estimate project impact on marketable surpluses, income (crop
budgets on sample parcels over the project lifetime) and farm productivity over the five year
period. The ISR already largely reflected these indicators and was thus not modified at that time.

M&E performance picked up substantially following the appointment of an international
specialist; this specialist also assisted with the preparation and design of the final project survey.
Baseline socio-economic data were collected from households at the beginning of project
implementation and an extensive survey was undertaken in the last year of the project to assess
the project outcomes. Because the project had significant delays at inception, and because the
survey was already undertaken in 2008, the actual impact of some of the activities may not have
yet fully developed and thus the impact not adequately reflected.

The data from the largely output oriented indicators in the ISR, and the data from the two
simplified surveys produced at MTR combined with the end of project M&E survey were the
basis for the economic analysis, and to gauge the impact of the project on increased agricultural
production, incomes and productivity.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
The safeguards triggered by this project include OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and
OP/BP 7.5 Projects on International Waterways. The project was classified as category "B", and
was subject to a partial Environmental Assessment (EA) report completed in October 2002.
According to the EA, environmental issues were linked to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
irrigation systems and water use, although direct impacts were likely to be small to insignificant.
The environmental management plan (EMP) in the EA included a monitoring program including
chemical content of water in the vicinity of project interventions; and discharge and water levels
at critical points in the irrigation system.

A Social and Environmental review of the project was undertaken in the final year of the project.
The project allocated US$246,000 for monitoring programs. During irrigation rehabilitation, the
Water Institute from Bijeljina supervised the operation of the contractors to ensure proper
disposal of wastes from the works and also monitoring the soil and water quality during
construction. Water and soil samples were taken from the project sites and continued monitoring
during the project, for example of the Trebisnjica Trebizat Rivers, showed no detrimental
environmental aspects, with significant benefits arising from the removal of stagant water, tipped
town refuse and war damaged materials.

Concerning OP/BP7.50 The Water User Associations are in collaborating with the Water
Agencies (established through the new Law on Waters at the entity level) and share information
with the power companies (Elektroprivredas) based on the minimum flow of Neretva and
Tebisnjica rivers (both being transboundary and flowing from BiH into Croatia).

Additional, potential minor impacts were identified for other project-financed activities, including
the grant awards, which were subject to an environmental checklist completed by the financial
intermediary agency in charge of awarding the grants.


                                                 11
On social Safeguards, it can be concluded that not triggering OP 4.12 was justified and that the
client and beneficiaries undertook due diligence to ensure no displacement of livelihoods and
residence occurred. The main risk associated with the World Bank safeguard policy on
involuntary resettlement was the financial support provided for the rehabilitation and construction
of irrigation and water catchment facilities. Lessons were learned early in the project on the
necessity to receive written consent from land owners when laying pipes across their land. Most
of these land owners were association members, so getting written consent was rarely a problem.
Regarding micro-credit beneficiaries, it appears that all sub-projects involving construction were
realized on their own land and no conflicts occurred. Going forward with future operations,
similar principles to those outlined above for water user associations should be considered for
micro-credit beneficiaries i.e. checking that the applicant has proper title to land and that the land
is unencumbered by disputes or third party uses.

Throughout project implementation financial management was found to be satisfactory both for
the PIU and APCU based on regular supervision by the Bank's financial management specialists,
with the process and procedures as well as records satisfying the Bank's FM requirements. The
previous experience of the PIUs, a unit in each entity covering all agriculture projects and the
presence of staff knowledgeable in World Bank procedures was a contributing factor. Additional
training for staff was provided through a course offered by the World Bank on Financial
Management and Disbursement in 2006. No significant irregularities related to procurement
were found other than delays resulting from the complexity of procurement processes.

A full fiduciary review of the project was undertaken in March of 2010. The review included the
select review of procurement documentation and the inspection of several sites where works had
been executed, the detailed review of procurement procedures, and contracts as well as financial
transactions. While overall the review rated the fiduciary management under the project as
satisfactory, smaller deviations to Bank guidelines were identified. Issue was taken with the
documentation of two small contracts, both of which "post review" which were forwarded for
further investigation. The noted irregularities related to contract documentation primarily while
provision of works, goods and services were generally found to be acceptable.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Overall, the sustainability of many of the activities funded under the project is considered to be
high. The irrigation improvements were carried out with the direct involvement of the users,
where in many cases the project only provided goods while WUAs performed the works. Water
Users Associations have been formed with responsibility for operations and maintenance, and a
reasonable structure of water charges has been instituted by the WUAs for covering of fixed costs.
While collection of invoiced water fees is only 60%, the high degree of involvement of users in
the regular maintenance of systems, as well that large number of systems that have very limited
maintenance needs provide a good basis for sustainability. It is likely that WUAs given the rise
in intensive production will remain viable after the end of the project. There has also been
considerable progress in the development of the farmer cooperatives and associations and most
have operating models that generate cash flow and income ensuring likely continued operations.




                                                 12
Exports remain difficult mainly because the high barrier to entry set by EU requirements for food
safety, traceability and certification. While HACCP training and certification has helped with
building supply chains with retailers operating in the EU, the lack of reference laboratories, and
weak food safety regulation, and an increased demand from local markets has kept exports to a
minimum. This issue of food safety is being substantially addressed with the Bank financed
Agriculture and Rural Development Project, ongoing EU USAID and SIDA efforts to strengthen
Food safety including Plant Health and Phytosanitary capacity, Veterinary and animal health as
well as inspection services. The focus of ARDP on building institutional capacity of the
ministries and institutions serving the agricultural sector will further improve competitiveness and
regain market share of locally produced food stuff and goods.

The ongoing ARDP support to the State Food Safety Agency has to date supported EU legislation
towards the adoption of the EU hygiene package, introduction of risk based inspections which is a
crucial requirement to access EU markets, regulation concerning food labeling and contents.
Support to the Plant Health Agency has led to new seed legislation and regulation for import of
plant and plant material, trade of agrochemicals, as well as the eventual introduction of plant
passports. The country is presently identifying reference laboratories for both food stuff and
plant material. Support to the State Veterinary Agency has led to the development of a livestock
registry that will also help improve tracking of livestock movement and improve management of
disease and zoonose tracking.

The SME credit activity is presently maintained as a revolving fund at the respective entity
Ministry of Agriculture, with eventual transfer to the respective entity owned development banks.
Overall, credit for agricultural enterprises has become easier to come by, in part also because the
banking sector has gone through significant reforms. This has brought in a number of foreign
banks who have experience with lending in the ag sector. Micro credit has expanded significantly
and small farmers requiring seasonal lending for their crops are being recognized as reliable
borrowers. Micro credit institutions that were no previously interested in such lending have
begun to lend to small crop producers agriculture

A number of the young scientists under the program have been hired by respective entity
ministries, as well as MOFTER's Rural Development office. They are also working in private
trade and industry and farmers organizations.

In spite of serious delays with the grants, most were completed. The results are mixed but the
experience including the process and the outputs have been assembled on CD for wider
dissemination to participating beneficiaries, and institutions, but also wider dissemination within
government. Lessons from grant process will be reflected in future grant programs, including
grant procedures being prepared for the ARDP.

An encouraging evolution is the agricultural trade deficit as a share of GDP in Bosnia that has
diminished from around 12% in 2002 down to some 5.4% in 2009 reflecting growing import
substitution from greater agricultural productivity.

Recently BiH has requested the Bank for further support for the irrigation sector based on
experiences gained as part of implementing SSCADP. An independent report reviewing the
activities under the sector acknowledges the success of the irrigation activities undertaken under
the project. Future activities in the sector will need particular attention to institutional capacity as
it relates to the definition of the role of the various governmental levels in the management of the
water resources in the country. This will include the definition of user payments and cost sharing



                                                  13
arrangements between all stakeholders (WUAs, Municipalities, cantons, Entities and State)
necessary to ensure the long term sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sector in Bosnia

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The overall PDO as approved in the PAD, which aims to develop private, market integrated
commercial agriculture in selected low income, high potential areas of southern Bosnia and
Herzegovina, was relevant and realistic. Some parts of the region (Mostar, Czaplijna, andPopovo
Polje area) were important and traditional producer of vegetables and fruit including grapes for
regional markets, with demand increasing for high quality products as a result of increasing
stability after the conflict and restoration of the tourist industry on the Adriatic coast. Honey and
dairy production also provided good opportunities, especially for smaller holdings that had very
limited amounts of land. Local agricultural and horticultural production was beginning to
respond, but there was a concern that these market opportunities would be lost due to slow
development and continuing issues in the sector in the aftermath of the conflict.

The project activities, which focused on increased access to credit, rehabilitation of irrigation
systems most of which had not been maintained for some years, development of commercially-
based farmer cooperatives and associations, and introduction and demonstration of improved
technologies, addressed the main constraints for farmer. The activities would stimulate the sector
in the region and indeed, consumption of local produce has significantly increased in Bosnia.
The proposed implementation methodology working through a project management unit in each
entity was also realistic. However, as mentioned previously the structure of the components was
complex and rather cumbersome.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Progress was made towards achieving the relatively modest objective to develop private, market
integrated commercial agriculture in the project areas. The project has kindled several links
connecting farmers/producers to markets, in honey, wine, horticulture, and dairy, and the links are
continuing to develop. The project activities supported this objective through various market
integration activities, introduction of quality standards (Manuals for Good Beekeeping Practices,
Introduction of Global GAP, technology for production packaging and handling) and commercial
development through credit and irrigation activities. A number of new technologies and business
practices were introduced and several FOs and larger producers now have export contracts for
honey, potato, and horticultural produce into the European market.

Not all activities were successfully implemented, such as the competitive grants. Much of the
research was driven more by the contracted institution or researcher rather than based on farmer
demand. This led to projects in some case that while beneficial scientifically, were not deemed
attractive to the small farmers in the region. However even with grants the situation was mixed,
organic insect management in greenhouses for instance was quite quickly adopted by a number of
producers and association after its demonstration.

Access to credit, combined with rehabilitation of irrigation systems, and demonstrations have
provided the means for farmers and producers to invest in the sector and grow production and



                                                 14
marketable surpluses. Rehabilitated irrigation systems report an increase in cultivated lands from
30% to over 60%, while horticultural production is up 30%. The project has also improved
quality standards (GAP/HACCP). In total some seven enterprises had begun HACCP certification
during the project with several of them accredited by project end, especially in the wine sector.
Despite considerable progress in the development of some FOs, they remain vulnerable and a few
might not succeed. Nevertheless, there has been increased farmer attention to the quality of
production inputs and outputs, and awareness and effort to build linkages with market aggregators
and higher value markets, including supermarkets.

The competitive grants were carried out in cooperation with local farmers, associations,
cooperatives and businesses. However, most of the grants were awarded to and managed by
specialists from one or two academic or research institutions, indicating that the process was less
than competitive as indicated during earlier supervision missions. In addition, it appeared there
was a tendency for many competitive grants to be research-driven rather than farmer-driven and
thus not always entirely responsive in addressing the farmers' problems. Many grants also
suffered delays partly due to procedural difficulties during the approval process, documentation,
procurement, VAT payments and other fiduciary issues, as well as deficiencies in the
management of the grants by the beneficiaries and service providers. Overall, since many grants
faced implementation delays and were not delivering the intended results, a sensible decision was
taken to discontinue the competitive grants after the second round. Despite these problems, there
are useful results from some of the competitive grants that are more widely disseminated through
leaflets and CDs made available to stakeholders.

The Young Scientists grant program is considered to have been largely successful. The scientists
have continued to work with their home institutions, and about 30% have participated in the
market integration component, maintained contacts with their host institution, and continued to
provide consultation, additional research and business cooperation with clients.

The credit subcomponent has substantially helped in increasing Bank and MCO willingness to
lend to the agricultural sector. This is reflected in a fourfold increase of the portfolio of Nova
bank in the Agricultural sector. Similarly, MCOs now deal with small farmers readily and these
prove to be one of the most reliable segments of borrowers to make timely repayment of credits.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
At appraisal, an analysis was done on the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project. A new
financial and economic analysis was done at the end of the project based on the data obtained
from the project impact survey. The results of the survey are complex and in terms of impact on
income the study is inconclusive particularly since the baseline survey reports household incomes
higher at project inception than at Project closing, in spite of an overall increase in production
levels and investments. The team has two main explanations for this situation, including too
short a time period from the date of the investment to the date of impact assessment, and the lack
of data from the baseline study as to which households had been interviewed at project inception
meaning that the household data is not directly comparable.

The economic analysis therefore focuses mainly on the measured increase in agricultural surplus
production resulting from project activities in irrigation, livestock production and horticulture.

At appraisal, the analysis estimated the likely financial and economic returns for a range of
agriculture enterprises and farm households likely to benefit from the investments in agricultural


                                                15
enterprises and development and rehabilitation of irrigated land. Benefits were estimated by
using series of agriculture enterprise models and farm production models. The enterprise models
demonstrated likely agricultural investments using the enterprise credit facility. While farm
production models illustrated anticipated benefits from improved water delivery and use of
micro-credit facility. The benefits were then separately estimated for each entity. The results of
the analysis predicted that the project will generate a financial rate of return (FIRR) of 33.4% and
the same rate of economic return.

The ICR recalculated the returns to the project through updating the assumptions and applying the
actual benefits and costs received by the project farmers. Results of the ICR economic and
financial analysis shows that the overall EIRR for the Small Scale Commercial Agriculture
Development Project reaches 34.5% (ENPV=USD 6.4 million). Although the EIRR demonstrates
the higher than the appraisal value, it should be noted that the financial returns to the overall
project show lower results than expected, i.e. a FIRR of 19%. These stem mainly from the
following factors: (i) two years of project delay that resulted in the three years of gap between
project rehabilitation completion and benefit accumulation and (ii) the appraisal analysis adopted
a bit optimistic assumption with regard the replacement of large areas of vineyard and orchard;
and (iii) number of benefits including the financial returns to the agribusiness enterprises were
excluded from the analysis due to the lack of information; (iv) replacement of vineyard and
orchard occurred mainly in 2006-2008 and at the time of the ICR analysis the plants did not reach
the full maturity; consequently, the benefits were not included in the analysis; (v) benefits to 750
hectares of land was excluded from the ICR analysis as the benefits accumulation starts beyond
the project period; and (vi) the analysis excluded returns to the project activities targeting
profitability improvements.

Once the new orchards and vineyards reaches the full maturity ages, the investments in
replacement of the plants are expected to generate an incremental annual net benefits from USD
1,464 for peach and to USD 9,134 for apple production. The investment in the greenhouse
vegetable production produces the incremental net benefit of USD 11,183, while returns to
investment in dairy farm and beekeeping are estimated at USD 6,838 and USD 2,199 respectively.
The results of the typical farm households' analyses demonstrate that the incremental gross
margin (average for entire project period) ranges from USD 171 for the farm specialized in maize
and alfa-alfa to USD 14,902 for the farm that partially replaces the existing wines with improved
varieties and cultivates cash crops to finance the investments.

As discussed above, it is too early to fully document project impact on agricultural performance.
However, the ICR analysis shows that the project is likely to reach its development objectives.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. While the survey results do not clearly demonstrate increased
income for farmers, surplus agricultural production has been on the increase. Beneficiary
respondents, as well as government officials at all levels including municipalities, cantons and
entity have praised the project and its achievements.

Given the above, and based on the timely completion of project implementation, the overall
outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above) The project has contributed
to improve commercial links between entities and the understanding that issues at regional level


                                                16
needed a coordinated approach regardless on which side of the entity boundary farmers were
residing. The bee feed cake produced in Trebinije (RS) is sold throughout the Western
Herzegovina region including the Federation. The Herzegovina wine route brings tourists from
Dubrovnik (Croatia) to visit Trebinje in the RS and Mostar in the Federation. With tourism
increased trade and demand for local produce has been growing.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project did not have a poverty focus, rather working with the more commercially minded and
progressive farmers and processors. Given the objective, the project focused on improving
economic efficiency rather than equity because of the essential need to revitalize economic
activities in the agricultural sector. Nevertheless, activities such as improved irrigation services
and water supply, and development of market outlets for produce such as milk, benefited all
households in project rural areas, and were thus linked to poverty reduction. The respondents in
the Project closing survey report a 13% increase in use of labor, and a 23% increase use in
machinery. It needs to be noted that given that wages (including social taxes) in Bosnia are
relatively high, even small commercial farmers often opt for additional machinery and family
labor rather than the employment of farm labor to increase their production. Similarly, the project
did not have a specific gender focus in its objectives, but roughly one-third of the project
beneficiaries were women. Given the prominent role of agriculture in economic production, the
project had an inherent social benefit for a population that relies primarily on subsistence farming
for survival. Thus, the fact that the project funded activities that benefited these farmers, who are
predominantly poor, had an inherent social benefit. More broadly, some benefits may have
accrued from joint activities with RS and FBiH, although probably unquantifiable.

These observations have been mainly drawn from a Social Development Review undertaken in
September 2009 reviewing the project from a social safeguards angle but also in regards of
impacts based on field observations and exchanges with beneficiaries and stakeholders.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The project was not a project designed to build capacity of government institutions. Nevertheless,
the project built capacity in WUAs, Banks, and in cooperatives and associations, as well as in a
group of young scientists. The Institutional strengthening that would support exports and trade are
largely addressed under the ARDP dealing with the state agencies for food safety, plant health
and Veterinary services.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The project had the unintended impact of leading farmers and farmer groups to begin working
together on supporting the reintegration across ethnic lines. Trade between Lubuski and Trebinje
has grown thanks to the project support to the associations of bee keepers and wine associations.
A wine route has been established serving main tourists arriving from Dubrovnik, Croatia that
covers the Herzegovina region of RS and Federation in territory that was heavily affected by the
war and ethnic divisions remain deep.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The project benefited from both a stakeholder survey as well as a stakeholder workshop that was
held when most activities under the project had been completed in May of 2008. The stakeholder
workshop was held in Trebinje in presence for representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture of
both entities, project stakeholders, and beneficiaries. The feedback from the various project
stakeholder meeting was overwhelmingly positive. The project design has been to a large extent


                                                 17
replicated under a similar project supporting commercial agriculture and SMEs presently
financed through IFAD.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Prospects for continuing growth is bright, and IFAD is financing continuation of a rural
development grants program. The expected pre-IPARD Bank-supported Rural Development
Grant program supported by the Agriculture and Rural Development Project (P101213) was
supposed to be launched in 2009, but disagreements by Entities on the structure of the future
IPARD Paying Agency have stalled progress.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project design was based on the experience gained from previous projects in BiH and other
countries in the region, was relevant to the issues facing the region and the agriculture sector at
the time, and satisfactorily involved the participation of government and stakeholders. The
selection of activities was supported by marketing studies and analyses of value chains which
resulted in identification of the fruit and vegetable, honey, milk and meat, and wine sectors as
main project foci. However, the design of the components was complex, involving many
overlapping components and activities, particularly in the market integration component, that
made it difficult for the project units in each entity to manage and focus their activities, at least at
the outset. This required changes in the structure and design of the project management based on
more simple subject matter approaches. For these reasons, the Bank's performance is rated
moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out regularly
on a semi-annual basis and issues identified and followed up in a timely manner. The supervision
teams included technical expertise primarily covering the irrigation, credit and market integration
activities, and appropriate modifications were suggested as needed, for example when it became
clear that the competitive grants program was not moving forward satisfactorily. The supervision
team adequately addressed M&E, and was pro-active in working with the implementation
agencies to improve the process, although issues remained throughout the project. An
environmental specialist was fielded, albeit rather late in the process. Fiduciary specialists
regularly reviewed procedures and compliance with financial management and procurement
requirements as part of the supervision process, and supported training programs as needed. As a
result, there were few issues with fiduciary or safeguard policies. Overall, the activities as
outlined in the PAD were generally completed, reflecting a satisfactory quality of supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                                  18
Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

e) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was implemented during a time of transition in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both in the
aftermath of the conflict and during a period of increasing market focus in the economy,
including the agriculture sector. At the state government level, constraints were the difficulty of
moving rapidly on trade liberalization, introduction of SPS legislation and despite having a
market oriented agricultural development strategy prior to project effectiveness. However, the
availability of counterpart funding was not a constraint. At the entity level, the project was
largely managed as two projects but with some joint contracting of service providers. Given that
at project design little or no capacity existed at the state level for agriculture this was the only
option. In spite of these constraints and political issues between the entities, the project was
generally implemented satisfactorily and in a timely fashion, except for delays in disbursement
caused by slow procurement, particularly regarding administration of imports, near the closing
date.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

During the course of the project, the political environment was one of some difficulty, with
conflicting visions of the shape and role of the agricultural sector and related institutions. In
addition, the two Project Management Units in the entities, the PIU and APCU, were located a
long way from the project area. This issue was addressed by opening local offices in each entity,
which made successful implementation possible. There was also considerable commitment and
good between the two PMUs which allowed for follow-up and interaction between the
implementers and relevant staff. This went so far as to combine the procurement for certain
services by one PMU to be used by both. While this was criticized by the procurement review, it
greatly improved efficiency in acquiring services and demonstrates the cooperation between the
PIU and APCU. Some deficiencies were observed in the M&E, particularly during the early parts
of the project, and in reporting. However M&E and reporting considerably improved towards the
end of the project. Overall, the project was generally implemented in a timely fashion, which
enabled the project to be completed on schedule. Thus, the implementing agency's performance
is rated as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
Although Ministers changed several times during the period of implementation, there was
continuous support at the government levels for the project and its objectives. The project
experience and some of the methodology has been readily adopted and integrated in other donor
programs.
Given the above, overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)


                                                19
Project design. The project provides the lesson that complex designs, especially those with many
overlapping activities, are more difficult to understand and manage, and measure. Although the
design attempted to address the outcomes  i.e. market integration, commercial farm development,
and agribusiness development - a simpler approach may have been to base it on subject matter
topics, i.e. irrigation, credit, support to cooperatives and associations, and technology
improvement of which outcomes could have been more readily measured and impacts more
readily attributed to the project.

Competitive Grants. Many of the grants were awarded to and managed by specialists from one or
two academic or research institutions, indicating that the process was less than competitive. In
addition, there was a tendency for many grants to be research-driven rather than farmer-driven
and thus not always entirely responsive in addressing the farmers' problems. An alternative
approach is to provide the grants directly to the users, i.e. farmers or associations, with the
specialists acting in the role of service providers, and at the same time, widening the eligible
service providers to include private sector specialists. This approach can increase the likelihood
of relevant activities being proposed and more ready adoption of the results by farmers.

Irrigation / Water User Associations. There is generally a greater cohesiveness of WUAs
operating smaller irrigation systems because farmers know each other within the system and
understand their interdependence on the functioning of the system. Larger systems provide
greater economies of scale from an engineering perspective thus lowering costs per ha. However,
the greater cohesiveness in small systems, as observed under SSCAD from a detailed review of
water fee collection (typically around 90% collection in micro systems) provide better
perspective for sustainability of these smaller systems.

Credit. The development of a credit system geared to agricultural producers is difficult when a
subsidized interest program is also in operation, and makes it difficult to encourage modifications
in operational practices by banks and MFIs. In addition, even with training in improved business
modeling, and cash flow based loan approval, Banks remain fundamentally conservative and like
to see their lending backed by hard physical assets (collateral). This is particularly the case where
the Banking system used to be composed of large Banks lending to state farms and Kombinats
that had an implicit backing from the state. Thus, access to credit for asset poor small farmers
remains challenging. While the limited amount to SMEs sub-lending has been exhausted, it
would seem that the conservative attitude of commercial Banks only changes along with an
improved overall business climate where liquidity is improved, and the perceived risk of default
is decreased, and borrowers have a minimum size that makes them credible as borrowers. At the
same time though, demand for simplified application procedures for small farmers is great, as
demonstrated by the high demand for micro-credits, and current high repayments would also
advocate that small farmers with a diversified production are a much lower risk than commercial
Banks estimate.

Cooperatives and Associations. The project clearly showed that formation and development of
cooperatives and associations is a long-term undertaking requiring continuing efforts, often
longer than the project period. Further, there is no guarantee that efforts will result in viable
institutions. During the SSCAD, some farmer organizations demonstrated considerable progress
and look viable  but perhaps numbering only four  the two wine producers associations, and the
honey and dairy associations in RS. All others remain vulnerable and a few are likely not to
succeed. This seems to confirm the long learned lessons that the formation of such groups has to
be organic and bottom up, ideally undertaken by farmers independently already before the project
support becomes available. The lack of trust among farmers especially those emerging from the


                                                 20
former socialist model, where cooperation was promoted as the solution to all ills, combined
with the inherent challenges of governance that member owned businesses face, make the
creation of sustainable FOs very difficult.

Supply chains. A lot of effort was put into identifying supply chains at the outset of the project 
the wine, horticulture, honey and dairy sectors were eventually selected. These fairly broad
sectors were clearly significant in the area based on observation, but not all activities and
institutional developments were successful. However, other activities were eventually included,
such as beans, poultry, and the outcomes reflect the difficulty of picking winners. Fundamentally,
the lesson is that supply chains are organic, and form largely by themselves based on individual
initiatives from farmers and traders. Government can facilitate these links by ensuring that
knowledge is accessible to producers, infrastructure is available for transport and collection of
produce, credit is available for financing of production/processing and trade, and rules and
regulations are clear with credible institutions to enforce them. In the end it seems that the
business climate has to be ready for competitive and fair development of supply chains to develop
and grow as can increasingly be observed in the project areas.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Both entity Ministries and the PIU and APCU reviewed the concluded ICR and agreed with its
content. Earlier drafts had been discussed with both implementing agencies and the Bank was
formally informed that there were no further comments to the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                              Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
         Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                      millions)
MARKET INTEGRATION                     1.43                1.14                   79
PRIVATE AGRIBUSINESS                   4.05                3.38                   83
COMMERCIAL FARMERS                     6.20                6.50                   105
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                       1.70                1.87                   110
SUPPORT


            Total Baseline Cost               13.38                -
                                               0.39                -
                                               0.36                -
            Total Project Costs               14.13               14.66           104
     Total Financing Required                 12.00               12.90           107



(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing       (USD        (USD      Appraisal
                                                           millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                 -           -
International Development
                                                        12.00       12.90            107
Association (IDA)
Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
                                                        2.13        1.76                83
Borrowing Country




                                                22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Market Integration
This component aims to strengthen supply chains selected based on initial studies carried out at
the outset of the project. The selected sectors were horticulture, honey production and viniculture
in both entities, with the dairy sector added in RS due to its predominance in some areas. The
component consists of three inter-linked and overlapping sub-components: market development,
quality improvement, and cooperative and association development. Market integration activities
are also supported through the competitive grant and credit components of the project.

Sub-Component A: Market Development

This sub-component aimed to improve provision of market information to all participants in the
value chain, through market studies and analyses, and through training of producers, processors,
traders and officials in appropriate topics such as in marketing and management. Training and
technical assistance, both local and international, have focused on these topics as well as on
business planning and quality improvement. Other support has been provided for participation in
fairs and exhibitions, development of promotion materials, preparation of strategic plans, and
registration of producers. The training, technical assistance and other support have been provided
primarily for individuals, many of whom are members of the cooperatives and associations
supported by the project, as well as cooperative and association managements. Various actors in
the supply chain have also been supported through the provision of and participation in the
competitive grant program.

In the wine sector in the RS, the main activities included registration of 25 new wine cellars with
a capacity of 1 million liters. Through a local consultancy, a draft marketing strategy for the RS
wine sector was developed, a catalogue of all registered wineries prepared, a web page for the
Trebinje Wine Producers Association designed (www.vinos.ba) and other promotional material
printed. Producers in both entities participated in the study tours to Istria (Croatia), Hungary,
Italy and France covering marketing and promotion of wine, quality standards, production
technology and branding and appellation control. These tours also familiarized participants with
links with tourism development, and linking existing hospitality infrastructure in the region in the
wine sector. The most recent, to Bordeaux, included a total of 45 members from the
associations from both entities as representatives from the Project Units, Ministry of Agriculture,
other institutions and newspapers. The earlier study tour to Istria resulted in establishment of a
joint tourist wine route to promote and advertise different wineries between the two entities.
Local training has focused on supply chain development, HACCP, wine testing and tasting, and
wine production technology, including laboratory testing with the support of local and
international expertise. A total of around 60 producers from RS and a similar number from FBiH
participated in this training. These producers have also provided input in the drafting of a wine
legislation that was recently promulgated by the State level Food Safety Agency of BiH. The
project also supported participation in around 8 or 9 different fairs and exhibitions. In 2008, for
example, producers attended "Mediterranean Days" in Trebinje; the Wine Fair in Sarajevo; and
the Festival of Wine, Cheese and Ham in Ljubuski, attended by producers from both entities with
accompanying media coverage and featuring in the TV program "Tourism plus".

In the fruit and vegetable sector, project training activities focused on organization of supply
chains, GAP, and greenhouse production. An exchange with Wageningen University in the
Netherlands on these topics took place with participants including representatives from several
cooperatives, local producers and companies from both entities. Other study tours for FBiH


                                                23
producers were carried out to Israel on international standards for fruit and vegetable production
and processing and to Romania on sorting and packing, marketing and cooperative development.
In FBiH, cooperatives and companies were supported on setting up collection centers and on the
development of a sorting facility. Twenty RS producers went to Bjieljina, an intensive vegetable
area, focusing on paprika, tomato, and watermelon production technology and marketing. In RS,
the focus has been on demonstration and advisory activities on plant protection, plant nutrition,
production of vegetables in plastic houses, indigenous poljak bean production, and organization
of machinery rings. The project introduced new pollination technology in green house as well as
biological pest management through the research grants program. Some 24 trainings were held in
2007 and 22 in 2008 with about 460 participants. Overall, a number of companies and
cooperatives participating in these exchanges and training programs have started to develop
partnerships and joint venture investments: these include AgroS, the large cold storage in
Berkovii, RS; Vegi Commerce in FBiH who have a program with Dutch partners to double
green house capacity from 2000 to 4000m2 and produce for export to Western Europe; and
AgroS, Paprika, Plastenik and Hladnjaca (cool store) in RS who have a program with German
investors to develop the vegetable production chain from nursery seedlings and greenhouse
production to storage and processing. This group has invested in more than 200 plastic
greenhouses of 50-200 m2 with paprika production covering 30,000 m2, planned nursery
development, attended Sarajevo market, made contacts with supermarket chain in Croatia, and
started construction of a 2,000 t cool store.

In the honey sector, training has focused on Good Beekeeping Practices, eco-production and
disease and pest prevention. A Good Beekeeping Manual was developed and published and
made available to farmers to help them identify disease, treatment and proper handling of
beehives. Study tours have taken place to Czech Republic and the Netherlands on bee-keeping
technology and organization of supply chains. Producers from both entities have also participated
in at least 8 fairs and exhibitions. Most activities have been through the cooperatives in each
entity, with equipment provided for production of bee-cakes and wax pressing in RS and under
procurement for honey processing in FBiH (see component 1.C).

In the RS dairy sector, activities focused on strengthening associations (see component 1.C) and
setting up collection stations. Support was provided for the establishment of 10 collection
stations with 10 lacto-freezers and 80 milk collectors, with 513,427 liters of milk collected in
2008. In total, there are now 24 lacto-freezers installed in the project area. Training has also
been provided in milk quality, animal reproduction, artificial insemination and feed production.
A total of around 160 livestock producers have participated. A study tour was carried out to
Slovenia with 20 participants on feeding and nutrition, cheese production and milk quality control.
The project also supported attendance at two fairs in Novi Sad.

Sub-Component B: Quality Improvement

This sub-component aims to assist in the development of quality specifications and food safety
consistent with market opportunities and EU regulations. The project has focused on training and
technical assistance and on the provision of testing and analytical equipment where needed.

For the horticulture sector, the project has provided substantial training in 2006/7 in Good
Agricultural Practices (GAP) for private fruit and vegetable producers and processors in both
FBiH and RS. The initial training was provided by an international consultant and included a
series of modules for a total of about 60 participants in both entities. A GAP manual was
prepared and provided to participants. Training was also provided in the Netherlands for local
specialists to enable them to become certified inspectors. Additional training was provided


                                               24
through the USAID LAMP project in E Herzegovina. The training has led to two EUREPGAP
certifications (Vegi Commerce and Plantaze) in W Herzegovina. Overall, while few producers
and processors have yet been GAP certified, the program has raised producer and processor
awareness of the factors driving quality fruit and vegetable production

A training program was also instituted in Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP).
In the FBiH, five members of the Wine Association have HACCP certification and two additional
wineries are in process. The wholesale market in Capljina also attended the training program, but
has not moved forward with the process of certification. In RS, the Padeni dairy factory in Bilea
and the winery have obtained HACCP certification, while two of the other larger wine producers
are at the final stage of certification.

The Padeni dairy in RS is actively working with its suppliers, including members of the Bilea
Farmer's Association supported by the project, to improve the quality of the milk received
through its collection centers. The project provided a local consultant to provide training in
mastitis prevention and milking hygiene, and to monitor milk quality. Based on somatic cell
count, progress has been observed through an increase in E class from 30% to 70% and a
reduction in IV class from 30% to 13% of the samples tested. The project has also supported
analyses of animal feed samples in RS. Support has also been provided for the testing of animal
fodder by introducing different variety of grasses and legumes to improve feeding habits for milk
producers in RS.

For the bee-keeping sector, the project has provided training primarily aimed at honey quality and
introduction of Good Beekeeping Practices (GBP), with some 15 association members
participating in RS and another 10 in the FBiH. A manual on this topic was also developed
through the project. A systematic survey of 1,049 producers with around 40,000 hives has also
been carried out in RS. In FBiH, laboratory equipment for honey quality control has been
installed by the Radilica bee-keepers cooperative in refurbished premises in Ljubuski, and
training provided for the laboratory technician in its use. Samples of bee-cakes produced by
Zalfija Cooperative in RS are also taken periodically for microbiological testing to ensure quality
standard requirements and to allow export of its products. The analysis was made four times in
2008 with negative results for the presence of American Foulbrood, salmonella, clostridia, total
number of bacteria, and yeasts and moulds. One microscope and pH meter were also procured
for honey quality control, which will be put in use when the Zalfija Cooperative starts honey
collection.

In the wine sector, testing and analysis has been supported through the provision of basic
laboratory equipment installed in the facilities of the hydroelectric power plant, Trebisnjic
Elektroprivreda, and through wine tasting and organoleptic testing at fairs and exhibitions
attended by wine producers.

Sub-Component C: Cooperative and Association Development

The sub-component aims to strengthen and develop existing and new farmer groups, associations
and cooperatives to assist small farmers participate in high-quality markets. The project has
focused on technical assistance and training on business planning and commercialization of their
operations. The project has also encouraged partnerships with other donors and programs (such as
UCODEP, GTZ, IFAD) providing similar assistance to ensure that timely advisory services
remain available to these Farmer Organizations (FOs).




                                                 25
In the wine sector in FBiH, activities have focused on strengthening the existing Herzegovina
Winemakers Association in Citluk, which now has about 39 members and represents about 60%
of the wine production in W Herzegovina. In addition to training and technical assistance, project
support included the provision of office equipment for this Association. In RS, the project has
focused on the development of the Wine Makers and Growers Association (VINOS) in
Trebinje, which now has around 65 members. Support has been provided for members to register
new cellars, visit fairs and exhibitions, access information on subsidy programs and opportunities
for cooperation with other organisations, as weel as to improve wine quality in cooperation with
the laboratory at the hydroelectric station. Both of these Associations now appear to be firmly
established. They have taken an active role in commenting on the new State wine law and are
involved in the discussions and drafting of accompanying regulations to be established at the
entity level. A marketing strategy, including the development of promotional material, has been
completed for the Trebinje Wine Association, which also established a website. The more
established producers of the Herzegovina Winemakers Association in Citluk did not access this
support. Jointly, the associations are seeking project support for developing geographical
indications for their wines. In the RS, two wineries (Vukoje and Andjelic) and in the FBIH, five
wineries (plus two more) received project support for HACCP training and certification.
Association members participated in study tours, HACCP and other training, and have
participated in a number of fairs as indicated in components 1.A and 1.B.

In the honey sector, the focus in the RS has been on the development of the Zalfija honey
cooperative in Trebinje. Since 2006, the cooperative has shown steadily-increasing revenue
despite poor honey harvests in 2007 and 2008, primarily from the manufacture and sale of bee-
cakes and wax. Zalfija has also developed linkages with a Norwegian partner, Honing Centralen,
and with Italian partners. Due to limited space, the RS Government has provided land for
constructing a facility (4,000 m2) to the Zalfija and Petrovo Polje cooperatives for joint use. The
Italian partners (SEENET organization) have also provided funds (KM 150.000) for co-financing
construction, while the project is co-financing the ongoing design works. The cooperative has 6
full-time employees and up to 10 seasonal workers. The number of cooperative members is 61,
who have paid an agreed amount of KM 400. Zalfija has also purchased a small honey packaging
line with support from UCODEP, an Italian organization. In the FBiH, the Radilica honey
producers' cooperative is the main focus of activities, although the Kadulja honey Union was
also supported. The Radilica cooperative is aiming to become a regional service provider for
honey testing and packaging. Accordingly, the project has supported the cooperative with new
honey testing laboratory equipment that will help improve the quality of packaged honey.

Four livestock associations have received support in RS. The Bilea Farmer's Association now
has 82 members after starting with 30. The main activities are organization of milk collection and
maintenance of 10 collection points with lacto-freezers provided by the project. Strong
cooperation has been established between the Association and the Paeni dairy in the collection
of milk and improvement of milk hygiene and quality. The Association has also been active in
supporting farmers to apply for the MAFWM subsidy program, with 234 applications submitted
for breeding heifers and sheep. It is anticipated that around KM 150,000 KM of subsidy funds
will be received, with 10% of it paid to the Association for its services. The Association intends
to use these funds to invest in financing their activities, reconstruction of livestock market, and
initiating a fodder mixing factory. The project is also working with the Dabar Meat and Milk
Producers Association in Berkovii which was established in 2002 and has 51 members. The
Association was supported by IFAD through the provision of technical assistance. The project
provided a roller-baler and tractor for fodder preparation (haylage and silage), with the
International Orthodox Christian Charity (IOCC) and the municipality of Berkovii also
providing co-financing, while members bought a rotary mower from their own funds. The project


                                                26
has also provided technical assistance for organizing and developing fee structures and record
keeping mechanisms for this equipment. The Pig Farmers Association of Eastern Herzegovina
was registered in 2008 with a focus on artificial insemination of pigs and technical assistance
provided by the project. The association is located in Bilea with members from all four
municipalities. The project provided laboratory equipment for semen testing at a reproduction
centre located in Ljubinje with distribution points in Trebinje, Bileca and Gacko. The centre is
housed in the facilities of a demonstration farmer and has adequate space and is in good condition.
Unfortunately, due to financial problems, the Agency for Animal Selection was not able to
procure boars in 2008 although the MAFWM may support this activity in 2009. Two members of
the Sloga Cooperative participated in a study tour to Slovenia and have refurbished a building
using their own funds for installation of cheese-making equipment. The project tendered for
cheese-making equipment, which proved very expensive, and it is now proposed to purchase
machinery for forage production.

In the vegetable sector, the main focus in FBiH has been on the development of the Matica
producer's cooperative in Capljina, who also have received support from a Swiss-funded
program managed by GTZ. The cooperative has rented a stall and cool storage at the Caplijna
wholesale market and sold produce throughout the 2008 season. Training has been provided for
the cooperative management and for members. The project is procuring sorting and packaging
equipment, which is now in customs, with members financing 30% of the equipment value.
Other activities have been carried out with the Dubrave Cooperative to help establish out-
grower arrangements with small-scale producers for the supply of fruit and vegetables and the
Sunce Cooperative, both of which also attended study tours and participated in training activities.
However, there was little progress in setting up collection centers for grading and sorting of
vegetables from individual producers. In RS, the Petrovo Polje Cooperative has initiated the
production of Poljak bean seed material and rental of farm machinery for its member, with
training, technical assistance and some equipment provided through the project. The cooperative
recently participated in the "Terra Madre" fair in Italy where various regional products were
presented to disseminate and promote locally grown and autochtonous products. The cooperative
plans to apply for geographic certification for the Poljak bean. Other project support has been
provided to the Stela cooperative in Ljubinje, whose members have around 20 ha of cherry
orchard. Support included business plan development, with farm mechanization under
consideration. This cooperative has made a cooperation agreement with a storage company for
the first season in 2009. The Association of Fruit and Vegetable Producers of Eastern
Herzegovina received project support to improve operations, but had no any significant activities
in 2008 with members preferring to continue operating individually. The Lastva cooperative in
RS initiated works on rehabilitation of buildings such as a rural restaurant with support from
MAFWM rural development grant funds. The project provided additional support through the
development of a detailed business plan for tourism activities. However, debts to the former
cooperative workers made operations difficult and the cooperative has stopped working.

Despite considerable progress in the development of some FOs, others remain vulnerable and a
few are at risk of not succeeding. Continuous efforts are required to support FOs management to
strengthen their development as business organizations. Management and members need to
understand the need for profitable business models, and active membership participation in
decision making, especially to cover the operating costs generated from additional investments.
The principles of independent management, equal membership and voting rights, and the
indivisibility of cooperative assets are central to successful cooperative development. There are
still concerns regarding potential conflicts of interest stemming from member managers.
However, the increased farmer attention to the quality of inputs and outputs, and awareness and



                                               27
effort to build linkages with market aggregators and higher value markets, including
supermarkets, is encouraging.

Component 2: Private Agribusiness Support

Sub-Component A: Development of Bankable Proposals

This sub-component has been completed satisfactorily. Each Participating Commercial Bank
(PCB) now has a list of trained economists and financial advisors to whom it can refer agriculture
producers and processors for assistance in preparing rural credit application packages. The extent
that this has happened is unclear


Sub-Component B: Rural Enterprise Credit

Overall performance under this sub-component was satisfactory. At project closing a total of 116
credits been approved by the participating commercial bank for a total amount of Euro 2.85 1
million on-lent at the prevailing currency exchange rate of the time of disbursement.

                     Credits                    No.     Total on-        RS         FBiH
                                                          lent
                     Total Credits              116     2,850,000    1,030,000 1,825,000
                     Applications received      133                      46          87
                     Credits approved           116                      46          70
                     Average Loan size                                 45055       26300

Various credit beneficiaries in FBiH (Caplijna, and Ljubuski) and in the RS (Bilea, Trebinje, and
Ljubinje) were visited to for the assessment of the credit line's contribution to the project
development objectives. The Mission found that investments were generally made in accordance
with the originally intended purposes and that the conclusions of the preliminary assessment
conducted during the previous mission still hold. Investments supported under the project overall
led to increased volumes and diversification of existing agricultural production systems among
credit beneficiaries. In addition, beneficiaries, for example in the grape and olive production
sector in the Caplina area, have been establishing and developing links with established
processors in the project area and neighboring countries such as Croatia. At the same time, these
beneficiaries display a clear interest in developing their own processing and marketing capacity.
To this end, they have been exploring with other producers in the area, opportunities to set up
producer cooperatives and/or associations. This process has moved rather slowly, however,
largely due to the relatively small number of commercially-oriented producers that are able or
willing to lead the process, the (though increasing) limited presence of large buyers such as
wholesalers/supermarkets and retailers in the project area, and the hesitance that persists among
many producers to join in cooperative systems mainly as a result of their negative experience
with the dissolution of the Agri-Kombinants following the breakdown of the former socialist
regime.



1
  The project was approved when the Euro was traded at near parity with the US$. The exchange rate subsequently
changed to as high as 1.55 US$ per Euro in 2007.




                                                        28
Beneficiaries continued to express their overall satisfaction with the terms of the credit line. In
particular, the favorable interest rate (typically 6.5% annually) and the grace periods of up to 3
years were reportedly critical for positive investment outcomes. The Mission found that, though
they prefer to leverage the revenues from their ongoing operations, there remains a strong interest
on the part of agricultural producers and processors to continue using commercial credit to further
expand their operations. The participating commercial bank is also likely to continue to provide
credit services to agricultural producers beyond the project's duration. As such, the project has
contributed to establishing sustainable access to credit services for agricultural producers. These
conditions bode well for the implementation of the rural development grants program under the
ongoing ARDP project, which will follow the pre- and co-financing requirements for potential
beneficiaries of the EU IPARD program.

Although the credit line appears to have promoted increased marketing of commercial
agricultural production and strengthening of market linkages in the project area, the impact of the
investments made on employment levels has been small. . It is estimated that between 1to 3 new
full-time employees were recruited per investment under this Sub-component. Low productivity
levels and relatively high wages have been identified by beneficiaries as key obstacles to the
hiring of additional full-time employees.

Component 3: Commercial Farmer Development

Sub-Component A: Technology Development (Joint Competitive Grants Program  JCGP)

Republika Srpska

All 15 competitive research and demonstration grants were concluded by the first half of 2008,
with all payments now made including the final payments to the Faculty of Agriculture in Banja
Luka. A report summarizing the grant projects and technology demonstrations has been
prepared. The summary includes a description of the basic project data, objective, methods and
technology, results, financial benefits, and the technology transfer methods such as brochures and
field days. The information is also available on a CD. The funds used were KM 141,877 for six
applied research projects and KM 69,746 for nine technology demonstration projects for a total of
KM 211.624 under the CGP. The actual awarded amount was KM 287,094, with the remaining
funds undisbursed due to various delays in implementation and non-completion of all activities as
well as lower costs than expected.

Following the decision to discontinue the competitive grants during the Mid-Term Review, a
program of on-farm technology demonstrations was implemented in 2007 and 2008 with nine
different themes. This program provided local consultancy support; training, demonstrations and
publications; and, in some case, equipment and inputs to establish the demonstration. The themes
consisted of animal feeding using grass/clover mixtures and silage maize; milk quality
improvement; greenhouse production; plant protection; reproduction and artificial insemination
of pigs; cattle reproduction and artificial insemination; bee disease control and bee health;
establishment of machinery rings; and production of beans. Each grant included a number of
trainings, field days and demonstrations, and publications  for example, there were 14 training
sessions and 16 field days as part of the greenhouse production program in 2008. The cost of the
program was KM 157,828 including KM 97,125 for consultant contracts and KM 60,703 for
equipment and inputs. These demonstrations have largely been concluded, although
unfortunately the proposed purchase of boars has not taken place for the pig AI demonstration



                                                29
farmer although the facilities to house the boars are ready and the laboratory equipment to test the
semen is in place.

A total of 13 participants received training as part of the Young Scientists grant program. All
contracts have now been completed. Most courses took place at regional institutions for a period
of 1 to 2 months, although one went to Beltsville, USA. The total cost was KM 113,633
compared with a planned cost of KM 163,536 due to lower travel and course costs than expected.
Around eight associations, cooperatives and companies have benefited from working with these
young scientists, many of whom have continued to live and work in the project area.

Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

In the FBiH, the 14 competitive research grants have been completed although all the final steps
including preparation of the final reports have not yet been completed for five grants. The final
report has been submitted for the poultry feeding trial in Capljina, and it is anticipated that the
Popovo Polje table grape pruning program will be finalized soon. Six of the seven competitive
demonstration grants have been completed. However, two of the completed projects fell short of
their original targets and were terminated by mutual consent. Overall, some KM 483,821 of the
awarded amount of KM 542,528 has been disbursed. In the FBiH, a program of on-farm
technology demonstrations was not instituted to allow time for the completion of the competitive
grants.

A total of 13 participants received training as part of the Young Scientists grant program. All
contracts have now been completed except for the last one. The total cost was KM 176,979
compared with a planned cost of KM 185,409 due to lower travel and course costs than expected.

Summary of Findings

The competitive grants were carried out in cooperation with local farmers, associations,
cooperatives and businesses. However, most of the grants were awarded to and managed by
specialists from one or two academic or research institutions, indicating that the process was less
than competitive as indicated during earlier supervision missions. In addition, it appeared there
was a tendency for many competitive grants to be research-driven rather than farmer-driven and
thus not always entirely responsive in addressing the farmers' problems. Many grants also
suffered delays or activities were not completed, partly due to procedural difficulties during the
approval process, documentation, procurement, VAT payments and other fiduciary issues, as well
as deficiencies in the management of the grants by the beneficiaries and service providers.
Overall, since many grants faced implementation delays and were not delivering the intended
results, a sensible decision was taken to discontinue the competitive grants after the second round.
Despite these problems, there are useful results from some of the competitive grants that could
still be more widely disseminated. The completion of the final reports and the preparation of
publications and other information materials such as CDs remain necessary steps to complete the
program.

The Young Scientists grant program is considered to have been largely successful. The scientists
have continued to work with their home institutions, and about 30% have participated in the
market integration component, maintained contacts with their host institution, and continued to
provide consultation, additional research and business cooperation with clients.

Sub-Component B: Microcredit



                                                30
Overall performance under this sub-component has been satisfactory. The participating MCOs
fully disbursed the available project funds and have been revolving project funds extensively.
Resources have been on-lent mainly for livestock (52 %) and beekeeping (10%) sector in the RS,
while in the Federation resources were on-lent mainly to the vegetable (52%) and mixed
production (14%) sector. The participating MCOs maintain high repayment rates with 0% of the
portfolio at risk (30 days past due) in the RS, and only 0.7% in the FBiH. The percentage of
micro-credits extended to women amounts to about 30% in both the FBiH and the RS.

            Credits                      No.     Total on-      RS          FBiH
                                                   lent
            Total Credits with reflow            9,400,000   3,700,000    5,700,000
            Total credits               >5000                  2200          2500
            Average Loan size                                  1,700        3,400
            Lending to women                                   28%           31%



The Mission met with various micro-credit beneficiaries in the FBiH (Caplijna, and Ljubuski) and
the RS (Belia, Trebinje, and Ljubinje) to continue its assessment of the microcredit line's
contribution to the project development objectives. As with the commercial credit line, the
Mission found that the micro-credit resources were generally used in accordance with the
originally intended purposes and that the conclusions of the preliminary assessment conducted
during the previous mission still hold. The investments helped initiate new agricultural
production activities or increase the production levels of existing small-scale agricultural
activities by the beneficiaries. However, marketing of the additional production volumes
continued to be conducted through individual sales and relatively informal local networks as
opposed to emerging market/supply chain linkages. Many of the beneficiaries are not registered
producers, though most intend to register in the near future. Nonetheless, the generated revenues
generally constituted a critical additional source of income for rural households whose income
mainly depends on retirement or unemployment benefits, and other economic activities, including
full-time employment with state-owned companies or local administrations. Additional labor
demands, if any, were met through the occasional engagement of household/family members or
seasonal labor. Importantly, as energy and feed prices, though still high, have dropped
significantly, agriculture production systems of beneficiaries that suffered major losses last
summer, in particular those engaged in pig breeding, have started to recover.

The Mission found that beneficiaries were satisfied overall with the terms of the microcredit lines.
Although interest rates (typically 12.5% annually) are broadly considered to be high, beneficiaries
acknowledged that the flexibility of the microcredit lines in terms of less stringent documentation
requirements and conditions significantly improved their access to credit. Typically, the
participating MCOs require applicants to provide 3 guarantors for the microcredit as opposed to
collateral such as land or housing property. The Mission found that, though they prefer to
leverage the revenues from their ongoing operations, there remains a strong interest on the part of
small-scale producers and processors to continue using microcredit to further develop their
activities. The participating MCOs are also likely to continue to provide microcredit services to
small-scale producers and processors. The project thus contributed to the development of special
loan products for this clientele and, as with the commercial credit component, these conditions
bode well for the implementation of the EU IPARD compatible rural development grants
program under the ARDP project.

Sub-Component C: Irrigation Rehabilitation


                                                31
The irrigation subcomponent was concluded in a satisfactory manner. A detailed review of
WUAs and current arrangements for water fee collection confirms the higher cohesiveness of
WUAs operating smaller irrigation systems. The micro-systems on average report 90% in water
fee collection rates. Water fees, due to the nature of the systems in providing technical as well as
irrigation water, are composed of two elements, a base membership fee, of ~3.0KM/household/
month, and an irrigation water fee collected on a per hectare basis averaging 100KM/ha. The fees
add up --depending on the system-- to between 0.5 - 1.5 KM/m3. It must be noted that the
irrigation is largely supplemental and the limited capacity of the systems only allows for drip
irrigation and consequently a very low use of water per/ha. Regardless, where these systems have
been installed, the areas under high value crops have increased by 30% on average where
previously only fodder was grown. In the large systems of open canals, there is a large increase
in area irrigated (+30%) and in crop yields (+20%). However, water fee collection and system
management remain difficult in part due to the still significant amount of land that remains fallow
due to lack of registration and conclusion of land owned by refugees . Institutional arrangements
that clearly define roles and responsibilities have been addressed by agreements between the
various parties and is an important achievement. However, these agreements leave WUAs
vulnerable to a certain level of interference by municipalities and municipal water companies.
This problem should be addressed in a more systematic manner through new legislation and
regulation that should be part of any further activities in the irrigation sector.
Republika Srpska
4 municipalities (Trebinje, Ljuhmje, Bileca and Berkovici) benefitted from this activity. The
works included rehabilitation of existing systems for irrigation and water supply systems as well
as construction of new irrigation systems, drinking water supply systems and technical water
supply systems.
Considering the fact of having very specific project area of Herzegovina, where majority of areas
do not have any water access (drinking nor technical) (the only water supply is through collection
of rainfalls from roofs'). As part of the construction of irrigation systems , the project also tried
to resolve issue of water supply at the same time, in those areas where that was possible.
Therefore, 21 Contracts have been implemented. These contracts were for reconstruction-
rehabilitation of 7 irrigation systems. 1 water supply systems and 12 combined, irrigation and
water supply, systems
The following has been achieved;
    16 new Water Users Association established with 964 members
    The Union of WUAs of Eastern Herzegovina has been established,
    678 m of existing concrete channels were rehabilitated and 3.166 m of new
        channels were constructed.
    10.793 m of existing pipelines rehabilitated and 79.269 in new pipelines constructed,
    13 pump stations constructed and 23 pumps installed.
    rehabilitation of 2 existing reservoirs has been done and 8 new ones constructed
    Arable land increased from 1.649 to 2.421,45 ha
    Actually irrigated land increased from 159 to 2.029 ha
    1834 ha of arable land now is possible
    2.564 farmers have benefited from these activities or 10.238 inhabitants.
      Water Users Association




                                                 32
Until the end of 2009, there has been 14 WUA registered in total, and two Irrigation Sections
under cooperatives of ,,Petrovo Polje" and Popovka". WUAs have 964 members in total, there is
one more WUA under the establishment, Orasje, which has been the section of WUA Popovo
polje.

Activities of individual WUAs recently have related to setting up water price i.e. definition of the
cost structure, which includes: water costs, electricity, maintenance, extraordinary expenses,
operators' costs, and membership fee. Review of water fees in each WUA has been shown in the
table no. 8. Each WUA has defined all these parameters, it decided on the person that will collect
the water fee, as well as maintenance person, and there are written decisions made at the sessions
of the management Boards of each individual Association.

All these activities were diligently monitored and followed by the WUA Consultant and Trebinje
office of the APCU. And it was additionally supported by Legal Consultant engaged by the
Project when needed, and who is responsible for legal framework of above mentioned decisions,

Moreover, by engagement of these two Consultants, the Union of WUAs and Local Authorities
were initiated to give these irrigation systems to the WUAs to be used by them. Therefore WUAs
sent letters to respective municipalities lo assign them irrigation systems for the period of five
years, including all duties and responsibilities of the WUAs, i.e. maintenance and collection of
fees. Ljubinje and Berkovici completed this job fully, while Bileca and Trehinje are expected \o
make these decisions in the beginning of 2009.

The WUA consultant updated data on rationale of investments into irrigation and water supply
systems, and they include number of beneficiaries, cultivated land, irrigation land, and area of
some crops, yields before and after irrigation. The objective is to evaluate effects of investment
by comparing parameters before and after investment as well as to evaluate achievement of
project objectives. Some of the systems are still under implementation thus only the ones that
have been completed may show the effects of change.
The project has further increased the role of the Union of Water Users Associations to: the
percentage of charge for water and the introduction of monthly reporting of certain WUAs to the
Union, activities on update data on monitoring parameters, the analysis of problems with existing
WUAs, strengthening the relationship of the Union of WUA and individual members,
organization of the Assembly of the WUA. the organization of study trips, etc.

Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
        Project financed improvement of irrigation in areas where it is been used by private
farmers for increase of productivity and quality of their commercial production. This included
redesigning, repair and improvement of existing irrigation system used by private farmers.

Project areas with the focus of activities on irrigation rehabilitation were:

         Area of Municipality Ljubuski, and
         Area of Dubrave Plateau.

Project provided 1.6 mil. EUR for project areas of Dubrave Plateau and Ljubuski, and funds were
divided onto:



                                                  33
        Irrigation revitalization works,
        Water Management,
        Water quality monitoring, and
        Technical assistance.

Project financed improvements of irrigation in areas used by private farmers, which included:
      Repair of existing irrigation systems,
      Construction of completely new irrigation facilities,
      Assistance in water management and
      Forming of new effective self-financing Water Users Associations (WUA).

Performed activities in area of Municipality Ljubuski:
     Established 14 Water Users Associations (WUA) and Federation of WUA as top
       association;
     In repair works for canal system in length of 165 km of main canals on 2800 ha of area
       during 2004/5 amounting to 509,545.81 EUR. These works included cleaning and
       rehabilitation of complete system;
     Installed 65 new lift gates;
     Constructed 2400 meters of concrete canal;
     Successful WUAs received assistance for priority needs for improvements on irrigation
       infrastructure. Project invested additional 239,445.28 EUR creating 7.5 km of concrete
       canals, where previous earthen canals were replaced.. Works were performed by
       members of WUAs, and project provided construction material.

Besides works on cleaning and rehabilitation of hydro-melioration system (HMS) in Ljubuski,
Project financed:
     Work of Committee for support in establishment and work of WUAs,
     Equipping of office of Federation of WUAs,
     Development of data base for whole HMS Ljubuski,
     Installation of water gauges.

Project results and impact:
    Complete infrastructure for irrigation transferred for management and maintenance to
        WUAs and Federation of WUAs as top association, which was the primary objective of
        the Project;
    Through rehabilitation and infrastructure improvement works, HMS Ljubuski was fully
        restored with 2800 ha of agriculture land;
    Irrigated area is increased for 30%;
    Agriculture production is increased for 30%;
    Due to secure water supply and application of new technologies, the yield increased up to
        20% on the same surfaces/areas;
    In the last years, more profitable cultures (higher value crops) with larger water demands
        were introduced into production (such as vegetables, berry fruits and other).

Performed activities in area of Dubrave Plateau:
     Project area of Dubrave Plateau covers areas of Municipalities: Neum, Ravno, Stolac,
       Capljina and Mostar;
     12 WUAs and two sectors established in project area;
     In irrigation projects invested 664,679.44 EUR;


                                               34
        Constructed twelve completely new irrigation systems and facilities/objects;
        Rehabilitated and expanded two larger irrigation systems;
        Irrigation projects covered over 400ha of new surfaces, and 300ha of area is back in
        function from irrigation aspect;
        Project financed works where the following was constructed:
                -        Eight concrete water reservoirs of capacity of 100  200 m3;
                -        Two concrete accumulations (for rain water) of capacity of 500 m3;
                -        Laid down 25748 meters of pipelines of various profiles;
                - Constructed seven pumping stations with 12 pumping aggregates of various
                  capacities;
                -        Repaired 3200 meters of existing pipelines;
                -        Repaired and cleaned 6227 meters of input canal and four lift gates;
                -        Constructed 2000 meters of concrete canal;
                -        Repaired 1700 meters of concrete canals.

Project results and impact:
    Existing irrigation infrastructure transferred for management and maintenance to WUAs;
    Existing irrigation infrastructure which was completely devastated, through repair works
        is back in irrigation function;
    Implementation of these projects largely contributed to increase in agriculture production,
        introduction of new cultures/crops, increase in quality of agriculture products, production
        planning, etc.;
    As in Ljubuski area, in production today we have more profitable cultures/crops with
        larger water supply demands, such as vegetables, and lately land under orchards and
        vineyards are increasing;
    Irrigation projects enabled irrigation of new 400ha of agriculture areas, and 300ha of land
        was fully restored in the irrigation sense (these 300ha of land have had different irrigation
        systems in place before);
    Agriculture production is increased for 25  30%, and yield for 30%;
    Constructed facilities/objects are used by over 800 agricultural households organized into
        WUAs, and association membership is increasing on a daily basis, depending on the
        system capacity and irrigation facilities/objects. Over 80% of beneficiaries/users up-to-
        date did not have any possibility to irrigate their parcels.

Other activities in project areas:
    Training of officials of WUAs conducted by local and foreign experts;
    Monitoring of quality of water and soil;
    Data on quality of soil and recommendations for improving its quality were presented in
       the field;
    Development of water charges study;
    Publishing of WUA bulletin;
    Study tour to Macedonia;
    Chairman of Federation of WUAs from Ljubuski participated on a round table regarding
       reforms in irrigation (round table organized in Bucharest);
    For WUAs procured following equipment: (i) 2 (two) mopeds; (ii) 15 (fifteen)
       lawnmowers; (iii) water flow meter.




                                                 35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Methodology for financial analysis

The financial analysis estimates the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) and Financial Net
Present Value of net incremental benefits (FNPV) for the project life of 10 years.

The current analysis used the appraisal analysis that has been prepared in 2002 in FARMOD and
introduced some changes to it. These changes included (i) preparation of additional agriculture
enterprise models and farm models and (ii) revision of yields, size of benefiting areas, actual
numbers and types of agricultural enterprises.

The appraisal analysis estimates the likely financial returns to agriculture enterprises benefiting
from the enterprise credits as well as irrigation system rehabilitation through six indicative
enterprise models. The models included establishment of production of (i) Vrance wine grape;
(ii) Kardinal table grape; (iii) Aida Red apple; (iv) peach; (v) mandarin; and (vi) greenhouse
vegetables. All enterprise models assumed the replacement of existing un-irrigated and/or
establishment of vineyards and orchards with improved varieties of table grapes, wines and fruits.
Farmers used enterprise credit facility to make these investments.

The ICR analysis used all of the aforementioned enterprise models and added improved dairy
farming and beekeeping. The investments in livestock accounted for 41% of overall enterprise
credit facility and 52% of micro-credit facility in RS. Therefore, the current analysis re-used the
appraisal dairy farm model. It also prepared a beekeeping model as 19% of total enterprise credits
and 10% of micro-credit facility RS were invested in this sector.2

No information was available for the enterprises investing in agribusiness and they were not
included in this analysis. First replacements of old plants of orchard and vineyard with improved
varieties occurred only in 2005/2006. At the time of survey these plants did not reach full fruit-
bearing age and yield information for orchard and vineyard was unavailable. Therefore, the
analysis uses the appraisal yield assumptions for them. Average size of the actual credits received
per hectares of orchard and vineyard was very similar to the total investment cost assumption
used in the appraisal analysis. Therefore, the appraisal investment items and costs were again re-
used in the current analysis.

The expected returns to investment in the development and rehabilitation of irrigation systems
were estimated in the appraisal analysis through farm models that represent different production
systems. These models include (i) wine grape, ii) table grape, (iii) greenhouse vegetable/field
crop, (iv) early field vegetables; and (v) irrigated maize and alfalfa. It was assumed that the
representative farm models have 2 hectares of cultivated land and adopt new agricultural
technologies and make small investments after water delivery becomes reliable and financial
resources become available. These models, which are partial household models, mainly account
for specific income-generating activities and no attempt has been made to quantify additional
non-farm sources of income such as remittances.




2
 The financial information for the beekeeping model was extracted from the USAID and SIDA's joint
analysis Beekeping Industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina prepared in 2010.



                                                 36
The analysis assumed that all un-irrigated vineyard and orchard as well as some additional areas
previously used for maize and wheat cultivation would be replaced with improved varieties of
orchard and vineyard. However, not all vineyard and orchard were replaced; thus the ICR
analysis included additional models for old vineyard and orchard that remain unplanted but
benefit from improved water delivery and better orchard practices (pruning, sorting, grading). It
should be also noted that the yields for existing/old plants was kept constant over the entire
project period as the information on the age stocks was unavailable. Finally, the ICR analysis
added one farm model producing onion and potatoes.

As para 4 mentions, the ICR analysis aims to estimate the project benefits resulted from the
productivity improvements only despite the substantial contribution of the project's to
profitability improvements. Specifically, the project supported farmers to improve agricultural
technology, marketing knowledge and post-harvest handling practices. The PCS, for instance,
demonstrates that the numbers of cash crops in the farm as well as number of greenhouses
increased among the project farmers than in non-project farmers. Similarly, the project farmers
use sorting and grading practices and other quality improvement related activities more often than
the non-project farmers. These activities certainly contribute to increase in profitability and
selling prices for the project farmers. However, the detailed price information received by project
and non-project farmers for the same produces is unavailable. To avoid counting the results of
recent food price increases as the project attribute, the analysis did not use latest national prices
for 2008-2009 and instead, the ICR analysis uses 2002 constant prices.

Production systems summarized in Table 1 are used as a basis for both enterprise and farm
models.
                                          Table 1. Summary of Production Systems
           I r r ig a te d C r o p /V in e y a r d /O r c h a r d              L iv e s to c k /F o d d e r M o d e ls
                                  M o d e ls
             (P e r 2 h e c ta r e o f ir r ig a te d fa r m )              (H erd       g r o w th o v e r 1 0 y e a r s)
                                 V in e y a rd                                              D a iry C o w s
         V r a n c e w in e g r a p e s ( r e d ) ( n e w /e x is tin g )              S ta rt w ith 5 c o w s .
           K a r d in a l ta b le g r a p e s ( n e w /e x is tin g )              A r tific ia l in s e m in a tio n .
                                                                             S e ll m ilk , c u lle d liv e s to c k a n d
                                 O rch ard s
                     A p p le s (b o x e d /e x is tin g )                                     Fodder
                    P e a c h e s ( b o x e d /e x is tin g )                     M a iz e s ila g e (irrig a te d )
                   M a n d a rin s (b o x e d /e x is tin g )                  A lfa lfa ( ir r ig a te d & r a in fe d )
                      E a r ly F ie ld V e g e ta b le s
                    P o ta to e s /T o m a to e s /B e a n s
                         S u m m e r V e g e ta b le s                                    B e e k e e p in g
                                P e p p e rs                                        S ta rt w ith 3 0 h iv e s .
                                                                            Im p ro v e d q u a lity a n d h u s b a n d ry
                     I m p r o v e d P la s tic H o u s e
                     T o m a to e s (e a rly m a rk e t)
                   C a p s ic u m ( s u m m e r m a r k e t)
                    H o t p e p p e rs (la te m a rk e t)
               F ie ld c ro p s (irrig a te d & ra in fe d )
                                  M a iz e
                                  W heat
                            L u c e rn e (h a y )




                                                                    37
Key assumptions

1.       Project areas. Initially, the project targeted to rehabilitate irrigation systems with a
command area of 544 hectares in RS and 2,820 hectares in FBiH. Accordingly, the appraisal
analysis estimated benefits for those 3,424 hectares. However, the project succeeded to
rehabilitate systems serving 692 hectares in RS and 3,550 hectares in FBiH. The ICR analysis
estimated benefits for 692 hectares of land in RS. However, only 2,820 hectares in FBiH were
included in the analysis. The additional 750 hectares of land returned to production only in 2009
and due to the assumption on benefit phasing described in para 18, the benefits for this land
would start accumulation only in 2012. The current analysis estimates the benefits and costs
streams for 2003- 2011 and 2012 is beyond this project period.

According to the survey results, current cropping patterns are similar to the one assumed in the
appraisal analysis for the with project scenario. Since 2003, numbers of greenhouse owners
among project farmers increased from 0.1% to 4.1% while areas under greenhouses increased
from 60 to 100m2 per household. The project farmers also produce more vegetables than the non-
project farmers. It also suggests that the project farmers are increasingly investing in vineyards.
Unfortunately, the survey failed to collect information on actual cropping patterns.3 Therefore,
the ICR analysis re-uses the appraisal cropping pattern assumptions in the with project scenario
that is summarized in Table 2. Please note that vineyard and orchard in this table include both
newly established and existing plants.

                        Table 2. Changes in cropping patterns (2002-2010)
                                                             RS                                     FBiH
                 Crops/Orchards/
                   Vineyards                   WOP           WP        Change         WOP            WP          Change

             Maize                    65%       28%       -56%                        41%           32%           -23%
             Wheat                     0%        0%         -                         23%           11%           -53%
             Potato                   4.8%      5.5%      13%                         3%           7.5%           138%
             Alfa-alfa                 0%        3%                                     -          2.3%
             Strawberry                 -         -         -                         0%           0.5%
             Vegetables               12%       15%      126%                         11%           22%            99%
             Vineyards                12%       15%       23%                         21%          24.5%           13%
             Orchards                  0%        7%         -                         0%           0.9%           900%
                  Note: WOP  Without project; WP  With project

2.       Yields. The PCS demonstrates that the improved (and newly established) water delivery
resulted in an approximately 30% yield increase for all crops in both entities. However, the ICR
analysis conservatively assumes the yield increases in the range of 10% to 30%. No changes to
the yield assumptions for the improved varieties of grapes and fruits were introduced as first
plants were established in 2006 only and did not reach full fruit-bearing age yet.4 As Table 3


3
    Please see the Project Completion Survey Report for details

4
 The disbursement of the enterprise credits started only in 2005. However, only 5 credits were received in 2005 and largest share of
credits were disbursed in 2006.




                                                                  38
shows, the analysis assumes moderate yields increases for the existing vineyard and orchard and
these were kept constant over the entire project period. The ICR analysis did not introduce
changes to the milk yield assumptions due to the lack of actual data.
                        Table 3. Yield Projections: Appraisal and ICR (kg/ha)

                                                               With Project
                                           Without                                   Incremental
         Crops/Orchards/Vineyards
                                           Project                                      (%) /2
                                              /1         Appraisal        ICR
        Wheat                               3,000             4,000         4,800            30
        Maize (grain)                       5,000             7,000         7,000            30
        Alfa-alfa                           6,000            12,000        11,600            -3
        Early field potatoes               15,000            20,000        18,800            25
        Early field tomatoes               60,000            70,000        70,000            17
        Green Beans                            -                -          12,000
        Field potatoes/3                   12,000               -          15,000           25
        Strawberry                             -             18,000        18,000
        Onion                               8,000             none         10,300            29
        Summer paprika grade I            18,000            22,000        23,000            22
        Summer paprika grade II            7,000            10,000         9,000            20
        Wine (existing)/4                   5,000               -           5,650            13
        Apples (existing)/5                10,000               -          11,000           10
        Mandarin Grade I (existing)/6       8,000               -           8,000             0
        Mandarin Grade II (existing)/7      1,000               -           2,000           100
                  Note:
                  1/ The ICR analysis kept the appraisal yields in Without Project scenario unchanged
                  2/ Incremental between Without Project and ICR yields
                  3/ The appraisal analysis did not have model for field potato
                  4-7/ The yields for the newly established orchard and vineyard plants are the same as in
             the appraisal analysis. The details on it could be found in Annex to this report.

3.       Prices. As discussed earlier, the ICR analysis used the 2002 constant prices for all inputs
and outputs for the entire project period except for the irrigation water fees. During the project
appraisal, water fees for the ground irrigation were estimated at 0.1KM/m3 and 0.2KM/m3 for
pump irrigation. However, at the project completion, recorded water fees ranged between 0.5KM/
m3 to 1.5KM/m3. Due to unavailability of information on schedule and scale of water fee
increase by year, the ICR analysis assumed a gradual increase of pump irrigation fee from
0.2KM/m3 to 0.5KM/m3. The ground irrigation fee is assumed to increase to 0.2KM/m3 in year
six. This conservative assumption is based on the fact that the irrigation in both entities is largely
supplemental. Therefore, the system mainly used for the drip irrigation and thus consumption of
the water is low. However, the information on the actual water consumption per hectare of crop
was lacking. As the appraisal assumptions on water consumptions seemed high, the ICR analysis
keeps these assumptions but adopts aforementioned conservative assumptions for water fees
increase over the entire project period.

Benefit phasing. The appraisal mission assumed that the project benefits in both entities would
start accumulating in the following phases: 26% in year 1, 50% in year 2, 73% in year 3, 88% in
year 4, and reach full development in year 5. The ICR analysis adjusted this phasing on the basis
of the actual percentage of irrigation and drainage rehabilitation completion in each entity and
actual disbursement of credit facilities. It also assumed that yield increases starts from the second
season after the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems are completed, i.e, from 2006.




                                                   39
Labor. All households are assumed to provide approximately 300 person days annually. The
appraisal analysis priced the farm family labor at its opportunity costs. The ICR analysis modified
this assumption using a zero value for the farm family labor to make it easier to see the full
benefits to the farm household from the production.

Terms and conditions of credits. The appraisal assumptions and actual terms and conditions for
credits are summarized in Table 4. As the table demonstrates, the appraisal interest rates for both
enterprise and micro-credits were assumed at 9%. However, the average actual interest rate for
the enterprise credits was approximately 6.5%, while the interest rate for micro-credits was
recorded at around 12%.
        Table 4. Terms and Conditions for Credits: Appraisal and ICR Assumptions
                          Appraisal assumptions               Revised assumptions
                          Interest Grace        Repayment     Interest   Grace    Repayment
                          charges Period        Period        charges    Period   Period
   Enterprise credits
   Vineyard                 9%       2 years      4 years       6.5%      2 years     7 years
   Orchard                  9%       3 years      4 years       6.5%      2 years     8 years
   Plastic House            9%       1 years      4 years       6.5%      1 years     4 years
   Dairy Farm               9%       2 years      4 years       6.5%      2 years     5 years
   Beekeeping               9%       1 years      4 years       6.5%      1 years     3 years
   Micro-credits
   Field Crops              9%       0 years      1 years        12%      0 years     1 years
   Other sectors                                                 12%      0 years     1 years

Results

Enterprise Models

Eight enterprise models represent investment activities and benefits deriving from enterprise
credit facility. The models include establishment of Vrance wine grape production, Kardinal table
grape production, Aida Red apple production, mandarin production, peach production,
greenhouse vegetable production, improved dairy farm, and beekeeping. Detailed tables for all
enterprise models are provided in Annex 2.

Vrance wine grape production model demonstrates the farmer replacing an existing two hectare,
un-irrigated vineyard containing local grape varieties producing 14 tons of grapes per year (7 ton
per hectare) with two hectare of the red Vrance variety. The farmer receives credit to invest in (i)
vines; (ii) concrete posts; (iii) trellis wire; (iv) manure; (v) fertilizer; and (vi) hired labor for
planting. Farmer's contribution to total investment cost finances other operating costs. Total
investment cost is estimated at USD 14,672, structured with beneficiary's contribution of USD
2,201 and a loan of USD 12,471, repayable over seven years, with a grace period of two years.
Financial results demonstrate that, in average, the investment generates an incremental annual net
profit of USD 5,391 during entire project period. The cash flow analysis shows that the farmer
would not face any constrains with repayment of principles and interest. The financial returns to
the investment are estimated at 42.7% and a FNPV at USD 23,476 ( Table 5 and Annex 2).

Kardinal table grape production model demonstrates a farmer that invested in the replacement
of an existing 0.5 hectare of un-irrigated vineyard containing various local grape varieties
producing 3.5 tons of grapes per year (7 ton per hectare), together with 1.5 ha of partially
irrigated maize with two hectare of the Kardinal table grape variety. Initial investment items



                                                40
would finance: (i) vines; (ii) concrete posts; (iii) trellis wire; (iv) manure; (v) fertilizer; and (vi)
hired labor for planting. Other operating costs are financed by the farmer and include: (i) sprayer
hire; (ii) irrigation costs; and (iii) tractor operating expenses. Total investment cost is estimated
at USD 16,156, structured with beneficiary's contribution of USD 2,423 and a loan of USD
13,733, repayable over seven years, with a grace period of two years. Financial returns to the
investment are estimated at 13% and a FNPV at USD 2,490 (Table 5 and Annex 2).

Apple production model demonstrates an example of a typical medium-scale fruit production
enterprise that replaces un-irrigated maize on two hectares with apple of the Aida Red variety.
Total investment cost is estimated at USD 24,869, structured with beneficiary's contribution of
USD 3,730 and a loan of USD 21,139, repayable over eight years, with a grace period of two
years. Investment costs would finance: (i) grafted seedlings; (ii) wood boxes for
storage/packaging; (iii) an insulated storage barn; (iv) fertilizer for planting; (v) initial chemical
treatment; and (vi) hired labor for planting. Farmer's contribution covers other operating costs.
Financial results demonstrate that the investment generates an incremental annual net profit of
USD 9,134. The cash flow analysis demonstrates that the farmer would reach a positive cash flow
only in year five. The financial returns to the investment are estimated at 27.9% and a FNPV at
USD 34,784 (Table 5 and Annex 2).

Mandarin production model demonstrates a farmer investing in establishment of two hectares
of mandarin orchard. Total investment cost is estimated at USD 13,695, structured with
beneficiary's contribution of USD 2,054 and a loan of USD 11,641, repayable over seven years,
with a grace period of two years. Investment costs include: (i) grafted seedlings; (ii) wood boxes
for packaging; (iii) fertilizer for planting; (iv) initial chemical treatment; and (v) hired labor for
planting. Financial results demonstrate that the investment generates a positive incremental
annual net profit only in year five. The financial returns to the investment are estimated at 21.2%
and a FNPV at USD 15,144 (Table 5 and Annex 2).

Greenhouse vegetable production model illustrates an example of agriculture enterprise
adopting improved plastic tunnels, which are more productive than the traditional tunnels due to a
combination of improved and higher heating efficiency, better light transmission, better fertilizer
and water application using drip irrigation, use of biological control for whitefly, and more
efficient use of labor. The model assumes the construction of a new 0.60 hectare plastic
greenhouse, to replace open field production of the maize with early season tomato, summer
season paprika and late season hot pepper. The total investment cost is estimated at USD 69,011,
structured with beneficiary's contribution of USD 10,352 and a loan of USD 58,659, repayable
over seven years, with a grace period of two years. The investment is expected to generate an
incremental annual net profit of USD 11,183 over entire project period. The investment
demonstrates a FIRR of 25.4% and a FNPV of USD 38,004 (Table 5 and Annex 2)

Improved Dairy Farm Model demonstrates an example of an existing dairy cow farmer
improving production volume through replacing existing low yielding local Busha cattle with
imported high yielding Holstein-Friesian cows. The local Busha cows produce approximately
1,500-2000 litres of milk per lactation, while Friesian cows produce yield more than 5,000 litres
per lactation. The model assumes that the farmer would start with five Holstein Friesian cows in
year one which would grow to a total herd of 16 head in year 10.

In the without project scenario, mortality rate among Busha adults ranges between 2-3% while
immature mortality is estimated at 9%. The average calving rate is about 80%. Farmers practice
both artificial insemination and natural mating with bulls. Male calves are usually sold within a
week of birth although raising male stock to about 450kg and selling as "baby beef" is also


                                                  41
practiced. Dairy cattle are fed a mix of factory-produced concentrate, home-grown maize and
fodder comprising meadow hay and alfalfa hay.

The model assumes financing of 85% of the initial stock, building and equipment costs and 40%
of first year feed costs. The total investment cost required for this enterprise estimated at USD
22,806 structured with beneficiary's contribution of USD 3,421 and a loan of USD 19,385,
repayable over six years, with a grace period of two years.

Financial results demonstrate that the investment would generate an incremental annual net profit
of USD 6,838 in average for entire project period and a FNPV of USD 35,741. The model
generates a positive cash flow from year one; thus Table 5 does not show a FIRR.

Beekeeping model illustrates an establishment of average size beekeeping enterprise with 30 bee
hives. Investment would include the purchase of 30 bee hives, wax and first year winter feed
(honey), small tools and equipment, apiary and veterinary chemicals, jars and other minor
investment inputs. Total investment cost is estimated at USD 10,287, structured with
beneficiary's contribution of USD 1,543 and a loan of USD 8,744, repayable over three years and
a one year grace period. The investment demonstrates an incremental annual net income of USD
2,199 in average over entire project period. The model generates a FNPV of USD 10,335 and a
positive cash flow already in year one. Therefore, a FIRR is not provided.

    Table 5. Summary of Financial Results for Enterprises
                                                                                                  BAM1.0 =USD0.625
                                  Estimated Cost (USD)          Annual Net Benefits (USD)*
                                                                                              Incremental
                                                                                                  Net
                                                                                                Benefits         FNPV
       Enterprise models               Beneficiary's            Without   With   Increme                  FIRR
                               Loan                    Total                                  per USD1.0         (USD)
                                       Contribution             Project Project** n-tal
                                                                                                   of
                                                                                               investment
    Wine Grape Production 12,471             2,201 14,672           1,718    7,108    5,391          0.37 42.7% 23,476
    Table Grape Production 13,733            2,423 16,156           1,663    3,127    1,464          0.09 13.0%   2,490
    Apple Production          21,139         3,730 24,869              50    9,184    9,134          0.37 27.9% 34,784
    Mandarin Production       11,641         2,054 13,695           1,609    7,245    5,636          0.41 21.2% 15,144
    Greenhouse Vegetable 58,659             10,352 69,011           1,610   12,793   11,183          0.16 25.4% 38,004
    Improved Dairy Farm       19,385         3,421 22,806           1,729    8,567    6,838          0.30    n/a 35,741
    Beekeeping                 8,744         1,543 10,287             -      2,199    2,199          0.21    n/a 10,335
    * Annual Net Benefits is an average for the entire project period
    ** Annual Net Benefits after financing

Farm Models

4.       In addition to the enterprise models described in above section, farm models were used to
estimate the financial returns to investment in development and rehabilitation of irrigation
systems. These models included (i) wine grape, ii) table grape, (iii) greenhouse vegetable/field
crop, (iv) early field vegetables; (v) irrigated maize and alfa-alfa; and (vi) irrigated onion and
potatoes. Details of distribution of irrigated land among enterprise models and farm models are
summarized below.




                                                               42
        Table 6. Summary of Enterprise and Farm Models by Area and Location: Appraisal and
        ICR
                                                                                                    A p p r a is a l                IC R

           C r o p /O r c h a r d                                                                                                      in c l.a r e a s
                                                         F arm M odel                                                   F arm
            F a r m S y ste m                                                                       T o ta l A r e a                      under
                                                                                                                       M o d e ls
                                                                                                         (h a )                        E n te r p is e
                                                                                                                         (h a )
                                                                                                                                      M o d e ls (h a )
         F e d e r a tio n o f B o s n ia & H e r z e g o v in a
                                     M a n d a rin o rc h a rd                                           480                                          34
                                     V ra n c e g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (n e w )                       960                                          46
                                     W in e g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (e x is tin g )                                         960
                                     T a b le g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (n e w )                         240                                          30
                                     T a b le g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (e x is tin g )                                       240
                                     P e a c h p ro d u c tio n (n e w )                                                                              30
                                     G re e n h o u s e v e g e ta b le s (0 .6 h a )                    100                                          18
                                     G re e n h o u s e v e g e ta b le s (0 .2 h a )/fie ld             160
                                     c ro p s                                                                                 120
                                     E a rly fie ld v e g e ta b le p ro d u c tio n                     120                  240
                                     Ir rig a te d m a iz e a n d a lfa - a lfa p r o d u c tio n        760                  960
                                     Ir rig a te d o n io n a n d p o ta to e s p r o d u c tio n                             300
                                     T o ta l                                                           2820                 2820                1 5 8 .4
         R e p u b lik a
                                     E a rly fie ld v e g e ta b le                                      60                    74
                                     Ir rig a te d m a iz e a n d a lfa lfa                              100                  124
                                     Ir rig a te d o n io n a n d p o ta to e s p r o d u c tio n                             142
                                     G re e n h o u s e v e g e ta b le s (0 .2 h a )/fie ld              84
                                     c ro p s                                                                                 104
                                     P e a c h p ro d u c tio n                                          100                                          44
                                     V ra n c e g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (n e w )                       100                                          44
                                     W in e g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (e x is tin g )                    100                  124
                                     T a b le g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (n e w )                                                                      28
                                     T a b le g ra p e p ro d u c tio n (e x is tin g )                                       124
                                     A p p le p ro d u c tio n                                                                                       18
                                     T o ta l A r e a                                                    544                  692                   134



Wine grape farm model illustrates a typical farm household with 2 hectares of rainfed land
producing maize on one hectare and wine on remaining area before the project start. The
household improves the production system replanting 0.3 hectares of wine plant with improved
varieties, keeping 0.7 hectare of old wine plant and replacing area under maize with onion and
field potatoes. The household receives a micro-credit at about USD 3,000 to finance investment
items. In response to these benefits, the household's annual benefits after financing increase from
USD 1,718 to USD 3,426. The household maintains a positive cash flow after financing except in
year 2, which implies that it would not face difficulties in repayment of principles and interest for
received micro-credit.

Table grape farm model demonstrates a typical farm household with 2 hectares of rainfed land
producing maize on 1.5 hectares and wine on 0.5 hectare before the project start. The household
improves the production system replacing wine with 1 hectare of improved table grapes and
cultivating one hectare of summer paprika. The household receives a micro-credit at about USD
8,000 to finance investment costs with a repayment period of 1 year and interest rate of 12%. In
response to these benefits, the household's annual benefits increase from USD 3,263 to USD
18,165. The household maintains a positive cash flow after financing from year 2. However, it
may face difficulties in repayment of principles and interest for received short-term credit in year
2 when the negative cash flow is estimated at about USD 10,000.

Greenhouse vegetable/field crop farm model demonstrates a typical farm household with 2
hectares of land producing maize on 1.5 hectares and summer paprika on 0.5 hectare before the
project start. The household improves the production system enlarging area under summer
paprika to 1.5 hectares, keeping 0.3 hectare of maize and adding 0.2 hectare of improved plastic
greenhouse for production of early season tomatoes, summer season capsicum and late season hot
peppers. The household receives a credit at about USD 18,000 to invest in greenhouse and
finance incremental production costs. In response to these benefits, the household's annual


                                                                                     43
benefits after financing increases from negative USD 233 to USD 8,069. The household
maintains a positive cash flow after financing, which implies that it would not face difficulties in
repayment of principles and interest for received credit.

Early field vegetable farm model demonstrates a typical farm household with 2 hectares of
irrigated land producing early tomatoes on one hectare, early potatoes on one hectare and summer
paprika on 2 hectares (double cropping) before the project start. The household keeps the same
cropping pattern and benefits from increase in yields. The household does not receives credit. In
response to the improved water delivery and better farm practices, the household's annual
benefits after financing increases from USD 34,594 to USD 41,313. The investments
demonstrate a FIRR of 36.7%.

Irrigated maize and alfa-alfa farm model demonstrates a typical farm household with 2
hectares of rainfed land producing maize on one hectare and on remaining area before the project
start. The household improves the production system keeping the same cropping pattern but
rotating alfalfa cultivation with one hectare of onion after 4 years. The household receives a
micro-credit to finance incremental production costs. In response to these benefits, the
household's annual benefits after financing increases from USD 1,610 to USD 1,781. The
household maintains a positive cash flow after financing, which implies that it would not face
difficulties in repayment of principles and interest for received micro-credit.

Irrigated onion and potatoes farm model demonstrates a typical farm household with 2
hectares of rainfed land producing maize before the project start. The household improves the
production system cultivating onion on 0.80 hectare, potato on another 0.8 hectare and keeping
0.4 hectare of maize. The household receives a micro-credit to finance incremental production
costs. In response to these benefits, the household's annual benefits after financing increases from
USD 2,663 to USD 6,986. The household maintains a positive cash flow after financing, which
implies that it would not face difficulties in repayment of principles and interest for received
micro-credit.




                                                 44
                                                  Table 7. Summary Financial Results for Farm
                                                                   Models
                                                                                                                    KM 1.0 =USD 0.625
                                                                                                       Farm Models
                                                                                            Greenhouse                           Irrigated       Irrigated
               Indicators/1
                                                                          Table             vegetables/       Early field        maize and       onion and
                                                            Wine          Grape             field crop        vegetable          alfa-alfa       potatoes
        Gross Output, KM                   WOP*               6,330           5,295                  3,495             55,350            4,260           4,260
                                           WP*               15,855          35,400                 49,179             66,100            6,947          11,178
                                           Incremental        9,525          30,105                 45,684             10,750            2,687           6,918
        Operating inputs, KM               WOP                2,982                    75            3,868                   -           1,685               -
                                           WP*                9,353           6,336                 27,268                   -           4,098               -
                                           Incremental        6,371           6,261                 23,400                   -           2,414               -
        Labour, KM                         WOP                     600             -                     -                   -              -                -
                                           WP*                1,020                -                 9,000                   -              -                -
                                           Incremental             420             -                 9,000                   -              -                -
        Total Inputs, KM                   WOP                3,582                    75            3,868                   -           1,685               -
                                           WP*               10,373           6,336                 36,268                   -           4,098               -
                                           Incremental        6,791           6,261                 32,400                   -           2,414               -
        Gross Margin, KM/2                 WOP                2,748           5,220         -           373            55,350            2,576           4,260
                                           WP*                5,481          29,064                 12,911             66,100            2,849          11,178
                                           Incremental        2,733          23,844                 13,284             10,750              274           6,918
        Gross Margin, USD                  WOP                1,718           3,263         -           233            34,594            1,610           2,663
                                           WP*                3,426          18,165                  8,069             41,313            1,781           6,986
                                           Incremental        1,708          14,902                  8,303              6,719              171           4,324
        Financial return after financing
        FNPV                                                  6,303           8,970                 16,280              2,417            1,182          14,970
        FIRR/3                                                     35%        22.9%                          23         36.7%     none           none
        Benefit/Cost ratio/4                                     1.32             1.24                  1.19              1.03            1.08             1.63
        Notes:
        *WOP is Without Project and WP is With Project
        /1 WOP and WP Project scenarios show average financial indicators for 20 year period.
        /2 Gross Margin before financing
        /3 No project loans are assumed for farm households in Model A.
        / Before financing




Summary. As results in Table 9 show, the project yields financial returns of 19.0% in FBiH and
a FNPV of USD 775,706. The current FIRR is lower than the appraisal FIRR that had been
estimated at 33.8%. In case of RS, a FNPV at USD 253,100 and a FIRR is estimated at 19.0%
that is lower than the appraisal results. These could be explained with number of factors including
(i) two years of project delay that resulted in the three years of gap between project rehabilitation
completion and benefit accumulation and (ii) the appraisal analysis adopted a bit optimistic
assumption with regard the replacement of large areas of vineyard and orchard (Table 6).

        The overall project generates a FNPV of USD1.0 million and a FIRR of 19.0%.
                                    Table 8. Summary of Financial Results
                               Entity                       Appraisal                                   ICR
                                                         FIRR     FNPV                          FIRR       FNPV
                                                                  (USD)                                    (USD)
                     RS                                  31.5%           ,099,502               19.0%             253, 100
                     FBiH                           33.8%              3,719,751                19.0%           775,706
                     Overall Project                 33.4%            13719752.5                19.0%          1,028,812




                                                                           45
Methodology

The analysis estimated the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Economic Net Present
Value of net incremental benefits (ENPV).

Key assumptions

Project life. The economic analysis calculates the economic benefits for a project life of 10 years.

Prices. In the appraisal analysis, financial prices were converted to economic prices by deducting
untaxed portion of input and output values. A shadow wage rate of 0.75 for unskilled labour and
1.0 for skilled labour were used for conversion of financial cost of labor into economic. The ICR
analysis used the same methodology and updated information on transfer payments. The
government subsidies for beekeeping and livestock sectors were excluded from the analysis.

Project benefits. The illustrative models described under the financial analysis section were used
as a basis for the calculation of the overall benefit streams after conversion of financial prices into
economic ones.

Project Costs. The appraisal analysis used the base economic costs of (i) component Private
Agribusiness Support; (ii) irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation cost; and (iii) 50% of cost of
subcomponent Technology Development of Commercial Farmers. The ICR analysis adopted a
slightly different approach and in addition to (i) and (ii), it included full economic cost of (iii) and
(iv) a share of Project Management component that is equal to the share of above mentioned two
components in overall project cost. Total economic base costs were estimated at USD 3.6 million
for FBiH and USD 2.9 million for RS.

Results

The Project as a whole yields ENPV of USD6.4 million and EIRR of 34.5% The economic
returns to RS is estimated at 16.5% and a ENPV at USD 0.5 million. In FBiH, a EIRR is
estimated at 42.4% and a ENPV at USD 5.8 million. The results are summarized in table 9

Higher economic results for the FBiH is the result of the higher conversation factors for the
vineyard and orchard output prices that ranges from 1.01 for strawberry to 1.26 for grapes. These
conversion factors were calculated at the appraisal and reused in the current analysis.

                          Table 9. Summary of Economic Results

                            Entity                EIRR               ENPV (USD)

                     RS                           16.5%                 507,568
                     FBiH                         42.4%                5,794,794
                     Overall Project              34.5%                6,364,862




                                                  46
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision esses


   (a) (a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Rapee Jaisaard            Senior Agricultural Economist        ECSSD   Task Team Leader
Lorenz Pohlmeier          Cooperative Development Specialist   ECSSD   FO Specialist
Garry Smith               Agricultural Specialist, FAO         ECSSD   Agriculturist
Nikoal Bradbear           Bee keeping specialist, FAO          ECSSD   Apiculture
Garry Christensen         Agricultural Economist, FAO          ECSSD   Economics
Rita Klees                Environmental Specialist             ECSSD   Env.Safeguards
Jesus Renzoli             Procurement Specialist               ECSPE   Procurement
Karl Wennerstrom          Financial Management Specialist      ECSPE   FM

Supervision/ICR
Ian McAllister Anderson   Consultant, Irrigation Specialist    AFTAR Irrigation
Rapee Jaisaard            Senior Agricultural Economist        ECSSD Task Team Leader
                          Cooperative Development
Lorenz Pohlmeier                                               ECSSD FO Specialist
                          Specialist
Garry Smith               Agricultural Specialist, FAO         ECSSD   Agriculturist
Nikoal Bradbear           Bee keeping specialist, FAO          ECSSD   Apiculture
Julian Lampietti          Lead Program Coordinator             MNSAR   Task Team Leader
 Samra Bajramovic         Program Assistant                    ECCBA   Mission support
 Pierre Olivier Colleye   Senior Microfinance Specialist       ECSS1   Micro Credit
 Daniel P. Gerber         Rural Development Specialist         ECSS1   Irrigation, Co-TTL
Martin Lenihan            Social Scientist                     ECSSD   Social Safeguards
 Lamija Hadzagic          Financial Management Specialist      ECSC3   FM
 Mirjana Karahasanovic    Operations Officer                   ECSS3   Coordination
 Nikola Kerleta           Procurement Analyst                  ECSC2   Procurement
 Esma Kreso               Environmental Spec.                  ECSS3   Env. safeguards
 Natalia Otel             Junior Professional Associate        ECSSD   Processing Support
 Cora Melania Shaw        Senior Agriculture Economist         ECSS3   Task Team Leader
 Garry A. Smith           Agricultural Specialist, FAO         ECSSD   Grants Specialist
 Philip Van der Celen     Junior Professional Associate        ECSSD   Micro-credit
 Sanjay N. Vani           Lead Financial Management Spec       OPCFM   FM
 Sabine Willems           Supply Chain Specialist              ECSSD   Supply Chains
Emmanuel Hidier           Ag Marketing, Wine, FAO              ECSSD   Wine Associations


(b) Staff Time and Cost




                                          47
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                4.00
  FY00                                                              118.00
  FY01                                                              173.00
  FY02                                                              170.00
Total:                                                              465.00

Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                              115.00
  FY03                                                              132.00
  FY04                                                              104.00
  FY05                                                              125.00
  FY06                                                              108.00
  FY07                                                              118.00
  FY08                                                              112.00
  FY09                                                               94.00
  FY10                                                               88.00

                         Total:                                     992.00




                                      48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(Combined summary from survey reports from both entities)

SSCADP organized a Project Completion Survey (PCS) for the purpose of analyzing effects of
project activities to present the socio-economic situation of households within the project area,
characteristics of their agricultural production, production technologies, ways of marketing their
products, etc.

This report presents a general assessment of the situation for households that were project
beneficiaries in comparison with households that were outside the area of project activities,
looking at changes in the time period of 2003-2008. Over the total period of implementation of
the project the range of activities included: market development, development of cooperatives
and associations, the development of commercial farmers and others.

The PCS was designed and undertaken with the primary objective of measuring the impact of the
project activities with regard to the project indicators as previously specified in the SSCADP
appraisal documentation. These indicators (Annex 1) are partly measured trough the PCS
questionnaire and partly trough the report on project activities. Indicators, such as marketable
surplus, income and employment in agriculture, agriculture productivity are measured and
commented trough this report.

For the purposes of the PCS a questionnaire was formulated consisting of the following
components: socio-economic characteristics of household production systems, profit and
production costs, marketing and sales channels, the impact of research projects and
demonstrations of new technologies, financing and rehabilitation irrigation. The main sample
comprised 470 households, representatives of producer organizations in the project area and
control group comprised 60 households from villages where no project activities had taken place
("non-project group"). The main sample for the Republika Srpska selected a total of 100 users of
micro-credit, 45 representatives of water users associations, 50 beekeepers, 5 dairy producers and
5 vine growers and winemakers. In the Federation the survey encompassed 100 credit
beneficiaries, 80 representatives of water users associations, and 5 wine growers.

Before the SSCADP commenced implementation in Republica Srpska, a survey had been
conducted on farmers in the area by staff of the Agriculture Extension Agency in 2003. The
sampling procedures and the questionnaire that was used are no longer available. However, in
the report below, it was felt that some of the data that had been reported from the study in 2003
could usefully be compared with the results from the PCS. Because the procedures adopted in the
2003 survey are not known, hypotheses could not be tested using statistical methodology.
Additional information relating to 2003 was collected in the PCS (2008) survey from the
respondents based on their recall of their circumstances at that time. The data representing 2003
are therefore indicative. In the Federation, the baseline survey had only been prepared in June
2005 by the PIU M&E specialist. The baseline however gave insufficient information as it relates
to household income levels and segregating the various sources of incomes. It was therefore
agreed to stick to the collection of data mainly as it relates to increases in production surpluses
including crop yields to determine project impacts.

For the purposes of interviewing and processing of the PCS the SSCADP project management
engaged the services of the consulting company PRISM Research which also had an obligation to
preliminary process the results. The project team then undertook further analysis and prepared the
report. In the RS the PCS was conducted in the four municipalities that make up the project area:


                                                49
Trebinje, Bileca, Berkovii, Ljubinje. In the Federation the areas encompassed The
Municipalities of Mostar, Caplijna, Liubuski, and Stolac.

During the planning stage of the PCS six main themes were identified to provide the focal points
for the survey. The report follows these general categories that are summarized as follows:
A. Socio-economic characteristics  family size, sex, age, main activity, labor
     availability/usage/cost, ownership/usage of equipment/other assets, storage facilities,
     livestock ownership and general asset base. Good data has been collected for 2008 and 2003
     and some patterns emerge.
B. Production systems Farm size, ownership, rental, number of plots/fields, irrigation methods,
     cropping patterns (greenhouses) and tree crops/vineyards, yields. Overall farm data has been
     collected for the principle agricultural activities and the ownership of land for these purposes.
     More detailed cropping pattern data is missing.
C. Revenues and costs information and marketing channels, revenue and gross margin estimates
      use/cost of hired labor, hired machinery, rent and other costs, use and cost of inputs. The
     data collected focuses on the commercial agricultural activities of each household. The
     results are therefore analyzed for the two major commercial enterprises of each household
     rather than focusing on individually farmed plots.
D. The impact of research grant work and demonstrations The questionnaire has a section that
     focuses on training and the household involvement in associated activities (focused on farm
     and AI demonstrations) and attendance and subsequent adoption rates are measured.
E. Gross margin analysis This has been undertaken for the most common commercial
     agricultural enterprises in each Entity. Income and the source of income have also been
     analyzed.
F. Labour special attention was requested for the analysis of the impact of the project on labor
     utilization, however, due to partial employment by many respondents, this impact could nto
     clearly be established.

In terms of socio-economic characteristics, households in the project area have an average of 4.5
adult household members, representing a roughly equal number of female and male members. In
the RS only 0.87 members per household where reported to be younger than 15 years of age, the
same figure is even lower in the Federation at 0.57%. In the RS, the low figure for school age
children was even lower in households of the non-project and it is assumed that these are
households of elderly people. Interestingly, in the Federation, in non project areas, the number of
females relative to males per household was some 12% higher. This would indicate a greater
level of mobility of males to work off farm. The total number of adults per household in non
project areas was only 20% lower than in project areas, contrary to observations in the RS.

The survey indicates that in both entities a very large proportion of the rural households do not
claim agriculture as their main activity, and agriculture represents less than half of household
income. In the Federation, only 40% of the adults in the household report agriculture as their
primary occupation. In the RS the figure is unclear from the survey, but household from
agricultural activities only amount to some 1/3 of household income. However, the survey also
failed to properly identify the value of agricultural consumption, in all likelihood agricultural
income is substantially larger than reported. In addition, the complex pension and taxation system
provides a strong incentive for under reporting incomes.

Almost an equal number of household members are employed in agriculture and outside
agriculture, and additional sources of household income are generated by pensions and some
remittances from abroad. In the RS Income from agriculture is an average of 3.970 KM, while the
average income outside agriculture is 5.536KM. Households with larger number of members


                                                 50
typically cultivate larger areas of agricultural land and generate greater revenues. The average
number of members per dunum is approximately 1 person.

In the Federation, household income from agriculture amounts to some 3,865KM slightly below
the RS. This compares well with the 2,650KM reported from non project areas. Income earned
from off farm activities, however, is somewhat higher in the Federation.

In comparison with 2003 (before the project activities) 13% of households in both entities
recorded an increase in the engagement of additional hired workforce. Increased use of
machinery is recorded at 20% in the Federation and 23% in the RS. The increased machinery
application was rented in 15% of the cases in the Federation, while in the RS 18% of increased
machinery use is reported as rental.

In the RS, on average households invested 8.320KM in the period 2003 to 2008, and investments
are mainly related to the construction of facilities for the accommodation of livestock, provision
of agricultural machinery, and partly to build plastic houses, purchase of processing equipment.
The level of investment in the Federation for that same period was around 4.000Km, only half of
what it is in the RS. This is attributed to the fact that the project areas under the Federation
historically were horticultural areas and were thus less in need for new capital investments at
farm level.

In relation to the year 2003 there have only been slight changes in the nature of livestock holding
by households. In the RS the number of dairy cows per household has gone up by some 15%, in
the Federation no change has been recorded. The number of sheep and goats per household has
generally diminished in the households of both, the RS and the Federation. Beekeeping has
significantly increased in both entities with the numbers of beehives going from 28 to 57 in the
federation and from 10 to 15 beehives in the RS. Poultry production in the Federation has
increased by some 12.5%, while it dropped by some 8% in the RS. Ownership of breeding sows
slightly diminished in the Federation while it grew by some 10% in the RS. Overall, excluding
bees, only a moderate change in livestock number per household can be observed.

Production in the project area, traditionally, does not take a big share in total agricultural
production in Eastern Herzegovina. In the RS, the recorded increase in the number of households
that have a greenhouse compared to the year of 2003 increased from 0.1% in 2003 to 4.1% in
2008. In addition, the average greenhouse size increased from 60 m2 to 97m2.

According to the survey, overall farm holdings in the RS in the project areas are substantially
larger than in the Federation. In addition, in the RS overall land area of farms has increased by
some to 22 percent, and the land under lease (non-existing in 2003) now represents nearly a third
of the total farm area. Surprisingly, in the Federation, the survey did not record any land leasing
thus farm sizes have remained largely the same.

Production systems analyzed in this study include irrigated and non-irrigated areas and systems of
production. In the RS, households in the sample have an average of 33.2 non-irrigated and 8.2
dunum irrigated land. Areas under irrigation, although small, have increased in comparison with
2003 by 49%. When it comes to the arable land without the pastures and meadows, an average
household cultivates (owned and rented) 8.6 dunum of arable land, 4.4 dunum of orchards and
one dunum of vineyard. In the Federation, some 60% of arable land in the project area is
irrigated, the rest is rain fed. On average farms have around 5 dunums of rain fed land and 5.9
dunums of irrigated land. Ninety percent of orchards are on irrigated land representing some 16%



                                                51
of the irrigable area, while 60% of the irrigated area is under horticultural crops. In 2008 some
75% of irrigable area was under higher value crops

In terms of marketing it was found that most producers sell their products on the market
spontaneously without prior agreement of sale and without prior information about the prices.
Previously agreed sales are present only sporadically and used by the producers of fruit and
vegetables and by cheese makers. Grading of products is most common with producers of fruits
and vegetables occurring in 60% of cases. Sharing or the joint marketing of products was reported
in only 4% of cases and when it happens it is mainly organized through cooperatives and
associations.

Regarding the choice of market most producers of vegetables market their products in Capljina
wholesale market, while producers of wine in 100% of the cases do not sell their products on the
market, i.e. they produce for their own needs. At the local market or market place, 45% of
producers sell their potatoes to local trader and 50% of onion producers also sell their products to
traders.

Marketable surplus measured for the main cash crops in main sample (project group) was highest
for onion (0% used for own consumption) and papers (15% used for own production) and little
less by potato where 35% of production is used for own consumption. Unfortunately non of
bigger wine producers was included in the random sample, so no market surplus is measured for
wine, although project report show that this production has made biggest progress in the project
period.

Some 50% of households used a source of credit for investment in agricultural production and
77% of them were users of micro credit. The investments are in most cases related to construction
of facilities for cattle breeding and supply of agricultural machinery.

Beekeepers were the main participants in training offered by the project (study tours, lectures and
demonstrations on the farm); 90% of respondents had attended one of the lectures. A very small
number of farmers participated on the study tours within or outside the country. However,
producers expressed the need for additional training in marketing, the introduction of good
practice and cooperation. Participation in the producer direct on-farm demonstrations of
technology was of 1-10% depending on which type of presented technology and the number of
farmers covered by the demonstration. Sixty per cent, and sometimes 100% of farmers adopted
new technology following participation in the demonstration.

Over seventy per cent of households have contributed financially to the construction of
irrigation/water supply systems, and those who participated, on average, invested 1.680KM and
about 30 days of work. Also, some 40% of households interviewed benefited from the new
irrigation system since 2003.

The general conclusion that can be drawn is that the project activities contributed to an increase in
production, reflecting its scope and intensity. Also, most producers gained knowledge about new
technologies and methods of production in certain areas of agriculture. The SSCADP also raised
awareness about the organization of producers in cooperatives and associations, marketing, good
producing practices, production technology. Through investments in irrigation SSCADP set the
basis for further expansion of agricultural production in this part of the RS. In this present report,
there is an explanation of some of the project activities in the field of fruit growing and
horticulture, viticulture and wine making, beekeeping and the production of milk.



                                                 52
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
All main project stakeholders including senior representatives from Ministry of Agriculture of
both entities, RS and Federation, project beneficiaries, in a joint inter entity project closing
workshop on Monday, June 01, 2009. The Meeting was held at the Hotel Leotard in the
municipality of Trebinje in the RS starting at 10:00 am to 17:00 in the afternoon including an
hour for lunch.

The workshop highlighted the project achievements in both entities and the good collaboration
between the RS and the Federation in the delivery of the project and as demonstrated by the high
level representation from the governments of both entities. Presentations were held on a number
of topics including;
      Irrigation rehabilitation activities completed under the project with testimonies of the
         WUA members and representatives of the Federation of Water users. Presentation
         included estimates by users of increase in production and land under cultivation.
      Credit related activities and presentation of investments from commercial credits and
         micro credits, including repayment rates and reporting from participating micro credit
         organizations.
      Activities under the grants program, including presentation of results of research and
         demonstration grants with testimony of grant beneficiaries and farmers and brief
         presentation of the young scientists about current activities and research in their
         respective positions.
      Presentation of activities related to FOs and reporting by elected representatives
      Presentation of supply chains development and quality enhancement activities.

The International M&E consultant also presented the preliminary results of the project closing
survey that had been undertaken in the Federation and the Republika Srpska. The main
conclusion was that beneficiaries had a largely positive assessment of the project impact in their
presentations, but that statistical data in part also due to the some lacunae in data collection did
not show substantial increase in incomes for farmers. It was also recognized that the survey
results were also negatively affected by the very short time since many of the investments under
the project had been concluded and therefore had no measurable impact on incomes or production
yet.

It was also agreed that further analysis would be conducted to refine the preliminary information
to help feed the economic analysis that is conducted as par to of project closing.

Working groups in accordance to project topics were formed among participants to discuss the
presentation and preliminary results. The discussions within the groups where then later presented
by a "raporteur" to the general audience at the workshop.

Closing remarks were held that focused on ensuring that lessons learned and impacts observed be
properly taken into account of policy makers and for the design of future projects.




                                                53
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(Combined summary from reports from both entities)

Development of cooperatives and the Association within the project areas was rated as very
important. It is evident that the producers created awareness of the need of organization and
cooperation, and has recorded a significant number of initiatives to establish new associations, as
well as new business activities within the existing associations and cooperatives. The project team
until the end of the project followed and supported the work of associations and cooperatives in
the agricultural sector, and actively worked to build their capacity in management, planning,
institutional and financial sustainability.

Activities of quality control implemented by the Project in sectors of beekeeping, vine making
and milk production give positive results in a sense of creating awareness of farmers on the need
for products quality monitoring and improvement, as one of key items in the development of
commercial and economically efficient production.

Commercial farmer development component is the most satisfactorily component of the project
which leads to direct conclusion that micro-credits, investment in irrigation and new technologies
demonstrations, showed the real need of the farmers, i.e. population within the project area.

Irrigation subcomponent has largely exceeded project goals and objectives. Totally, 275 km of
channels have been rehabilitated and cleaned. A combined 11.00 Km of new concrete canals
were completed in the two entities. Some 115 km of pipelines of various sizes have been laid
under the project.

30 WUAs have been established in the project area including 2 WUAs Unions. Membership of
WUAs has increased by 18% in comparison with 2007, and by 80% in comparison with 2006,
which leads to significantly better sustainability of WUAs. They all have made documents to
regulate charge for use of the systems, i.e. water, so most of the systems ensured coverage of
costs of operation. There is still problem in collection of water fees for use of water from big
systems since there was traditional of using water free of charge.

The evaluation activities have been implemented for final effects of the project and achievement
of objectives set up by PAD. In this sense, all indicators show a great improvement compared to
the start of project implementation, and many activities undertaken and initiated under this
project serve more than a good basis for continued development of the whole region.

BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

        Borrower performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory. Project
preparation was supported by the WB technical assistance.

        Borrower implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory. Regardless of the fact that
during the life of the Project there have been changes in line ministers generally the support to the
Project objectives and goals from the line Ministry remained strong.
The project was under the scope of annual financial audit, delivered by the Price-Water-House-
Coopers, during the whole life of the Project. All Management Letters were with an unqualified
opinion.


                                                 54
Regarding procurement, the regular surveys (prior and post reviews) did not show any material
errors, and represented procurement activities were generally in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines and procedures.

BANK'S PERFORMANCE

        Bank performance during project preparation is considered Satisfactory. During the
preparation, Project WB consulting team together with representatives of the Ministry and
outlined project objectives and the design of the Project.

        Bank performance during project supervision is considered Satisfactory. The project was
supervised by Bank staff and consultants located at Headquarters in Washington and in Sarajevo
Resident Mission. During supervision missions Bank staff thoroughly reviewed and carefully
analyzed all issues that appeared in the implementation of certain activities and provided
solutions/advices for overcoming challenges and/or problems. Bank staff, particularly in the
Resident Mission, provided close support for many aspects of project implementation, mostly for
procurement and financial issues. Bank staff coordinated well with other organizations and
donors, especially with USAID, GTZ, and European Union. Bank's leverage and involvement in
all processes during implementation was crucial for the achievement of outputs defined in PAD
project objectives.

LEASONS LEARNED

         Lessons learned, one that can be generally applied and which are largely relevant for
similar projects in the state are:
          Adequate staffing for project management, monitoring and evaluation: This is
most important lesson we have learnt during the life of the Project. One idea for consideration is
that, before starting with investment projects in a country, the Bank should consider an option to
provide for the organization and provision of specific training courses for staff, identified by
respective authorities that would be involved in project implementation. Training courses would
be organized specifically for project management, WB procedures and requirements, procurement,
financial management, etc.

          Strengthening procurement and financial management capacities of implementing
agency are essential to overcome possible problems:
Development and installation of financial accounting software at the beginning of project
implementation is also very important step since it's very difficult to have good quality financial
work (accounting and reporting) without it. Internal control procedures have to be established at
the beginning of the Project implementation.

       Detailed project implementation plan have to be developed before project
implementation starts: Equivalent to BHP Project Operational Manual which proved to be very
good tool for project planning, monitoring and evaluation, each Bank's project in future should
have similar document. All technical specifications, TORs, detailed procurement plan, detailed
budget with chart of accounts, etc. that are relevant for project implementation should be
developed in advance.

         Donors and other partners with their financial support have to be identified before
project implementation starts: Government and Bank would put in future much stronger
emphasis on creating a strategy for attracting possible donors to take a part in the financing of a
project.


                                                55
         Project Steering Commitee proved to be a good solution in key situation in the Project.
It would be a good solution to establish the Steering Committee in the realization of the new
Project.

        Development of thrust and ownership feeling. In all Projects in which fulfillment of
development objectives requires wide consultation process on local level, establishment of field
offices in Project Area is strongly recommended. This approach eases and accelerates direct
communication, strengthens thrust and ownership feeling in all stakeholders.
In order to strengthen ownership and transparency feeling, it is also recommended to involve
representatives of all stakeholders in all phases of Project implementation (creation of design of
Project solutions, definition of clear criteria for selection of project solutions, bid evaluation,
supervision of execution of works, etc).

Develop processes for Project Implementation:

    Water User Associations (WUA)
    1. Consider specific characteristics of each area and its requirements/demands, and on such
        basis prepare packages for construction and other types of works;
    2. Preparation of appropriate and accurate bidding documents;
    3. Contracts to be grouped per irrigation zones and supervision requirements;
    4. Prior to any irrigation rehabilitation works it is necessary to establish implementation
        arrangements;
    5. Facilitate prior consultations with local authorities (municipalities and cantons, where
        applicable) and offices of "Vodoprivreda" (Water Management). The principle that Water
        Management is significant issue is adopted and it is necessary to determine-finalize
        models for effective implementation including contracting with local organizations. All
        details have been developed during the first six months of project implementation in a
        way that arrangements are established prior to initiation of any construction works. In
        that state, prior to initiation of rehabilitation works, it will be necessary to sign a
        Contracts and confirm the commitment of water users groups, municipalities and other
        participants;
    6. Determine the approach to be used related to the establishment of Water Users
        Associations. Existing Water Users Associations were interested in renewal of their
        activities after the system is rehabilitated in order to ensure reliable water supply. With
        technical assistance WUAs should be able to take-over more responsible role than the
        one they had in the past. Its ensuring is the main characteristic of support for Water Users
        Associations;
    7. Additional effort on re-establishment of water fees/charges is required. Water
        fees/charges have to be established to ensure adequate work and maintenance of the
        system;
    8. In inception phases of the implementation, conduct consultations and clarify details of
        each aspect of irrigation component to those participants which are directly interested in
        irrigation development. Discuss all issues related to implementation arrangements,
        subcomponents, clarify project approach, supporting studies and training issues;
    9. Any interventions must proceed only after the WUA has been formed and clear
        agreement has been reached, in writing, on who will be the beneficiary farming families;
    10. Agreement must be in writing with the municipality on the ownership of the ponds and
        who will be the beneficiary farming families;




                                                56
   11. A detailed cadastral maps should be prepared showing the locations of the ponds, the
       land to be irrigated (by individual farming plot) and the alignment for the water
       conveyance system (pipe);
   12. The number of farm families to be involved must be realistically related to the volume of
       stored water;
   13. Agreement should be made in writing with any farmers who will be affected by the
       works (collection, storage, conveyance) and who will not benefit from them to ensure
       that way leaves and rights of way have been established;
   14. The choice of construction material must be carefully considered and discussed with the
       WUAs together with detailed construction techniques;
   15. The Map giving the overall layout of the system (pond, conveyance, irrigated lands) must
       show in red the individual boundaries of the plots to be irrigated and that this forms the
       legal basis for future operation of the system;
   16. The WUA must show that it has membership, statutes, fees and a system for managing
       the WUA and for taking care of future O&M. It will not be sufficient to say that this will
       come later;
   17. The WUA must prepare, at their cost, a concept paper giving the above arrangements, an
       outline design of the system and an estimate of the cost. This should include details of
       what the farmers will be providing for their own individual parts of the system. Also
       included will be the arrangements for sharing the water and for meeting routine and
       unexpected operation and maintenance costs.

   Cooperatives
   1. In initial state of cooperative establishment it is very important to immediately establish
      accounting system which specifies whether their business is sustainable or not, i.e. to be
      able to continuously monitor how much the cooperative is 'strong' or 'fragile';
   2. Cooperatives were successful as much as they were able to expand their business
      activities;
   3. It is crucial that the organization of cooperative and its management have the capacity to
      execute future tasks which will be necessary for their survival and prosperity;
   4. Timely provision of good advice from the aspect of management and organization of
      farmer organizations (so they can become fully operational), is more important for their
      development than the financial support;
   5. Due to war activities, establishment of any form of farmer organization is much more
      difficult in B&H than in neighboring countries;
   6. There is a lack of thrust within local communities, especially when different ethnic
      groups are involved;
   7. Key obstacles  challenges we encountered were:
          a) Issue of building thrust;
          b) Too much focus on possible financial support from the Project. They have to go
              through significant organization process (group cohesion and members activity)
              prior to applying to any financial support of the Project.

Competitive Grant Program
   1. Joint work of the Committee on development and implementation of Competitive Grant
       Program in order to increase competitiveness of B&H agriculture has shown as a good
       solution;
   2. It is necessary first to achieve wide consensus of all main participants through
       consultation process (including representatives of ministries, farmer organizations,
       NGOs and scientific community) in a sense of purpose, structure and activities of the
       Competitive Grant Program component.


                                              57
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


The project did not benefit from co-financing or formal parallel financing. However, a number of
activities where closely coordinated with other donors that begun working in the region. This
includes coordination with the Spanish Office of Technical Cooperation that provided
significant support in the rehabilitation of irrigation systems in the Popovo Polje. Coordination of
efforts with the Italian NGO CEFA supporting among other things, the honey sector in the
Trebinje area. USAID LAMP program in Caplijna with the development of business plans for
some of the FOs and farmer groups. A close cooperation was established with the Swiss funded
program supporting horticulture implemented by GTZ that supported cooperatives in the Caplijna
area with advice training and support for business planning for some of the FOs under the project.




                                                58
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


In addition to field visits, the preparation of this ICR was complemented by Project preparation
reports including;
      Social Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment, Sector background report from
         USAID SEED project, ICR of the previous emergency agriculture support project,etc..
     Marketing Supply Chain Study,
     Review of FO and Cooperative Performance
     Project Information Document, Project Appraisal Document,
     Aide Memoires, ISRs, Letters to the Entity Governments
     Status Reports from PIU and APCU
     Project Closing Survey




                                               59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33375R


                                                     B O S N I A A N D H E R Z E GO V I N A
                                                         SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS

                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   RAILROADS

                                                         MAIN RIVERS                                                                                                        DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES

                                                                                                                                                                            MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                        To Zagreb
                    16E                                                  17E           To Bjelovar                                          18E                                                         19E
                                                                                                                                                                               To Osijek

                                                                                                       CROATIA
  To                                                       Un a
Karlovac                                                                     
                                                              Bosanska Gradiska                                                 Sa             Bosanski Brod
                                            Bosanska Novi                  
                                                                (Srp. Gradiska)                                                      va
                                                                                                                                                 (Srp.Brod)                                                                                 To Belgrade
                                            (Novi Grad)


                                                                                                           as
 45N                                                   Prijedor                                                                                                                                                                                                  45N

                                                                                                        Vbr
                  Cazin                                                                                                       Derventa
                                                                                                                              Derventa
                                                                                                                              Derventa
                                                                                                                                                             sna                                                                                 Sava




                                                                                                                                                        Bo
                                Bosanska                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                            Brcko
                  Bihac         Krupa
                                                                                 Banja




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                           Sanski Most                            Luka                                                                                                                            Bijeljina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Drin
                                                                                                                                                              Gracanica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Belgrade
      To                                                     S
   Sveti Rok           U
                                                             an
                       na




                                                               a




                                      Bosanski                                                               Varo
                                                                                                       Kotor Varos
                                                                                                                 s
                                      Petrovac
                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                              Teslic
                                                                                                                              Teslic
                                                                                                                                                                                        Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                        Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                  Kljuc
                                                                                                                                                       Maglaj
                                                                             REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
 CROATIA
                                                                                                                     ^
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Spreca
  To Medak                                 Drvar
                                            rvar
                                           Drvar                                                             
                                                                                                        Vlasic Mts.                                           Kri
                                                                                                                                                                    va
                                                                                                                                                                       ja                                                                         To Valjevo
                                                                                              Jajce
                                                                                                                      Travnik
                                                                                                                      Travnik
                                                                                                                                     Zenica
                                      D




 To Obrovac                                                                                                                                                                         Kladanj
                                                                                                                                                                                              Vlasenica
                                                                                                                                                                            Vare
                                                                                                                                                                            Vares
                                                                                                                                                                                s
                                          i
                                          i
                                          i




                                                                                              Vr




                                                                                                  s                                            Bosna
                                                                                                ba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Srebrenica
                                             n




                                                                                                          Bugojno                                            Visoko
                                                                                                                                                             Visoko                                  REPUBLIKA
                                                   a




 44N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D ri                      44N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            na
                                                                                                FEDERATION OF                                                                                         SRPSKA
                                                     r
                                                     r
                                                     r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Kraljevo
                                                        iii




    To
   Zadar                                                                                         BOSNIA AND                                             SARAJEVO
                                                            c
                                                            c
                                                            c




                                                                    Livno                                                                                                                  Pale
                                                                                                HERZEGOVINA                               ^                                                                            Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Visegrad
                                                                                                                               Jablanicko
                                                                                                                                 jezero
                                                                      A
                                                                      A
                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gorazde
                                                                                                            Jablanica                          Konjic                                                                                       im
                                                                            lll




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Sjenica
                                                                                                                                                 Ne
                                                                              p
                                                                              p
                                                                              p




                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                          Foca
                                                                                                                                                    retv




                                                                                                                                                                                        (Srbinje)
                                                                                   s




                                                                                                                                                         a




                                                                                                                         Mostar



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ra
                                                                                                                                                                              Gacko
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Piv




                                                                                                                                     Stolac
                                                                                                                                                                                                              a




 43N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43N


                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                     Bileca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                             Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                             Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Podgorica

             BOSNIA and
           HERZEGOVINA                                                      Ad r iat i c                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                    To Shkodr



                                                                                     0       10        20       30       40      50 Kilometers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALBANIA
                                                                                     0            10             20             30 Miles


                16E                                                      17E                                                                 18E                                                               19E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JULY 2006
