Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3058-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
May 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             = Tunisian Dinar (D)
Tunisian milliames 1,000 = D 1.000
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating.
The rate used in the President's and Staff Appraisal
Reports, which approximates the current rate, is:
US$ 1.00    = D 0.400
D 1.000     = US$ 2.50
D 1 million = US$ 2.5 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square kilometer (k.2)    = 0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)           = 35.315 cubic foot (cu ft)
1 metric ton (t) (1,000 kg) = 1.10 short ton (sh ton)
0 0.985 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilowatt (kW)              = 1,000 watts
1 Megawatt (mw)              = 1,000 kW
1 kilowatthour (kWh)          = 1,000 watthours
1 Gigawatthour (GWh)         = 1 million kWh
1 kilovolt (kV)              = 1,000 volts
1 toe                        = 1 ton of oil equivalent (10.200 x 103 kcal)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ETAP                            Entreprise Tunisienne d'Acti.vites-
Petroliares
LPG                           = Liquified Petroleum Gas
NASA                            National Aeronautics and Space
Administration
SOTEaI                       = Societe Tunisienne d'Expansion
Miniere
SNDP                         = Soci6te Nationale de Distribution
de Petrole
STEG                         = Socifte Tunisienne de l'Electricite
et du Gaz
STIR                            Socifte Tunisienne des Industries de
Raffinage



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG)
Guarantor:               The Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                  US$41.5 million equivalent
Terms:                    17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at
9.6 percent per annum
Project Description;    The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the
first three years of a five year program for the
development of rural electrification and in rehabili-
tating the urban distribution systems. The project
will connect about 990 villages in 15 Governorates to
the national network and improve the supply of elec-
tricity in about 60 towns. The project consists of
the following components: (i) supply and erection of
about 3,130 km (2,460 km for rural electrification and
670 km for urban distribution) of medium tension and
2,840 km (2,060 km rural, and 780 km urban) of low
tension lines; (ii) supply and installation of about
1,290 transformers for a total capacity of 62 MVA (32
MVA rural and 30 MVA urban); (iii) provision of equip-
ment and tools for implementing the urban rehabilita-
tion component; and (iv) provision of technical assis-
tance for training, and a study for strengthening the
power distribution system in Tunis. The project, when
completed, will extend electricity services to about
30,400 new domestic rural customers, 2,100 pumping
stations and 300 commercial and small industrial con-
sumers, and improve the quality of service to more
than 150,000 existing urban consumers. In addition to
implementing the least cost program for rural electri-
fication, and to improving the operating efficiency of
the system, the project will follow up previous Bank
efforts in rationalizing energy pricing policies. No
special implementation risk is foreseen.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs;                                      Local        For2ein   Total
-------US  (million)…---
Rural Electrification
Electrical Plant                              3.6          14.3      17.9
Installation and Erection                     9.3           0.3       9.6
Construction Supervision                    6.0            -        6.0
Subtotal                               18.9           14.6      33.5
Urban Rehabilitation
Electrical Plant                              2.4           9.3      11.7
Installation and Erection                     5.8           0.2       6.0
Construction Supervision                    3.9            -        3.9
Subtotal                               12.1            9.5      21.6
Equipment and Tools                                 3.3           6.3       9.6
Technical Assistance                                1.9           0.9       2.8
Base Cost                              36.2           31.3      67.5
Physical Contingencies                             4.5            3.7       8.2
Price Contingencies                                 7.4           6.5      13.9
Total Project Cost                                48.1 /1        41.5      89.6
Financing Plan:                                       Local        Foreign   Total
------…Us$ (million)-------
IBRD                                               --            41.5      41.5
STEG Cash Generation                              15.2           --        15.2
Government                                        28.2           --        28.2
Customers' Contribution                            4.7           --         4.7
Total                                             48.1           41.5      89.6
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
----------US$ (mil Iioi7…----
Annual                                       4.0   13.2   11.8    9.0    3.5
Cumulative                                   4.0   17.2   29.0   38.0   41.5
Rate of Return:           11.6 percent
Appraisal Report:         No. 3337-TUN, dated April 22, 1981
/1 Includes about $5 million in custom duties and import taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONsTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORb ON A PROPOsED LOAN
TO sOCIETE TUNIsIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$41.5 million to Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG) with the guarantee of the Government of
Tunisia for a Third Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I; present economic projections
are provisional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on
the future of domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic
policies that will be adopted for the sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.       Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of
it is arid or semi-arid. The limited areas where dry-land agriculture is
possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall. The
adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by expanding irri-
gation. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum,
and natural gas; however, the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are
small, and phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality. There is
considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been made to develop it
rapidly over the last decade.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive
effort towards development of its human resources, paying special attention
to education and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a
result, the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the
time of independence to 55 percent by 1980; the health and nutrition status
of the population improved, average calorie supply per capita increased
from about 80 to 112 percent of requirements, and life expectancy at birth
increased from about 48 years in 1960 to 57 years in 1978.
5.       Tunisia's economy depends on rural activities to provide employ-
ment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide foreign exchange
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from that in President's Report No.
P-2998-TUN of March 26, 1981 for a Small Scale Industry Development
Project.



- 2-
earnings. Manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in both respects.
The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversified economic
structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most pressing
social problem), Tunisia remains an agricultural economy, with the rural
sector providing work for about one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction, phos-
phate mining and tourism are small, although these sectors make a vital
contribution to GDP, public revenues, savings and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange earn-
ings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another 43
percent.
The Main Economic Sectors in 1979
(in percent)
GDP /1    Employment   Exports /2
Agriculture                                   16.2           35.0          6.8
Energy/Mining                                 12.1            1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                 12.1           21.8         22.5
Tourism                                        4.8            1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                     41.2           25.4         13.4
Government Administration                     13.6           14.5        _
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1 At factor cost.
/2 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP,
in constant prices, increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from
1976 to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth
rate for the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the
entire decade 1969-79 places it among the top 10 middle-income countries;
it also marks a substantial improvement over the relatively low growth
(4 percent per annum) experienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached
$1,120 in 1979, which, in constant prices, is about 73 percent above the
1969 level.
7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely
attributable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning
of this period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate
production, reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together
with favorable weather conditions, resulted in a near doubling of produc-
tion, a remarkable turn-around from the slow, but continuous, decline in
agricultural production during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the



- 3 -
degree of Government control declined, and more incentives were given to
private initiative. An increasingly export-oriented investment strategy,
coupled with a dynamic marketing effort, led to a rapid growth of produc-
tion, particularly in textiles, while tourism was promoted with marked
success.
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite
different, not so much in terms of overall growth (which slowed down
slightly), as in terms of the underlying growth factors: output in agri-
culture has virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad
weather conditions; textile production declined in 1978, and tourism
development slowed down because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist
market. By contrast, petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phos-
phate processing expanded making these two sectors the main engine of
economic growth over the 1976-79 period. After an exceptional low level in
1976, oil production increased by over 12 percent per annum up to 1979;
more important, however, were the large profits reaped by Tunisia from the
successive increases in crude oil prices, starting in 1974. These large
additional foreign exchange earnings enabled the country to increase its
investments, from an average of slightly over 20 percent of GDP before
1975, to nearly 29 percent thereafter, and expand its public services at a
rapid rate. These two factors, in turn, triggered a rapid growth in the
construction industry and in local manufacturing of construction materials.
9.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particu-
larly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favor-
able. Even in constant prices, exports grew marginally faster than
imports. In addition, the terms of trade improved significantly, due to
higher export prices for oil and low import prices for grain. As a result,
the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed
on average over 72 percent of the greatly increased investment effort. The
current account deficit of $500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily
financed: grant aid and private investments accounted for about 30 per-
cent, while the remainder was covered by long-term foreign borrowing. The
increase in lending to Tunisia from public sources allowed it to reduce
borrowing from financial markets and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s,
therefore, total foreign debt disbursed increased little relative to GDP
and the debt service ratio improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange
reserves increased in seven out of the last ten years, but still repre-
sented only 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources. General budgetary
revenues were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of
total government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance
situation has led to a fast increase in subsidy payments to private con-
sumers and public enterprises. Such transfers have nearly doubled over the
last four years, accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays,
or 4 percent of GDP. This level of subsidies, to cover the increasing



- 4 -
operational deficits of public enterprises may not be sustainable in the
long term; similarly, consumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to
concentrate more systematically on the needy.
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national,
are likely to exceed Plan targets. The Government welcomes this shift from
large capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale
industries as a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden
unemployment is currently considered the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy. During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy
could only absorb three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this, and
of the fact that migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the
overall unemployment and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and
25 percent, has not declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently in preparation.
Employment generation, food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth in the
three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and
south) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for over-
all economic growth during this period and beyond, will depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known reserves,
it is generally expected that oil production will decline after 1981 from
its present level of 5-6 million tons per annum and will come to an end
during the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the smaller
fields that may soon become profitable will not delay the declining produc-
tion trend by more than a few years. bome off-shore fields cannot be
exploited for the time being, because they are located in areas disputed by
Libya.  Gas production in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil
equivalent--toe--in 1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from
the Algerian/Italian pipeline will provide an additional supply of natural
gas, rising from 200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and there-
after. Negotiations with Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities
of natural gas are proceeding, but have so far been inconclusive. The
Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the off-shore gas
field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal use of all
these resources is being studied with foreign assistance, within a compre-
hensive long-term policy framework.
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-
1980s will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can
be little doubt that--except in the unlikely case of large new oil



- 5 -
discoveries--Tunisia will face the consequences of a decline in oil and gas
production over the next 10-15 years, and become a net importer of hydro-
carbons, perhaps as early as 1987-88. The Government is fully aware of
these developments.  It agrees that the situation will require significant
policy changes in the near future and is analyzing the areas where these
changes will have to take place in the context of the preparation of the
sixth Plan. Unlike many other developing countries, however, Tunisia has
enough lead time to introduce these changes gradually until the mid-1980s.
This will reduce the associated economic and social strains, and should
avoid major balance-of-payments problems. Assuming that the necessary
measures will be implemented, it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP
growth of about 7 percent in constant prices, until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in demand management will thus be required to avoid
balance-of-payments difficulties and maintain satisfactory economic
growth. In the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget
expenditures will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy
policies, in particular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation.
Considering the complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy
system, and the impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and
on the standard of living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population
still living in absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the
system will be a difficult endeavor, but ought to be initiated without
delay. As part of this effort, the subsidies to public enterprises, to a
large extent stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased
out. In addition, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used
more effectively to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports,
and to stimulate savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to
keep labor cost increases in line with productivity increases, particularly
since Tunisia will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to
improve its competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports
of manufactured goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes,
however, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in
turn, will require a corresponding adjustment in the investment rate below
the present average of 29 percent of GDP, so as to maintain a manageable
spread between domestic savings and investments. More resources will have
to be allocated to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and
medium manufacturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem
and reduce income disparities, between rural and urban areas as well as
within each of these areas. While investments in education, health, hous-
ing and water supply will have to continue, they should be focussed more on
the most needy income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter),
and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.
Since independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the



-6 -
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 per-
cent of GDP is now devoted to social programs, although too many of the
benefits still accrue to the upper income groups. Education expenditures
rank first among budgetary outlays. The comprehensive education system
provides free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has
reached 100 percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary
education. The performance of the system, however, could be improved by:
(a) expanding vocational training programs and improving their relevance
and coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and
rural groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors, and nursing personnel and the
medical referal system is not properly functioning. As a result, the rural
poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies,
infant mortality is still high. So far health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine. To achieve better and faster results, the
Government is planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine
and nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing
situation. aubsidized housing, the cornerstore of public intervention, has
not reached the most needy groups. The housing demand from households
above the poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this
end, adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differen-
tials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as the tax
system and budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion
to focus on basic needs and poverty alleviation, with a view of abolishing
absolute poverty before the end of this century. Maintaining a low popu-
lation growth rate will be an important factor for a significant allevia-
tion of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds
was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the
1976-79 period, foreign loan commitments averaged about O670 million per
annum, two-thirds of which in the form of Official Development Assistance
(ODA--4450 million or some $75 per capita). About 70 percent of ODA
commitments came from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal
Republic of Germany and Canada, but also some oil-surplus countries, whose
contributions averaged about one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17
percent of total ODA was committed by the Bank Group, and some 13 percent
by other multilateral sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging
6.1 percent interest and 18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8



- 7 -
years. At the end of 1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at
about $2.9 billion, or one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent of
exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.8 percent in 1970.
Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s, but have
gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased activi-
ties in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. such investments have increased from less than
$20 million in 1969 to more than $100 million in 1976 and $165 million in
1979.
19.      The balance-of-payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, much will depend on the policy measures
initiated during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for
Tunisia to attempt to continue its policy of high investments and high
current social outlays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly
exist. The new Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware
of this danger and recognizes the need for change. Considering its long
record of prudent and skillful balance-of-payments and external debt
management, there is every reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and
implement the necessary reforms and, thus, will continue to remain credit-
worthy for future Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONs IN TUNISIA
20.      Between 1962 and March 31, 1981, Tunisia has received forty-one
Bank loans and eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $765.6 million
and $70.1 million (net of cancellations) of which fifteen loans and nine
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is
generally satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created
or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors
or subsectors.
21.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Govern-
ment efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced
growth and distribution of income among regions and income groups with
particular emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies
and investments; and (d) provide selective support for the development of
basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public services.
An important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authori-
ties in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through
missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Coopera-
tive Program and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The
Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the



- 8 -
mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the
projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the
extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
22.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, educa-
tion, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and
public transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commit-
ments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism
infrastructure has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 14 per-
cent of total commitments.
23.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its
efforts in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for eeonomic and
social development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional
integration and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between
urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment
creation and institution building. In addition to the proposed power
project, the lending program includes projects in various stages of
processing in the agricultural sector, in industry, highways, urban
development and health.
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macro-economic and sector base for our lending program;
it will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues
and policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country including appropriate interest
rate policies (paras. 12-14). Two major reports in 1980 on the mechanical
and electrical industries and on the social aspects of development provided
a better knowledge of the country's industrial development base and
prospects in these sub-sectors, and a better understanding of income
disparities by evaluating the Government's social policies aimed at poverty
alleviation. Future reports will include a review of pricing and subsidy
policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986), and of the
agricultural, education and training, urban and energy sectors.
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was
11 percent. The Bank's and IDA's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt by 1986 is expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and their share in
the debt service would increase to about 16 percent.
26.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), BDET (a
Tunisian development finance company), in Compagnie Financiere et
Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in tourism projects),
in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel development), in



- 9 -
Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium fluoride from
local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism
development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12.8 million,
as of March 31, 1981.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
27.      Hydrocarbons are the major source of energy in Tunisia, represent-
ing about 96 percent of the commercial energy market, of which 82 percent
is oil and 14 percent natural and associated gas. The country is a net
exporter of oil. It exports its total production of high quality crude
(5.7 million tons in 1980) and imports lower grade crude oil and petroleum
products (2.3 million tons in 1980) for local consumption. About 92 per-
cent of oil production is concentrated at two major fields--El Borma and
Ashtart--which are depleting rapidly and will cease production during the
1990s. Commercial gas production--mainly associated gas from these two
fields--peaked in 1980 to about 0.4 million tons oil equivalent (toe), but
supplies are expected to cease by the early 1990s. Given the estimated
consumption growth and the forecast decline in crude oil production,
Tunisia is expected to become a net importer of oil in the late 1980s or
early 1990s. Natural gas is expected to play a major role in meeting
Tunisia's medium-term energy requirements. In addition to the gas received
as transit fee from the intercontinental pipeline linking Algeria to Italy,
the Government has two options under review: (a) develop the Miskar gas
field (a major untapped reserve of about 32 million toe discovered in
1974); and (b) purchase gas from Algeria. A decision is however not
expected before completion of an overall study of energy resources and
pricing currently underway with UbAID assistance.
28.      Hydropower potential is small and amounts to 65 MW of which 29 MW
have already been developed and about 36 MW would be added with the comple-
tion of the Sidi balem multipurpose dam, a project assisted by the Bank for
the irrigation component (Loan 1431-TUN). The total requirements of coal
for the steel industry are imported. Tunisia has some small lignite depo-
sits and hot water springs and serious efforts are underway to assess and
test their potential as well as the potential of other nonconventional
sources of energy (e.g. biomass, agricultural wastes, wind). Exploitation
of these sources is not expected to have a significant impact on the sector
during this decade. Solar and nuclear energy have attracted a considerable
amount of interest. A number of studies and experimental activities (in-
cluding a pilot rural electrification project) are underway in the field of
solar energy with USAID and NASA assistance, and in the near future further
studies and demonstration projects on solar and aeolian energy would be
initiated with EEC assistance. As for nuclear energy, preliminary economic
and technical studies are under way, with the assistance of the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency, to determine the viability of a possible
first nuclear power plant.



- 10 -
Energy Supply and Demand
29.      Since 1971, total commercial energy consumption has increased on
average by about 10 percent per annum from 1.2 million toe to 2.8 million
toe in 1980. During the same period, crude oil and gas production
increased from 4.1 million toe to 6.1 million toe, allowing an increase in
net exports. However, because of the limited refining capacity and the
continued growth in demand, Tunisia's imports of petroleum products have
been increasing steadily (particularly gas oil and fuel oil), reaching 1.2
million tons in 1980. The power and industrial sectors currently consume
56 percent of total commercial energy (94 percent of fuel oil and 28 per-
cent of gas oil), the transport sector 34 percent, and commercial and
domestic users the remaining 10 percent.
Energy Pricing
30.      The major issue which confronts the Government is related to the
elaboration of an overall energy pricing strategy consistent with the
development of the sector and macroeconomic objectives. While domestic
prices for liquified petroleum gas (LPG) and gasoline exceed world market
prices, prices of middle distillates (kerosene and gas oil) and fuel oil
are sold at prices which are below their international levels, so as to
keep down the general price level and foster agricultural and industrial
development. At the end of 1980, the weighted average price of lighter
products (LPG and gasoline) was 182 percent of their border price ($610 per
ton compared to $335 per ton), the price of middle distillates and fuel oil
was 56 percent ($130 per ton compared to $232 per ton), and for all
petroleum products it was 76 percent ($185 per ton compared to $244 per
ton). Given the large quantities of middle distillates and fuel oil con-
sumed by the industry and power sectors, the net result of this pricing
policy has been a growing subsidy paid for the consumption of middle dis-
tillates and gas oil ($127 million in 1980). The Government is aware of
the problem and has decided to close the gap between the domestic and
border prices for petroleum products over a period of time. As a first
step, in January 1981, the price of fuel oil was increased by 46 percent,
gas oil by 20 percent, premium gasoline by 14 percent, and regular gasoline
by 9 percent. This price hike is expected to maintain the subsidies
extended to petroleum products in 1981 at about their 1980 levels. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the domestic selling
prices of petroleum products will be increased progressively to reach
international levels by January 1987 (Guarantee Agreement, bection 3.04).
sector Organization
31.      Tunisia's energy sector is managed by the Ministry of National
Economy through a number of state-owned (or controlled) enterprises. ETAP
(Entreprise Tunisienne d'Activites Petrolieres), coordinates oil explora-
tion and production activities--which are mostly carried out by multi-
national corporations--and imports petroleum products for local consump-
tion. STIR (boci6t6 Tunisienne des Industries de Raffinage), owns and



- 11. -
operates the Bizerte oil refinery. Distribution of petroleum products is
divided between the sNDP (Soci6tg Nationale de Distribution de Petrole)
which distributes about 40 percent of the refined products, and several
private firms with smaller shares of the market. bTEG (Societe Tunisienne
de l'Electricit6 et du Gaz) has the responsibility for public power genera-
tion and distribution and provides 86 percent of the country's requirements
in this sector. It is also in charge of distributing and marketing gas.
The Electricity bubsector
32.      Organization.  STEG's operations are decentralized in 23 dis-
tricts. Each district operates and maintains the system in its jurisdic-
tion, performs surveys and prepares the detailed engineering of new distri-
bution projects, supervises contractors working in its area, conducts meter
reading and distributes electricity bills. The head-office staff, in
addition to providing technical support to the districts, is responsible
for all other operational, administrative and financial matters. STEG's
staff, both in managerial and technical positions, and labor are of a high
standard and capable to conduct the company's activities. Training is a
built-in component in staff development programs. STEG's training center
at Khledia offers a variety of courses of various duration for skilled
labor and middle level technical and administrative personnel. Basic
training received in the center is generally followed by on-the-job train-
ing in Tunisia or abroad. In addition, various suppliers of electro-
mechanical equipment provide training to bTEG's personnel. The Bank has
also assisted STEG in meeting its training requirements: under Loans
815-TUN and 1431-TUN financing was provided for training in accounting,
inventory control, billing and data processing. Further development of
training activities is being considered in STEG's 1982-1986 development
program, and assistance would be provided through the proposed project
(para. 39). During negotiations STEG agreed that it will furnish to the
Bank for its approval the proposed training program (Loan Agreement,
section 3.03).
33.      Recent Developments in the Electricity System.  STEG currently
operates four steam power plants (550 MW), four hydro plants (29 MW), seven
combustion turbine plants (320 MW) and some small diesel plants amounting
to a total of 15 MW. Except for some of the diesel stations located in
isolated areas, the generating stations are interconnected. The main
transmission system operates at 225-kV with a 150-kV ring around Tunis, and
150-kV and 90-kV secondary branches. The total length of this system is
about 2,210 km. The medium and low voltage distribution lines have a
length of about 9,960 km and about 12,000 km respectively. Between 1970
and 1980, peak demand increased at an average annual rate of 13 percent,
generation of electricity and electricity sales 14 percent, and the number
of consumers 9 percent. In 1980, high-voltage consumers accounted for 21
percent of bTEG's total sales, medium-voltage consumers 46 percent, and
low-voltage consumers the remaining 33 percent, of which domestic consumers



- 12 -
accounted for 27 percent. In the same year the level of electrification
was: urban areas 87 percent; rural conglomerations 31 percent; rural
dispersed areas 4 percent. Between 1976 and 1980 the number of low-voltage
consumers in urban areas increased on the average by 48,000 per year, and
their average consumption by 12 percent per year. These high rates of
growth, together with the higher priority given to generation and trans-
mission, have rendered the urban distribution system inadequate to cope
with demand. The voltage drop in urban areas is double the maximum per-
missible level, and power failures in most urban load centers have become
very frequent. This low quality of service and the substantial losses
incurred by STEG have induced the corporation to give high priority to a
rehabilitation program of the urban distribution systems. The low level of
service in the rural areas has similarly prodded the Government to make a
special effort to extend electrification to these areas. During 1982-1986
the level of electrification of rural conglomerations is expected to double
(from 31 percent to 60 percent). This involves the connection of 65,000
new domestic consumers living in 1,650 villages, 4,600 new surface and deep
wells for potable water and irrigation, and 500 small industrial and com-
mercial consumers. STEG will be the executing agency of the rural electri-
fication development program and will contribute 30 percent to its financ-
ing, with the balance being provided by the Government (60 percent) and
customers' contributions (10 percent).
34.      STEG's Development Program.  STEG's five year development program
(1982-86) coincides with and forms part of Tunisia's Sixth Development
Plan. This development program would comprise: (i) the construction of a
steam generating plant at Rades (4 x 150 MW units) and several combustion
turbines for peaking capacity; (ii) the expansion of the transmission and
sub-transmission network (completion of the 225-kV loop and reinforcement
of the 30-kV line around Tunis, construction of a new 150-kV line to con-
nect Kasserine to the grid); (iii) extension and reinforcement of the rural
and urban distribution networks; (iv) installation of a dispatching center;
and (v) construction of a testing and measurement laboratory and expansion
of STEG's training center. The total cost of the program is currently
estimated at $1,057 million, of which $739 million would be in foreign
exchange. Although financing for the whole program is still to be firmed
up, there are indications that it would be available from international
lending institutions, bilateral aid agencies, and suppliers' credit.
35.      Electricity Tariffs.  Tariffs are proposed by STEG and implemented
after Government approval. Since 1976, STEG's tariff proposals have been
based on the principle of long-run marginal cost. However, the level of
the tariff applicable to each category of consumers is determined by the
Government, taking into consideration other socio-economic factors. Thus,
tariffs have been set on the average below their long-run marginal cost,
while cross-subsidization among customer categories also takes place. In
addition, all customers receive an implicit subsidy stemming from the sub-
sidized fuels used for power generation. The total amount of these sub-
sidies in 1980 was estimated at about $54 million. In the past, because of
delays in Government approval of the tariff increases requested by STEG,



- 13 -
the company has suffered revenue losses. In order to avoid a recurrence of
income losses by STEG because of delays in implementing the required tariff
increase, it was agreed during negotiations that electricity tariffs shall
be revised whenever fuel price increases are considered, and new tariffs,
adequate to recover the increased fuel bill paid by STEG, shall be imple-
mented as soon as possible and in any case not later than two months after
the new fuel prices become effective (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04;
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Bank Role in the Energy Sector
36.      Since 1971, the Bank has supported the development of Tunisia's
energy resources, through four operations in the sector. The first project
helped finance a gas pipeline through a loan of $7.5 million (Loan 724-TUN)
in 1971. A second loan of $12 million (Loan 815-TUN) was made in 1972 to
help finance 2 x 30 MW combustion turbines, expansion of the transmission
and distribution systems, consulting services, and training. Both projects
were successfully completed with relatively small delays (about 5 months).
The Project Performance Audit Reports (Nos. 1078 and 2521) noted the
catalytic efrect of the projects in many areas, includinp qTEG's improved
financial performance and technical capability, and concluded that the
projects were successful (the audit rate of return, in both cases, was sub-
stantially higher than that anticipated at appraisal) and effective in
making STEG a well organized and efficient utility. No major problems were
encountered during project implementation. A third loan of $14.5 million
(Loan 1355-TUN) was made in 1977 to help finance the foreign exchange cost
of 7 additional combustion turbines. In June 1980 the Bank approved a
fourth loan of $37.0 million (Loan 1864-TUN) to help finance the first
phase of a gas distribution pipeline. The Bank's continued involvement in
the power subsector has been instrumental in strengthening STEG's opera-
tions and management. The corporation has developed its technical
capabilities to levels which are comparable to those of similar institu-
tions in developed countries. In addition, STEG has been able to achieve a
satisfactory financial position. The continuation of the Bank's involve-
ment in the energy sector, and the electricity subsector in particular,
would further strengthen the institution building efforts, improve tech-
nical standards, preserve STEG's sound financial position, and achieve
overall coordination of energy pricing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      During 1979-1980 and in anticipation of the country's Sixth
Development Plan, STEG through its district offices, compiled information
relating to rural Tunisia. On the basis of this information and following
the methodology used by TECSULT International Limited (Canadian consul-
tants) who prepared a rural electrification study for the previous Develop-
ment Plan, STEG prepared a program for the development of the rural distri-
bution system. This program has been reviewed by the Bank and would
represent the least-cost alternative for extending electricity service to
the beneficiaries. The urban rehabilitation component was similarly



- 14 -
prepared by STEG through measurements on sample lines, whose values were
used to estimate the physical quantities of material and associated costs
for implementing the rehabilitation of the system. The proposed project
was appraised by the Bank in October/November 1980. The Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Tunisia - Third Power Project" (No. 3337-TUN, dated
April 22, 1981) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in April 1981. The delegation from STEG and Government
was led by Messrs. Salah Jebali, President, Director General of STEG, and
Tahar Ennaifer, Chief of the Department of Energy at the Ministry of Plan-
ning and Finance. The main features of the loan and project are listed in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
38.      The proposed project aims at extending electricity service in the
rural areas and improving the quality of service to urban customers. About
30,400 new domestic customers, 2,100 pumping stations and 300 commercial
and small industrial consumers in rural areas will be connected to the
national grid, and about 150,000 urban customers will benefit from the
improved quality and reliability of the service. The project will help
implement the least-cost program for rural electrification, improve operat-
ing efficiency by reducing system losses, continue the Bank's efforts in
assisting STEG to improve its technical competence by providing financing
for equipment, tools, and training, and follow up on the efforts started
under a previous Bank loan to the energy sector (1864-TUN) in rationalizing
pricing policies.
Project Description
39.      The proposed project consists of the first three years (1982-1984)
of STEG's five-year program (1982-1986) for the development of the rural
and urban distribution systems and comprises the following components:
(i)  Rural Electrification.  About 200 km of three-phase medium voltage
lines, 2,260 km of single-phase medium voltage lines, and 2,060 km
of single-phase low voltage lines will be erected, and about 1,140
transformers (for a total estimated capacity of about 32 MVA) will
be installed to extend electricity service to about 990 villages
in 15 Governorates.
(ii)  Urban Rehabilitation.  About 670 km of three-phase medium voltage
lines and 780 km of single-phase low voltage lines will be
erected, and about 150 transformers (with an estimated total
capacity of 30 MVA) will be installed to strengthen the
distribution systems in about 60 urban centers.
(iii)  Equipment and Tools.  Construction, erection, testing and
laboratory equipment and tools will be provided to enable STEG to
implement the urban rehabilitation component and improve its
technical capabilities.



- 15 -
(iv)  Technical Assistance.  About 50 man-monEhs of consulting services
will be provided for a study of the distribution system of Tunis
aiming at determining the least-cost long-term development of the
city's distribution system, improving the quality of service, and
reducing system losses. The project would also provide for
training of STEG's staff abroad (about 70 people for a total of
about 130 man-months).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
40.      The estimated cost of the project is D 35.9 million ($89.6 mil-
lion) of which D 16.6 million ($41.5 million) is in foreign exchange.
Interest during construction is estimated at $ 8.4 million. The proposed
$41.5 million Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange cost of the proj-
ect. All local costs ($48.1 million, including $5.1 million in custom
duties and taxes) would be covered by customers' contributions ($4.7 mil-
lion), STEG's internal cash generation ($15.2 million), and Government
contributions toward the rural electrification program ($28.2 million).
Physical contingencies have been calculated at 15 percent; price escalation
for local costs at 8 percent per year; and price contingencies for foreign
costs at 9 percent for 1981, 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent for
1983-84. Total costs of consulting services have been estimated at $11,600
per man-month (of which $10,000 per man-month in foreign exchange), includ-
ing all expenses. Costs for training have been estimated at $3,300 per
man-month.
Project Implementation
41.      The project will be implemented over four years.  Since the
distribution equipment and materials used by STEG, as well as typical
construction designs of distribution facilities are standardized, detailed
technical specifications are already available. In addition, STEG's pro-
curement procedures call for international competitive bidding and there-
fore specimens of tender documents are ready. STEG's district offices,
supported by headquarters, have already started detailed project design,
including topographic surveys. While these tasks will stretch into 1984,
detailed design relating to that portion of the project to be physically
implemented in 1982 will be completed by July 1981. Tender documents for
the procurement of equipment and materials are being prepared by STEG and
will be reviewed by the Bank in June 1981. Installation and erection works
will start in March 1982 and will be completed by June 1985. STEG will be
responsible for all aspects of project execution including installation and
erection supervision and progress monitoring and reporting.
Procurement and Disbursement
42.      Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines for procurement. Limited international tendering,
based on quotations from at least three suppliers, would be permitted for
minor quantities of distribution equipment and materials, testing equipment
and tools not exceeding $700,000 equivalent in total. A preference margin



- 16 -
of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the custom duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to responsive local manufacturers.
Installation, erection, and the associated civil works for the rural com-
ponent would be awarded to local contractors on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, while those for the urban component, which
involve works on live lines would be undertaken by STEG. Due to the geo-
graphical dispersion of the areas affected by the project, individual
construction and erection contracts would be small (not exceeding $100,000)
and, therefore, unlikely to attract foreign contractors. The proposed Bank
loan would be disbursed against (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of
directly imported or 80 percent of local expenditures of locally procured
equipment and materials for the electrical plant, of construction and erec-
tion equipment, testing equipment, and tools; and (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for consultants' services and training. The estimated
closing date would be December 31, 1985. The contract for the study of the
distribution system of Tunis, estimated at about $500,000 is expected to be
awarded in June-July 1981, and would be completed by September 1982. Terms
of reference for the study were reviewed and approved by the Bank and
proposals from a number of European and North American electric utility
companies are being evaluated.
STEG's Financial Performance
43.       Under the Loan Agreement of the Second Power Project (Loan 1355-
TUN) STEG was required to earn an annual rate of return of at least
8 percent on the current net value of its average fixed assets in service.
However, revaluation methods were not discussed with the Bank, nor did the
Bank insist on such revaluation since a high proportion of STEG's assets
had been recently added. In view of the accelerating inflation, STEG was
requested, and agreed, during negotiations, to revalue its assets annually
and compute the rate of return on such revalued assets. During negotia-
tions it was also agreed that STEG shall apply the methodology agreed under
Loan 1864-TUN--consisting of using the wholesale price index for Tunisia--
for revaluation purposes of its electricity assets (Loan Agreement, Section
5.05(d)(iii)).
44.      STEG achieved in the past rates of return on unrevalued elec-
tricity assets that have fallen short of the specified minimum 8
percent--they have varied between 7.5 percent in 1977 and 7.9 percent in
1980--mainly because of delays in Government approval of required tariff
increases. Nonetheless, STEG was able to finance from internally generated
funds (after servicing the debt and providing for working capital require-
ments) about 28 percent of its investment expenditures during 1977-1980.
Including customers' contributions the self-financing level for this period
was about 47 percent. While STEG has been able to maintain its total debt
within the limits specified under Loan 1355-TUN (a debt/equity ratio of
45:55), the corporation has borrowed heavily on the short-term market to
finance capital expenditures, and this has resulted in a tight liquidity
position. STEG's current liabilities consistently exceeded current assets
during the period 1977-1980, and the current ratio worsened from 0.83 in
1977 to 0.75 in 1980. To correct the situation, STEG's management is
making efforts to convert short-term loans into medium-term loans, and has
decided to restrict sale of water heaters on credit to domestic consumers.



- 17 -
45.      Between 1975 and 1979 accounts receivable increased at a yearly
rate of 29 percent and represented, at the end of 1979, 94 days of sales of
electricity. The bulk of the accounts receivable are arrears by state
enterprises (30.9 percent) and Government offices and municipalities (27
percent). One state enterprise alone (SOTEMI) owed STEG an overdue amount
of D 3.2 million at the end of 1979, while the Government departments
operating under the centralized state budget pay as a rule only about 80
percent of the year's estimated bills, because budget estimates for elec-
tricity consumption are unrealistic and do not reflect increases either in
consumption or power rates. The 1,iestion of overdue electricity bills by
state enterprises and Government departments has been seriously aadress.d
by STEG's management. Effective June 1980, the districts' chiefs were
empowered to cut off supply to delinquent consumers (domestic consumers and
private industries), follow-up very strictly on payments due by municipali-
ties, and participate in preparing the annual budget in respect of elec-
tricity consumption of Government offices. While these measures are
expected to have a positive impact on STEG's liquidity position, measures
need also be taken with regard to overdue bills by public enterprises.
STEG agreed, during negotiations, to maintain at all time accounts receiv-
able for electricity at a level not exceeding three months' sales (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.08). In addition, the Government and STEG indicated,
during negotiations, that efforts will be made to ensure that overdue pay-
ments for electricity consumption of state enterprises accumulated through
December 31, 1980 are settled by December 31, 1982.
46.      Appropriate targets for STEG's future financial performance need
to take into account (i) the objective to gradually eliminate subsidies
extended to petroleum products; (ii) the need for STEG to reach an appro-
priate rate of return on its electricity assets and a satisfactory self-
financing level after recovering all operating costs; and (iii) the level
of the tariff increases necessary to secure the above objectives. If
specific annual fuel prices are assumed in accordance with a phased program
for reaching parity with international oil prices by 1987 (para. 30), it is
estimated that the tariff increases needed for STEG to achieve an 8 percent
rate of return on revalued assets starting from 1982 would be well above
the increases realized in the past and above the levels that the market
could bear. Given STEG's high internal cash generation, its satisfactory
debt service coverage, and in order to encourage the Government to increase
domestic fuel prices, it was agreed, during negotiations, that, if the
average price of fuels used by STEG increases by at least 20 percent in any
given year, starting from 1982, the minimum rate of return would diminish
in those years from 8 percent to 6 percent (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05
(a) and (b)).
47.      Financial projections indicate that a 6 percent rate of return
from 1982 onward would provide a satisfactory internal cash generation--
35.5 percent of investment requirements--while an additional 13 percent
will be provided by customers' contributions and deposits, and 6 percent by
the Government. STEG's debt/equity and current ratios are expected to
improve from 43:57 and 0.75 at the end of 1980 to 35:65 and 0.93 in 1986.
Debt service coverage will remain above 1.5 through 1986. In order to



- 18 -
allow monitoring of STEG's earnings prospects, bTEG also agreed co prepare
and submit to the Bank and the Government, by October 31 of each year,
financial forecasts for the current and following years indicating the
underlying assumptions, the changes in tariffs, if any, required and the
measures proposed to produce the annual rate of return (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.05(c)).
48.      Under Loan 1355-TUN, the debt limitation requirements were
specified in the form of a debt/equity ratio. During negotiations it was
agreed to supersede it with a more conventional debt service coverage ratio
so as to bring it in line with the debt limitation covenant specified for
the gas operations under the Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project (Loan
1864-TUN). It was, therefore, agreed that STEG shall not incur any new
long-term debt, without prior Bank approval, unless its total debt service
coverage ratio related to electricity operations is at least 1.5 each year
(Loan Agreement, bection 5.06).
Audit Arrangements
49.      Under Loan 1355-TUN, STEG's financial statements are to be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted within 5
months after the end of each fiscal year. The present auditing arrange-
ments have generally proven satisfactory, although STEG encountered some
difficulties in the past to meet the agreed time schedule. Because of
overload in the computing department, audited accounts for 1979 were
received only in September 1980. Efforts are, however, being made to
correct the situation by allocating sufficient computer time to the finance
department. During negotiations, STEG agreed to repeat the existing audit
arrangements under the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, section 5.02).
Project Justification
50.      The project would help STEG implement the first three years of the
Government's Rural Electrification Program which is an important element
for developing the rural areas, one of the major objectives of the sixth
Development Plan currently under preparation (paras. 12 and 17). STEG has
evaluated various alternatives for the rural electrification program con-
cerning both the generation system (isolated units versus connection to the
grid) and types of transmission and distribution (voltage level and three-
phase versus single-phase). The analysis showed that all villages to be
electrified--and some already serviced by isolated generating units--
should be connected to the grid, since the break-even distance for isolated
systems was greater than the distance of these villages from the existing
grid. Regarding the distribution system, various technical alternatives
are currently being evaluated according to STEG's standardized procedures
which already ensure that the least-cost solution is adopted.
51.      The urban rehabilitation component of the project would ensure
that present suppressed demand for electricity and expected increases in
urban areas be met by strengthening the distribution system. Through the
rehabilitation program distribution losses are expected to be reduced by
about 30 percent. It is estimated that this reduction in distribution
losses would imply for STEG savings of about $l.9 million per year by 1986.



- 19 -
52.      The economic return for the rural electrification component alone
is estimated at 8.3 percent based on benefits which include revenues from
sales and connection charges and net fuel savings to rural customers, and
long run average incremental costs of electricity delivered to the rural
distribution network. Since the benefits of the urban rehabilitation com-
ponent cannot be separated from the benefits to accrue from the development
of STEG's urban distribution system, no rate of return could be calculated
for this component alone. The return on a time slice (1982-1984) of bTEG's
program for the development of its rural and urban distribution system is
taken as a proxy for the return of the Project. On this basis the economic
rate of return is estimated at 11.6 percent. This understates the real
return because the estimated benefits do not capture the entire surplus
accruing to the consumers. Given the high standard of STEG's management
capability and technical expertise, no special implementation risk is
foreseen.
Environmental Aspects
53.      The project has no adverse effects on the environment.  Possible
adverse aesthetic effects would be kept to a minimum by suitable routing of
overhead lines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and bTEG, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to
in the text, and listed in Section III of Annex III. There are no special
conditions of effectiveness.
55.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 4, 1981



-20-                                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE4)-
TOTAL            164.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      76.6                                 MOST RECENT          NDRTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..       360.0    1120.0                818.5                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     190.0       261.0      543.0                545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.2          5.1       6.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0         43.5      50.1                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0        31.0       37.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     55.0        67.0       78.0                598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3        46.2       42.6                 44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0       53.8                 52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2          3.8       3.6                  3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 Ic       1.9/c     2.0                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               *           3.8       3.9                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0          42.0      32.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0          15.0      12.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          3.4       2.2                  2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         29.2      73.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          8.0      18.0                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        98.0      126.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   80.0        88.0      112.0                103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0         57.0      73.0                 69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0         14.0      22.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0         20.0      15.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0         54.0       57.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                     148.0/d     135.0         ..                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        49.0      70.0                 62.5                     65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..                 82.9                    80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..       30.0                   ..                     79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                   ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0       5950.0    4800.0               4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..        730.0    1070.0               1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            373.0/e      410.0     439.0                635.5                    480.3
URBAN                               ..        280.0
RURAL                                ..       930.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         24.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          5.1 /f    6.0
URBAN                               ..          5.1 7f    5.8
RURAL                                ..         5.1 77    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         3.2 /f
URBAN                               ..          2.7 7      .
RURAL                                ..         3.6 7f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        24.0 /f
UR8AN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                ..         ..



- 21 -                                                     A-NNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL L'IMCATORS DATA SHErT
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (UEICHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
MIDDLE ENCOIt£
.OST RECENT           NORTh AFRICA 4           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADIUSTED eCROLLMKn RATIOS
PRIMART:      DAL                  66.0        100.0     100.0                  76.4                      99.7
MALE                  18.0       120.0      118.0                  92.2                    LO4.0
FEMALE                43.0        79.0       81.0                  59.9                     99.4
SECONIOLY:   TOTAL                 12.0         23.0      22.0                  33.3                      34.4
MALE                  19.0        33.0       28.0                  41.9                     33.5
MALE                   5.0        13.0       15.0                  24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T o0  SECONDAR'f)  24.0        12.0      17.0                    9.8                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER PATIO
PRIMART                            61.0         48.0      40.0                  39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         21.0      23.0                  25.1                      L4.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.5        24.0/f    53.0                   39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER fROUSAND
PO FULA?ION                        11.0         13.0     *18.3                  L5.3                     43.0
RADI  RECEIVELS pE  THOUSAND
POPUTIO.N                          40.0         74.0     138.0                 U39.6                    245.3
TV  CCEIVERS 8L THOUSAND
FOPULATION                          0.1         10.0      35.0                  29.0                     84.2
IWSPAMU (VWLY GZA.LL
MtBSST) CICULMAT%w P
lU8A    POPOUPTlow                   19.0          8.O      33.0                 22.2                      63.3
CT&  AMAL AluNA=  PU CAP..A  2.0                    ..        23                    2.
LA=   OR
L            PO     CtmUAw)        U37.9        121U4.    LS33.5                    .
r)141  ;ucSU)                       1.1          7.7       8.0                    .,                       2
AE2CDLS     (2U)                    96.0        49.8      43.0                  43.0                     37.1
7JIS  (uw)                         17.          21.0      24.0                  2.8                      23.3
TML                                  27.0         23.7      2D.7                   26.1                     31.5
MII                                  50.2         44.2        4.0                  47.4                     48.9
FEMALZ                                 3.3         3.6       4.0                    4.7                     14.0
ECONOlIC DEPCIDENCS RATIO                1.4         1.8        1.8                   1.9                      1.4
INCOIC DISTRIBUTION
PERCET or PRIVATE INCOM
PCrEXED Bt
NECET 5 PERCENT or HSOCOLDS           ..          ..      17.0
ESCEST 20 P2C=   0r NUDUSEIIoLDS    ..            ..      42.0
LVtUT 20  SCENT 0   OtuuOLDS         ..           ..       *.0
LOWUT 40 *cII  oF aOuSKIOLDS         ..           ..     1U.0
POVERTY TARiLCET  oUPS
ESTIMATED UASOLUE POVEtRTY INCOME
LEVIEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UIRBAN                                ..          ..     204.0                 562.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      97.0                 140.4                    L90. a
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBA N                                ..          ..     L93.0                 202.1                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     193.0                L22 .2                   332. 5
ESTIMATED POPULATION SELOll ABSOLU
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERLCENT)
URsAN                                ..           ..      20.0                  22.1
RURL                                 ..           ..      15.0                  33.1
Noc available
Not applIcable.
NOTES
he group averages for each indicator ar, pepu.oae'on-.±gbte  arittic 2ean.  Coverage of countries
enq the indicacors dpeends on availability of daca and La noc  nifors.
ib   Unless otherwise noced, data for :960 refer to any year between L959 and lf1; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971: and for Most Kecent lostlast, between 1974 ad 1978.
/c   Due to migration populaclon irowth rate is lover than rats of natural incrase; /d 1960-65 average;-
/a 1962. If 1966.
Most recent estinaca of CHP per capita is for L979. all other data are as of April. 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX T
- 22-                                                                         Page 3 of 6
DgIFgITIOci OF SOCiAL igiDICATORn
.tree:  Alnbogb  hb. dafa are dtne  fro  eo.r.  generlly  udge  tie metauthoritative an  reliable, it  h-Iod  en. he noted  hbat obey -y not be ine--
natioallycompenbl  beooae fIet  lad  ofetdrted dfItonio_   n                  tepo  naed by diffaree  contte  in  olIetng the darn.  Trhe data  e,  n
-tblee,cau  o   aoie  reeoyegioe  indicaca tred.,  ud  oaacei."tatit  eaJrr difference. batec  cverte
neci-conucl afiniite .     h. referenoe group data. th-vrgeaeppltoneiho                       rtmtcmn  foreal,th dicanort end abe. oely ee  at
leset  elf o  tie  oantree ina gocp bee data for that Indictr          the  opg  of Ltoaie  amngob  indinatore dpende on iha avilability of
data end ie not  eifo.-, caution moe be eoeriae  In reting  -vergn  of one indicator to anhn-bar .  -baevreer  only esefol in rempaiag tba velt
LAND AREA I tbouego  eq.i.)                                                                 ooltfnen  hI.cian - PopulaIonI            nd    by nae   ot p .e.titing pey-
Tota1 - To at aufac1 te   -oprielg Iand nea  and itleed          tontre.                     .,i-n  quaifmtd from     -edice  ehbc  at _nivarity level
Agricultural - Eai.   t  of  grio-ltural area utd temprail  cr permanetly                P.ntlati_ P ca  tIrao  PeeI-- - Populnte. divided by nmber of praetioieg
for    .. .rope  rat-ee  m-rt end kitche  gardeoo  to lie feltee; 1977 data.            nole and f_ce  gradute  uce  prcia  ere.ad aaeieta -                    eee
IOU? PER CAPITA (p1*) - GeP p-r -plo. eeimte  a  crrntmebe  price..  . ca-                 PgUteergeia   e     oa.uba   n   crl-Pplnn    tt
t                  t~~~uban, nod rua) divded by their repentln n.ae  et knepitat bade
onlate  by ese tonereio  gethd cc Worl  iao  Atlee (I977-79 baLe); 190,            avilable in publt an.d ppiuate gen-1 an            rieltad. bh-Pit.al and r-
1970.td =t7dat.                                                                           bobilitatiou..teoer,   npitale am  etabii.eh-te peemgtly etafte
by at 1eat on  phyefi-in. tetblihN-ete providlg priigope1ly oetedial
S3UIT  COaiSLNTION PER CAPITA - A.tue1 coauptiot of acomecie1 .oergy (t.el                   tar  ar- o1nidd            ua   eptl,beea,ioaeba                      e    ela
ad iiIia    erlu,ntrlgea d bdo,nula   odgubrmlog-                                     moor  o  pemaenlyetaf fed by n Phye~i,cI  Ibet by a   ditelacitet
ttriotty  in  iLTaam   o  ca  euualn  per ca .pital 1960, 1970, and 1976                    oe,mddwife, o_ta)eibofrn-tetacedinedpovea
data.                                                                                      lnited rang  of meitl fnoititiga        ..Do   ttatclprpeenba  heep-
POPULATiION ANl VITAL S iAISTICSO.l beitale  Wloclor rurl ipitl  and  padini ted meterelty                                                                         retr.1
fodtai Poplatio.Ci-er  elloe  -               Ief Jcly 1; 1960, 197D, end 1979          Adalani..e rer iteitlnd - Totalnmero   daain  to or di.tbarges
date.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frih. boitale divfded by the n-b- of hbda.
Orban PIPclIcI.  -coet of total) - Ratic of urban to total population;
ifrr   etIttone. of urba    raamyaffect  -opa-bility of date                eOUnncbu
amn tcuciac: 1960, 1970, tod 1976 data.                                          Aveag  line o.. f foucebold lperaoae ta   au..ho.d -i total. u-bn. endne-
PuaioPoft2ecltie                                                                     A   h.ueehcldoetete of gopof ,tediuidua.                h.. er  living quarte.t
PoultonI  ya_ ll   - Current yoyclatioo proj-ctico   ar  bh...d on 11               no   hei mai tel.   A boar.der or lodger nay yr may toe ho included in
total populatIon hy ego god  oo and ther  -.rlity god fertility  .ae.                 teIeehol   o   talt,l  upee
tog litfa aoaor--c  at birrh Lincre.elig nith coutr..     Per ..Pit. iooe              e   fproeyrrnI   l   rb-                 n   ua   cuidanatoe
lard, adfeala life enpectanohy etbilloing at 77.5 Year..  The pare-                 dolig,  epcivl.1nolne noida ontP-pe                     ,nn  etrcture  and
maer  for fertilty oget In  hn  throc 1ee- geuao   decl..ine tounccpied pgrte.
fertility accodingt Lc mae  lana  and pen  family planning pe-fotn_ot               Aaeaa~to  lcttricity  Ir--au  of deellital-rt.ura,adrrl-
egotcoutry  e ieocc Iged  ce  f oheaooncotintioe ofmoralIr Cooeniool den litge eith electricity in ljinin   quartere aa p-rtatg
ndfertility   ed  for ytoje_oinn PurPe.                                             of total, urban,n rul d-etaiin.  _ePe-tv.-ly.
i-taienar  cOpuatio  - In a .ttoar   oulto   there L Iano g-ht irce
the hitch rete La aqol of the death rate, an  ala   the age etr-t-r  Pa-    FOOCATION
_toe  co-rat.  Thi  inahieved only after  -fetiity rtee. declica to                   djeEd -t1i-met ntloe
tbe rplacment end   f onitoa  rprductionrae  planech geeain.rIc eh       total, mole gad femI  - ioeitel, mole nod femal
entiaaed 00  ie haIe  f thryoeor   iroecgieo  the populeoton                      primary e-hool-1ge  ouain;tnormely include  obdld-e  agd b-li
in the yea  doff, aod the  aeo  declineoIf f-riloy rate to replace-                     Yea.  hut ad)e;tg :fordif fer-   tenhi  of pri-ary edot.tin; for
000eatoeo  ocetin. te teatcled - The Yea   h.en  -ttioary 'Ypopulation            elcem    ufl   r   ayo  above the - -fica  eobod nge.P
P-r en  Me.-Cd-yerp-         lto    koiuatAl--te  (100 heot--) Ifrn-idne genra, oatonl,o  rator" trann   inatrtian foe papik
total area.                                                                             o-uall  of 12 to' 17 year. o    e  corep-acecurg   regneal
Pere.  e  aCiutra nd -Coputed aegbiovo   totagicul.tura  lendacie.
only.                                                                                 irainlaV-aotfcon   fccrdrl-Vctoa   toetioo
Foeolaoioo on  icotr                   Chretl-fild-e  10-14 ronc),  -ork...-.. 715-           .tincldetchotoel' . odEtrit, o15r otie  pr-re  eiob operate  epn
64tyea.),  nd retired (65 Pore andovr   aper-nrgee of cid-ye-  .por-                       dently or ge depet_tmat  of  -ncndary ineituttOe
latLot; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                       Pocult-eeher ratio - erti-ry. end ....odar  - Total eudante an1oild in
Paoolatioo Groth R.t  Ire...ntl - total-  Motl eroth ote   f total mid-                      pri-oy and  ncdayeeediided h  number of t-hber  in the
yea  ppultig for1950-60, 1960-f 0, ad197-6crreodn lele
Porleio  ureh  ae i--ce     - urhet -uoalrobrteof  rhuo pa-                                autltrcyrtporet  -tLtrnedle   al   to  ed and unite)
lotion. for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-78.                                                 Ieprecg    f ttlautpplto   gd1   ar   o   vr
Icude Blrtb Race (ne-th ...u.d) - uoool Line hirthe pro tho..nod of nod-year
"popIton  1960, 1970,on  179 dong.                                                  CasTn'na
lod. Deth R.e  ee  Obouged) - --Iua deae' Per thn--ed of uid-y..r                       Pegen-e Carc (per- ogn   ounlo  - P.e.e.gar tare  -mpiac moto
Ctpopultion; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dote                                                    ceeIgfogIee  ha   ight poreon; ogoldeeahuate,bergagd
Icoee terroduorian rete-uverage nether of daughoeragooman 0111 bear to    .01 iterr cehicb-leeili.--M~1...t
Set noma  reproductive period uf nhoce.p-reco    re-         pan-pe   ocf              Rado iteor   crtouadoultr)-All cypee of recever  for rdt,
oil1t    _nre;uealy fi_oe-ya  o--rae  todito  in 1960, 1970, and 1977.                   hruceeognrlpht   e  hcad of Vpopleoion; anclodeeol-
rally fln..nine-car_       r,  _   u.(P_aod  - -..c.I octro   cecre                        cra   eev         in  __uire  and in ye-r  eh- r-gietration of red1i  em
oburh ..o.trclde--oe.cd-reefieerItoal 1vcyrloona Proccaa                               nag ineff-eco     t orforrcet Y-gr  a-Yn    bec_m...obleeintemoet
Family flnonIn-Car    Loro     o  nrlr-droe). .... ocetege oftarried. ootegbo1iahd li-ialn.
onme   fichild-bear1ingag (1% 5-IA  -aca) oho  -n bcr-b-c-ccri deotreInro                   .. rcivere  per  .ou.ad ...oulaon(-Treivrfcbodet to
al   arid8oe-O et   g   rup.                                                             general publicperthoueao  pooatn-nidealcnedP.TP -eceivere
FOOD AR_NUTRITION                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nenpace  Circu-tio  (rt hneo  cpulat:~ion) - Ohona the argtircula.
Iaden of rood froduto ceCaita (1969-71100) - loden of Per caPita.oal                       tn   f'ul  gmti  Re1 Itereh         eeppr,dfoa    apruie-o
opdaio  folfoo=omdlle    rduto molue redadte  nd                                     Octo         dnted orinarly to -eo-ding genera  Iene   It L. con..ide...d
It  n -ac-d-r fret batle.  Cao   e   oe           zr  gode lee. fucacd                 to he 'daIly  Of it appo-r  at lean.t fou- ie      eh
tea ar   cocldoul. A9gregate P-du-tioc of eeo  r-n-cy in bi.aed 00                       r cketo  -Iod duiro lthe year. Inocludlog eoaoeto drive-in citema
naIoa Snarg  producer  price onghon; 19i1-6y, 19f,1  and 1079 date.od   hieot.
yetcooic  too0  ofcucrin (erentofreolcnocel- Coopotnd fron
roeryeqiyalnt  f net food. opylire-                   -alelccoty P., -tpita       LAuOR FORCE
pe   a.Acailtobl  _oplie   cyr-        ont    rdctio,  ieo         rt          TtlLbrForc  (tht.e.da)l  E-1t-onie1y activepro-                     oldn
oP,ro, atd chaoe  couco...k.  Net  pnpl yeu  -oolde  nolfe,ceo                          re   oreadoeroe    o  ontloinbo-dniv:..e. eoe  ec
ououieed in food Proce...ing, and lnr   tdeobti.  teur-                        l            Ltr   i.etu   -oorinac     .otcmprble; 1960. 1970 end
-.toretimutd If Put bened .. phyailoloica  ordeI for  ocm ltOi-                  1797  dlut.
oiY hadhtc  --nide-o  eoccennltprtuo,body naibhte. og                               ooeleon)-fnl  ao   oc   nPere-teg  of 'tota  "aho  foote.
and ten dietlhutico or  opnotnt  sd g"lnOy  10 Perreot for- ooo                      betcutur_r1nt  - Lho  force Or fermin,f for.etry, hoeto and 
b"uI hod .lce; 1961-l  1970  od 1977 dig ..                                            fiobing e. percetage If total labor forc; 160, 197  end 1978 date.
fer cp  _aauyv of _rtl  (cran  pa  day   P-tfc l conen  If per capita                  IdtpCore)- Labor force lo elin.  cntuto,   ooetrt
re .epply of food per dey.  Ne IeuPyy of.od in aefited  bo-he   Re-                 and electicity, -gi- and ge   cPercentage of total labor force; 1960,
qoc oefor aul  ootrine  eteblnnted' by 00..poiefo   fic                          1970 aed 1979 data.
alyonc  of 60 era.'of to1 protIn per~ dayad  0grm  o   nie rdIfrllaincaeIecnl-  oa,nt.an   eae                                                     riclpatioo no
poa  Pr-rein, of  h10th 10 goagealoh   cnL prtt.Ta.ntd                                  civity  _aeer  cmptd  e -tota, nb,  nd fem1l  lbor force-
rdenre I-ne  then thote of75er_  of  Itota  proteIcnod 7)ea    fniae o.f IoTel ,  ol and femal  pouato    f ellnageatee:pectiv-ly;
World food Ourtey; 1961-65, 1970 nod 1977 deta.                     1961. 1970. god 1975 aeca.  Ticee are Il.P0'at970.-dpartditopationteieerefiepctiag
fccctad        _:ol  trlyI frtoea and 1977 e  Prol  trl  o   od  e                      g        --ao _nrucu   o  the population, and long, otie trend.  A fee eet-
rone  frot  nul   n   oett   r            e  dY; 1961-6,  90  o  197dO                cnoi  eoneo        Rcro -tcai ofpplainuder 10 and 65 aud oe
chld ingec L1-A  K-cotaci Oaie (crjc  ...ueId) - unnuJ denthn per chcno  lo                   t.-           Ib     .
agegroP 1-4 yee.e. ;to chlde   in thin ar grop; far  .ont d_oeloping  00
tIte deta dariord 0o  lifenhn 1960.1970 sod 1977 data..                              .CM oITItn      TIOyiN
ieoa arof tloc  locomo (both ~incah nodbind) - taceoied by richee
Lie    mXntao  at Birth (orate   .Auverae nunbet of ycr- of life reninleg             f  ... h ihe.01eod,pere.0pecu,an   ore.6   ecn
atbirlth 1961,  1970 and 1979 dat.-
Infant M-ooteo  cate (re,tb ....and) -  ooua  deeci  of infote under ore yea    ryov  uCoy orCU`s
of ace Per- thoutand  LrbioeceireAhouePvtynomLvl (US) teC,ra  -uban an  regl-I
hioeee  no afe Weta  (Pecn  of co.colatiun) -ttl   Nca,an   ual-                           Abarlota  -oety Lmmc leve  Lc tIertonelve   oneich a minimal
nuebey o  peorle  tonal, oben, andrucol) ot!! eoonbluceeroaf                 ntritionally adequat  diet PI-e eeetl  o-fon   -equirmate te not
aece  cuc  Ca  yat in   pccatd hrhegeptinge, an   atarele                       enaed...aaatE.,     Poetlmom   ee  00           ;e  ait)-ubn a1             ~g 
Iea..rtbleaccdeotuld-ipl  that iho Ihouoniao 2          onho-   o  t-heoueod             lvlohadunntfrbntctofiigtoranra.
coegl-Nuaharfpeopl. Itotl, urban,t an  pon1                 t         hr.ldeoccE
peegl ma  nld   heolero   oddePt, ih0   ihotonto                                                                 trooia daeyTa anM lol)tn   Deprten
dfItoreeadnetei                te yp atrbonetacn  oc               eeo                                                                  rnbr16
p-it  rne  ada le   rrlltoe



- 23 -                                               ANE of  6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Amount                                                  Annual Growth Rates
(million Us$                 Actual (at 1972 prices)                        Proiected (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                             at current prices)
1979                1975    1976    1977    1978    1979.8/         1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product b/                7080.0                 8.1     7.4      4.3     8.3     6.9            8.0     7.2     6.6      6.4     6.6
Agriculture                            984.7                 3.9     5.2   -7.5       8.6     0.5            8.0     7.6     3.1      3.1     3.1
Industry                              1982.0                 7.4     7.8     7.0      9.1     8.4           11.6     8.5     8.5     8.0      8.0
Services                              3102.9                10.6     5.4     5.8      7.7     8.4            6.6     6.2     6.5     6.5      6.5
Consumption                              5440.3                 2.7     8.8      9.5     9.3     6.0            7.8     9.9    10.0      6.9     9.1
Gross Investment                         2069.0                20.2    16.9      5.8     6.6     9.7            7.2     3.1   -2.9       1.3     0.1
Exports of goods and GNFS                2655.6                 5.0     9.6      5.6     9.1    12.6            5.0     4.1     7.4      7.3     8.8
Imports of goods and GNFS                3084.9                 2.2    19.3    16.5    10.2      8.5            4.6     7.5     7.5      4.6     9.6
Gross national product                   7030.7                 8.6     6.0      4.8     9.1     6.3            7.8     7.2     6.5      6.4     6.6
Groas national savligs                                         22.5   -6.3    -1.7    21.2    35.8             17.6   -0.9   -4.1        7.6     0.8
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                  134.2   137.7   151.4   158.6   171.9             -       -       -        -       -
Exchange rate                                                   2.49    2.33    2.33    2.40    2.46
Share of GDP at market prices (S)                 Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                            (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1979    1985                   1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Gross domestic product                                        100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0                       8.5        6.5         6.6
Agriculture                                                 16.7  18.2      13.9    13.1                      8.8        1.3        3.7
Tndustry                                                    20.5   27.1     28.0    29.2                      9.0        7.8        8.1
Services                                                    49.3   42.7     43.8    43.2                      8.7        6.6        6.4
Consumption                                                    84.8  75.5       76.8    82.8                     8.6        8.3         9.0
Gross investment                                               19.7   29.3      29.2    20.9                    11.8        6.5        -0.4
Exports of goods and GNFS                                      21.9   31.3      37.5    40.3                    12.5       12.2         6.9
Imports of goods and GNFS                                      26.4   36.1      43.6    44.0                    11.3       12.7         7.4
Gross national product                                         97.9   99.9      99.3    99.4                     8.7        6.5         6.7
net factor income                                               2.1    0.1       0.7     0.6                      -          -           -
Gross national savings                                         13.2   24.3      22.4    17.9                     7.5        5.9       -1.7
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970      1975      1979 a/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                      23.5      25.7      33.3
Current expenditure                                  20.4      19.9      24.4
Surplus (i) or deficit C-)                            3.1       5.9       9.0
Capital expenditure                                   9.5      10.8      13.5
Foreign financing                                     5.0       1.8       1.6
1970-75             1975-79              1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                   8.7                 6.5                  6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                        6.3                  3.9                 4.2
ICOR                                                  2.6                 4.3                  4.0
Marginal savings rate                                30.5                17.6                  0.0
Import elasticity                                     1.24                2.01                 1.12
a/ Estimate.
h/ GOP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
ZMENA CP 2C
October, 1980



- 24 -                                                    ANNER I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Amount                                                 Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                   Actual (at 1972 prices)                           Proiected (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                               at current prices)
1979                 1975    1976    1977    1978    1979              1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                        1762.6                 -9.0      5.8    -5.0    16.0    10.1              6.1      1.3      7.1     6.8      9.3
Crude oil                                800.0                 27.7   -15.0      1.9    14.0    91.3             11.6    -4.5      9.0      8.6      0.0
Other primary                            123.0                -26.7    21.8   -17.9    34.7    10.0            -11.7       5.8     2.7      2.6      2.5
Manufactures                             839.6                -14.6    37.2    -1.5    21.9    14.8               1.3      6.3      6.0     5.7    18.8
Merchandise imports                        2827.3                 -0.4    13.6    30.4       5.5    11.7             4.3      7.6      7.7     4.6    10.0
Food                                     358.9                  7.7   -13.5    25.5    11.1    22.2               7.2      9.9    10.0      6.0      8.9
Petroleum                                493.5                 43.1   -24.8    -8.5    -3.9    25.7              -9.8    11.0    12.5    -3.4    37.0
Machinery and equipment                  704.8                 33.3    19.1      2.4      5.2   -11.0            -1.3      1.3     0.0      1.3      0.0
Others                                  1270.2                 -8.0    31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1             9.9      9.0     9.1      7.3      8.3
Price Index (1972 - 100)                          Price Index (1977 - 100)
PRICES
Export price index                           -                   191.0   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9             196.4   218.8   241.2   264.2   293.2
Import price index                           -                   170.4   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6             146.6   160.7   175.4   187.4   203.1
Terms of trade index                         -                   112.1   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3             134.0   136.2   137.5   141.0   144.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                   Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                  (at constant prices)
1970      1975       1979       1985                 1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Exports                                                         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                 11.6          9.4         6.1
Crude oil                                                     24.5      41.8       45.3       54.9                  23.2         3.0         0.0
Other primary                                                 21.2      18.0         7.1        5.2                  6.7         2.0         3.0
Manufactures                                                  54.3       40.2      47.6       39.9                   6.2        14.3         9.9
Imports                                                          100.0    100.0       100.0     100.0                  13.4        12.4          7.6
Food                                                           20.6      15.8      12.7       17.9                   8.9         7.5         8.8
Petroleum                                                       4.0       9.8      17.5       22.6                  36.5        23.2        14.5
Machinery and Equipment                                        23.0      30.2      24.9       27.6                  15.7         8.3        -0.1
Others                                                         52.4     44.2       44.9       31.9                  10.6        13.2         8.4
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries   )          Developing Countries (2)           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
1970     1975       1979          1970       1975       1979               1970       1975      1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                        62.6      48.6       74.1          23.4       41.4       n.a.               14.0       10.0      n.a.
Imports                                        62.9      67.1       73.5          33.7       25.7       n.a.                3.4        7.2      n.a.



ANNEX I
-25 _ij6 of 6
TUNISL1 -  BALANCE OF PAIYENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Population:       6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita;  $1,120 (1979)
Actual                                                 Proj-errd
1970        1975         1976         1977        1978         197981.      1980       198L      1982       1983       1985
BALANCE OP PAY1ENTS
Net exports of goods & services        -104.5       -208.8       -417.1      -567.0       -599.7       -478.5       -350.8    -499.5    -567.2    -427.8    -744.7
Exports of goods & services           355.6      1,529.2      1,479.4     1,695.5      2,090.6      2,913.9      3,548.4   4,062.4   4,746.0   5,503.1   7,384.3
Imports of goods & services           460.1      1,738.0     1,896.5      2,262.5      2,690.3      3,392.4      3,899.2   4,561.9   5,313.2   5,930.9   8,129.0
Net transfers                            53.0         47.4         52.8         46.4         33.6        31.0         36.0       36.0      36.1       36.1       36.1
Current account balance                 -51.5       -161.4       -364.3       -520.6      -566.1       -447.5       -314.8    -463.5    -531.1    -391.7    -708.5
Direct private investe st                25.5         50.2        102.6         92.3         91.1       164.8        181.3      199.4     219.3      241.3      292.0
NLT locus (net)                          43.4        124.5        161.1        557.1        468.6       383.0        324.0      346.9     405.7      227.6      559.7
Official                               41.7        102.9        131.5        286.7       184.8        256.8        364.9      366.4     397.4      328.6      280.0
Private                                 1.7         21.6         29.6        270.4       283.8        126.2        -40.9     -19.5        8.3    -101.0      279.7
Other capital                             2.0        -53.0         58.6       -185.5         41.4        32.4          -          -         -          -          -
Change in reserves                      -19.4         39.7         42.0         56.7       -35.0       -132.7       -190.4     -82.8      -93.9      -77.2    -143.3
International reserves                   15.4        347.5        304.5        247.8       282.8        415.5        605.9      688.8     782.7      859.9   1,134.7
Reserves as months of imports             0.4          2.4          1.9          1.3          1.3         1.5          1.9        1.8       1.8        1.7        1.7
Actual
1970     1925      1976     1977      1978      1979k'/
GROSS DISBURSEHENTS
Official grants                                               43.0      50.2      53.2     47.3      32.7      31.0
Qross disbursemests of I4LT loans                              88.8    191.8    227.2    646.7    575.1    661.6
e- Concessiosal                                                45.2    100.1    108.7    178.4    182.5    279.6
Other multilateral                                           1.0       5.5        -       0.3       7.6     12.7
Bilateral                                                   41.3      82.0      99.8    172.5    174.1    266.7
IDA,        _                                                2.9      1-2.6     8.9       5.6       0.8      0.2
Non-*oucsaional                                               43.6      91.7    118.5    468.3    392.6    382.0
Private                                                     33.1      49.8      52.2    311.8    334.8    243.0
Official export credits                                       1.3     15.0      16.5    100.6      12.0     16.3
IBRD                                                         9.2      26.9      25.3     47.5      33.0     55.4
Other multilateral                                            -         -      24.5       8.4      12.8     67.3
ETEAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                               544.8  1,038.9  1,175.2  1,780.1  2,358.9  2,893.9
Official                                                   370.9    862.2    987.5  1,308.6  1,567.1  1,931.3
iBRD                                                      70.1    109.8    127.9    167.3    189.4    232.0
IDA    *                                                  36.7      55.3     64.1      66.8     67.4      67.3
Other                                                    264.1    697.1    195.5  1,074.5  1,310.3  1,632.0
Private                                                    173.9    176.7    187.7    471.5    791.8    962.6
Undisbursed debt                                              308.9    725.3  1,260.4  1,551.5  1,708.9  1.569.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                                    63.2    101.6    104.6    143.7    201.6    310.3
Interest                                                    17.8      35.1     38.7      53.9      95.0    142.0
Payments as 1 exports                                         17.8       6.7       7.1      8.5       9.6     10.7
Payments s*   CIIP                                              4.4      2.4       2.4       2.8      3.4       4.4
Average interest rate on new Loans (X)                           -       3.9       5.1      6.2       7.1       6.3
Official                                                       -       3.3       4.3      4.7       4.8      6.3
Private                                                       -        6.7       8.0      7.7       9.8       -
Average maturity of new loans (years)                            -      24.0      20.7     16.3      14.9      19.4
Official                                                      -       27.1     23.9      21.4      19.5     19.4
Private                                                       -        9.1       8.9     10.7       9.4       -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Naturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Axortization due within 5 years                                                    49.0
Amortization due within 10 year                                                    92.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                      6.5
A/ Estimates.



- 26 -                                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. bTATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                 Amount (less
Credit                                                                                  Cancellation)
NumDer   Year           Borrower                    Purpose                      Bank    IDA b/   Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                   162.36   60.47
238     1971  Republic of Tunisia            Population                                   4.80     1.14
858     1972  Republic of Tunisia             Tourism Infrastructure            14.00              2.52
937     1973  Republic of Tunisia            Urban Planning & Public            11.00              1.42
Transportation                   -
1029     1974  Republic of Tunisia            Hotel Training                      5.60              0.39
1042     1974  Compagnie des Phosphates        Phosphate Development             23.30              1.19
et Chemin de Fer de GAFSA
1068     1974  Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation         12.20              4.73
1088     1975  Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage                     28.00             12.41
1155     1975  Republic of Tunisia            Third Education                     8.60              7.36
1188     1975  Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                   28.00             20.23
1189     197b  Banque de Developpement         Sixth Development Finance Co.   20.00                0.66
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
238-1    1976  Republic of Tunisia             Population                                  4.80     1.12
1340     1976  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit           12.00              3.13
1355     1976  Societe Tunisienne de          Second Power                       14.50              0.62
l'Electricitd et du Gaz
1431     1977  Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development            42.00             17.15
1445     1977  SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply                21.00             14.88
1504     1977  BDET                           Development Finance Co.            30.00              5.85
1505     1977  Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industrial Project   5.00                 3.27
1601     1978  Republic of Tunisia            Rural Roads (Third Highways)    32.00                30.02
1675     1979  Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Sewerage              26.50             26.35
1702     1979  Societe Nationale              Fifth Water Supply                 25.00             16.81
d'Exploitation d'Eau
1705     1979  Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Development          19.00             18.69
1746     1979  Kepublic of Tunisia            Second Fisheries                   28.50             28.15
1796     1980  Republic of Tunisia             Southern Irrigation               25.00             24.84
1797     1980  Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                           42.50             32.95
1841     1980  Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Highways                    36.50             36.50
1864a/   1980  Societe Tunisienne de           Second Natural Gas Pipeline       37.00             37.00
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1885 a/  1980  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit            30.00             30.00
c/      1981  Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Education                   26.00             26.00
TOTAL                                                           765.56   70.07   405.38
Of which has been repaid                                         78.38    5.13
Total now outstanding                                           687.18   64.94
Amount Sold                            14.33
of which has been repaid              11.42                      2.91
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                               684.27   64.94
Total Undisbursed                                               403.12    2.26   405.38
a/ Not yet effective
b/  Prior to exchange adjustment
c/ Not yet signed



- 27 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligator                              Type of Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                Fertilizers                 2.0      1.5       3.5
1966   Societe Nationale d' Investissement        Development Finance Co.              0.6      0.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                            Development Finance-Co.   8.0        2.2      10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                         Development Finance Co.              0.6       0.6
1973   Societe Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                    Tourism                     1.6     0.3       1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                     2.5     0.7       3.2
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Chemicals                            0.6       0.6
1978   BDET                                       Development Finance Co.              1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                               14.1     7.7      21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                  7.2     1.8       9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      6.9     5.9      12.8
Total undisbursed                                                              0.4       0.4



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project; Ub64.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1;      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
bousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed. These facilities are expected to be
staffed and fully operational by mid-1981. The construction of the fourth
hospital at Bizerte is likely to be completed by end 1981. Twenty-five of
the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three are expected to be completed by mid-1981. One center (La
Hafsia) has been deleted from the project because the Government has been
unable to obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; Ub$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is in its final implementation stage. The remaining
works are expected to be completed by April 1981. Disbursements are being
made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432;        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Transports (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock,
improving its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1029:       Hotel Training Project; Usi5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now operational.
The training curricula have been introduced in September 1979 and extended
to all training schools in the country. Disbursements are being made only
on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 1042:       Gafsa Phosphate Project; Ub$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alterna-
tive deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  USi12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for the marketing
center in Nebhana for which bids are called again after the previously
successful bidder went bankrupt. In the Medjerda area, land reform is pro-
gressing slowly, and farmers are lagging behind in meeting their contribu-
tions to the investment costs. In Nebhana, the land consolidation



- 30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
program is developing well and farmers have been settled on nearly 65 per-
cent of the total area. OMVVM continues to encourage large owners to
improve cultivation of land and marked progress has been reported in the
distribution of medium and short-term credit. Progress in construction and
rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks continues to be
satisfactory. Production of early vegetables under greenhouses in the
Nebhana is encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  Ub$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; U6$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $l.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily; designs for the
extension of the five teacher training colleges have been approved and
invitations for local bidding are scheduled for April 1981. Equipment
procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; Ub$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of



- 31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The final report of the transport coordination study has been completed.
The Government is now reviewing the consultants recommendations, and has
agreed to set up a transport planning unit.
Ln. 1189:       sixth Development Finance Company Project;  US$20 million
loan of January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; June 7,
1976; Closing Date: (Original) June 30, 1980; (Current)
March 31, 1981.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in
the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about one-
third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Disbursements are being made only on commitments prior to March 31, 1981.
Ln. 1340;       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed from the
Third Agricultural Credit project. Disbursements in Categories 1, 2 and 4 -
subloans to small and medium farmers, commercial farmers and agro-industrial
investors - are progressing rapidly. They will commence shortly in Category
3, subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations, after BNT and Government have approved six subprojects. The
Closing Date may have to be extended to December 31, 1981.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; Usi14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; Us$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
new railroad, including superstructure, is now completed and will soon be
operational. After some initial delays, construction of the Medjerda-Cap
Bon interconnection canal is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; Ub$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness; January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the proj-
ect is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SbI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The $5 million loan to the Government is fully committed, as is the
$28 million component to BDET. The $2 million earmarked for the financing
of SSI extensions is half committed. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Under the bSI pilot project, the commercial banks'
initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SbI financing has been over-
come. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities
toward setting up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance
experts, specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the
project.
Ln 1601;        Rural Roads Project; Us$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the provinces to be
covered under the project. The Government wishes to accelerate implementa-
tion so as to complete construction works by end-1982. Progress on the
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln 1675:        Second Urban sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceed-
ing. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of i28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1981.
Ln. 1705:       second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness; December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded. Detailed
design for the boats has been delayed due to delays in contract finalization
with the consultants. Engines are being procured under ICB; analysis of
bids is still in progress.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; Ub$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project. Bidding documents and bids have been reviewed by the
Bank for procurement of asbestos-cement pipes.



- 34 -                          ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
The contracts for civil works have been awarded. Work has now
commenced at La Goulette after delays in agreement on an acceptable location
of a site for depositing material to be dredged from the project area. No
work has yet commenced at Sfax due to delays in moving the Chantiers Navals
from their present location to the new fishing harbor nearby, and checking
of final design. Consultants to supervise the works at Sfax have been
appointed.
Ln. 1841;       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well and according to
schedule. All the elements of the 1981 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have now been received and reviewed.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 22,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project is
being redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute to premium liquid
fuel products. Amendment to legal documents is under preparation.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness; April 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and agroindustries.
The loan is not yet effective, pending receipt of the legal opinions.



- 35 -                        ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Government to
prepare project:                        15 months (July 1979-September 1980)
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:        Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite
et du Gaz (STEG)
(c)  Initial discussions with the Bank:    June 1979
(d)  Bank project preparation mission:        May-June 1980
(e)  Appraisal Mission;                       October-November 1980
(f) Date of Completion of
Negotiations:                          April 17, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           August 20, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) During negotiations the Government agreed to: (i) increase the domestic
sale prices of petroleum products so as to reach parity with inter-
national prices by January 1987; and (ii) revise and implement elec-
tricity tariffs to cover the total increases in STEG's fuel cost as soon
as possible, and in any case within two months after the increases in the
prices of petroleum products used by STEG are effective (paras 30 and 35).
(b) During negotiations STEG agreed: (i) to revalue each year the fixed
assets related to its electricity activity using as revaluation factor
the official wholesale price index for Tunisia (para 43); (ii) to earn a
minimum 8 percent rate of return on its net fixed assets in operation in
1981, and a rate of return of not less than 6 percent in any year from
1982 onward if the average price of fuels used by STEG is increased by at
least 20 percent in that year (para 46); (iii) to ensure that its receiv-
ables for electricity shall not exceed the equivalent of three months'
sales (para 45); and (iv) not to incur any debt without Bank approval if
its debt service coverage ratio is less than 1.5 (para 48).






TUNISIA
Me ditetcnar: Se eizefte rSePOWER  M   PROJECT
B    t t i                                                         X  w  Bourguibtry 4\EI  43 C*\ GENEMATING STATIONS
STEAM TURBINES
sseb      El Aroussio   a                     /                              GA  WRfYg NES
El Hailor     eB                                  Qued                                           AL                 DIEseL STA&tQSf
<  qes   t S&               b9i Sidi*                                                       0   *        1 TN4tnobN (22s45-90 KV
o                 MeOiu mESl-T ON  3 KV.;
Sok  hrs             Nebeur                   /hun   \            H     on=                           T     IIO    lJS
-225 eV.-
Oued Domous             ,E Ke9
90C-            -
36                                                                                                        -36
-6  El Aouieteron                                                                                 ------ '30  = I 4    ;tM
\ jm \[: ~~~~~''- = |/a  a,~e                                               .FIRM2.@;0===  
MA)*MUM OKMANG3
Te\esso         \                  'O L \ hdiS ElKf :                                         =      STCtCtNTER$
I       Ro -ON~TW$DRE -iosrn        i,bur                          bEa                       X0 Q    
Jebel Ortk       l t',7. Ch-k                                   Sii A :re--
A L G E R I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIfM K
!          MeicluiA           S,di Moknossy            Sid Agorre X0i           bstr
s4   C    _-_2  r    r r    2 \t A                        t 0 0 0  ;;;0  2 0  40L TR 608  90012
0                             A
M'nel,lo~~~ i   . \ 0Sbi                    *       B eni  Kheddoche <        
|              '~~~~~otoouine                                                 .
k | ~~~~~~~~~~ARemodo)  8
3S, *\\.\                                                                                   -  A/z FRCA/,/
SidiAy(               _:,
S O USSE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oos. \ho, o,o lb 'ctSncosceo ndo                   12t O'tby 9ocspc yb  odBs dt
Sk6 rre ~ ~ f,clS oydssoo,fc aaoao fso actoyo o oo,a,oO 
0  ~~~~~~p  lp  lp  IR,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tO
-34' ~ ~  ~ ~ S US                                              9~s                       o,toy f~'b ooecs



