RESTRICTED
fhico i                        TRICy 
'FILE    |,( '.             Report No. P-704
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
May 21, 1969



INMTIMATIO?LIL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DhEVELOPMET
REPORT AND RECON aDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CN A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$4.9 million to
the Republic of El Salvador, for an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project was submitted to the Bank group in October
1966,  It was appraised first in November/December 1966, and after a
revised request which shifted emphasis towards more industrial, agri-
cultural and commercial education, again appraised in March 1968. Ne-
gotiations took place in Washington on December 9 through 11, 1968c The
Borrower was represented by the Minister of Education, Dr. Ttlter Beneke,
the Technical Director of the National Planning Council, Dr. Eduardo
Reyes, and Ing. Mauricio Eduardo Burgos, Chief of the Planning Section
in the Ministry of Education.
3.        Presentation of the loan to the Executive Directors has been
delayed because of the need for the Government to obtain authorization
from the National Assembly wihich, in El Salvador, is a constitutional re-
quirement.
4.        The proposed loan, the ninth to El Salvador, would increase the
Bank's total lending to $57.9 million (net of cancellations). IDA has made
one credit of US$8.0 million.  The following is a summary of Bank loans and
IDA credits to El Salvador as of April 30, 1969:
Loan or                                                lon(U$mli)
Credit       Year           Borrower          Purpose amount (US$ million)
No.                                                   Bank  IDA Undisbursed
7 loans      1949-63                                  51eO
Credit 31-ES 1962     Republic of El Salvador  Roads    -   8.0      0.5
Loan 521-ES 1967      Republic of El Salvador Roads    2.8   -       2.8
Total (less cancellations):              53.0  8.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                     23.3
Total now outstanding
(carried forward)                      29.7  8.0      3.3



-2-
C-ntinued
Loan or                                               Amount (US$ millions
Credit   Year          Borrower      Purpose         Bank  IDA Undsbarsed
No.                                                        I
Total now outstanding
(brought fonrard)                         29.7  8.0      303
Amount sold:                          309
of which has been repaid            3.2     0.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA              29¢0  8.0
Total undisbursed                            2.8  0.5      3.3
5.        Disbursements under Credit 31-ES have been slower than expected
due to revisions made to the project and because of the uncertainty regard-
ing the availability of additional financing. Loan 521-ES, made in December
1967, provided the supplementary financing needed. The way was therefore
clear to issue contracts for the remaining roads in the project. It is now
expected that the reaaining  464h,o0o in the IDA credit will be fully disbur-
sed by the present closing date of December 31, 1969. Disbursements under
Loan 521-ES will start after the IAN credit is disbursed and it is expected
that it will be fully disbursed by its closing date of June 30, 1971.
6.        On January 21, 1969, the IFC approved an investment in Hoteles
de Centro America SA.,, consisting of a loan of $0.6 million, and a share
subscription of 4D.3 million, for the construction of a hotel. A further
project in the tourist sector is under discussion.
7.        A number of projects are being prepared for consideration by the
IWorld Bank Group, including projects in power, telecommunications, irriga-
tion and livestock. It is uncertain, however, !-Jhether any of these pro-
jects will be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in the
fiscal year 1970.
8.        The Bank's attention has been drawvm to the unresolved claim, in
respect of certain debts owed by the Salvador Railway Company, which arose
when the assets of the Company were transferred to the Republic of E SSivadwr In
1962. The amount involved is about US$250,0oo. The Government of El Salvador
and representatives of the bondholders and of the British Government are cur-
rently discussing this matter with a view to finding a reasonable solution.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.        Borrower:                 Republic of El Salvador.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of US$4.9 million.



-3 -
Purpose:                  To finance the foreign exchange cost
of constructing or extending, furnish-
ing, and equipping 27 secondary schools
and an agricultural institute and equip-
ping two technical institutions.
Amortization:             In 30 years, including a 10 year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning April 15, 1979 and
ending October 15, 1999.
Interest Rate:            6i percent per annum.
Commitment Charge         3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - fiB PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project in
El Salvador" (TO-646) is attached.
11.       Lack of secondary education is an important constraint to econo-
mic development in El Salvador. At present the country has to attract
expatriate workers in order to satisfy the demand for skilled workers and
middle-level technicians. For the period 1967-1976, the current rates of
supply of middle-level manpower are substantially below estimated require-
ments of about 89,000 persons with secondary education, resulting in a
deficit of about 42,QQO. There is also a qualitative deficiency. The
educational system has not placed the emphasis on technical and agricul-
tural skills appropriate to the needs of the economy. Cn the physical
side, many of the existing schools occupy inadequate quarters (such as
rented private houses) and cannot be expanded to permit a satisfactory
balance between students and teachers, or to acconmodate a modern cur-
riculum including practical subjects.
120       To meet these educational needs, the Government has planned an
expansion of public secondary education with increased emphasis on indus-
trial, agricultural and commercial training.  It is part of a comprehen-
sive national program to cover all levels of education, which is also
being assisted by a USAID financed television education project.
13.       The project consists of: the construction and equipment of 17
new secondary schools; the expansion and equipment of 10 existing secondary
schools; the provision of equipment to two existing technical secondary
institutes; the expansion and provision of technical assistance for the
agricultural school in San Andres; and 90 fellowships for teacher training
in agriculture, industry and commerce, as well as for school administrators.
It would provide inter alia, 15,600 new public school places; increase out-
put by 100 in two private secondary technical institutes and by 55 in the
agricultural school at San Andres; and raise the general standard of secon-
dary education by broadening the curricula with industrial, agricultural



- 4 -
and commercial options. The project would provide schools which would turn
out 32 percent of all graduates from public secondary schools. The inclu-
sion of teacher training of various types will ensure proper staffing of
the project schools.
14.      The project will be implemented by a special project unit already
set up in the Ministry of Education consisting of a project director, two
architects, two engineers, an education expert, an accountant, and support-
ing staff. Three experts in technical education from the Ministry of
Education are also available on a part-time basis to the project unit.
The unit will also maintain contact and coordinate with other government
departments, including the Ministry of Works, through specially appointed
officers from these departments.
15.      The capital costs per student place will be $210 in schools with-
out industrial or agricultural options, and $320 where these options are
included. Annual estimated recurrent costs for this project are expected
to reach $2.8 million per annum by 1975. This will represent about 6.6
percent of total public education recurrent expenses, which are estimated
to increase during 1966-1975 from $22.2 million to $42.4 million.
16.      Total project costs are estimated to be $8.4 million, including
interest and other charges during construction. The proposed Bank loan
would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project estimated at
$4.9 million or 58 percent of total project costs. The balance repre-
senting the local currency cost will be financed by the Government. Ex-
penditures w11 extend over the five-year period 1969-1973 (including a
three-year period for construction). The Government, having recently
adopted revenue measures that have strengthened its financial position,
should be able to provide the counterpart funds required during this period.
In the longer run, howJever, new revenue measures are likely to prove neces-
sary in order to meet the growing burden of recurrent expenditures for edu-
cation, without unduly sacrificing other high priority targets of the pre-
sently envisaged development program.
17.      Procurement of goods and services will be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding for both building construction and purchases
of equipment. It is likely that building construction contracts (with an
estimated 20 percent imported content) will go to local contractors, that
furniture (with an estimated 50 percent imported content) will be bought
locally and that instructional equipment will be imported. Architectural
services may stem in part from abroad while technical educational assis-
tance would be mainly from abroad.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTIUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.      The draft Loan Agreenent between the Bank and the Republic of
El Salvador, the Report of the Commnittee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



19.       The loan documents contain the usual covenants for education
projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       The report on "Economic Development and Prospects of Central
America" (WH-170a dated June 5, 1967) concluded that El Salvador's economy
was faced with a period of deceleration of growth and balance of payments
and credit restraints, and that the Government had to strengthen its fi-
nancial position and expand investment expenditures to counteract the
contractionary tendencies and lay the basis for sustained growth in future
years. In 1967 and 1968 the rate of GDP growth did, in fact, substantially
decrease and a policy of credit restraint was followed in order to avoid
balance of payments deterioration. The Government was able during the
period to introduce new revenue measures; these, however, were not suf-
ficient to prevent a drop in government savings, and public investments
dropped considerably instead of increasing as planned.
21.       The attached memorandum reviews developments of the last two
years and the Government's plans for encouraging much needed diversifica-
tion of the economy.  It observes that El Salvador must still resolve the
fiscal and operational problems of the public sector that were already
identified in the last report as key conditions for sustaining an acceler-
ated development effort; but also notes that steps to these ends are now
beginning to be taken, within a context of continued prudent monetary poli-
cies.  With external debt service currently represanting only 2.9 percent
of foreign exchange earnings and wzith adequate foreign exchange reserves,
El Salvador is creditworthy for the external borrowing currently being
considered. But some concessionary finance might be warranted in the
future to moderate the budgetary strains and the sharp increase in debt
service that the expanded program implies.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF ACTRME1ENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECO1RDDATIONS
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Attachments                                             Robert S. M4cNamara
President
May 21, 1969
Washington, D. C.



