Document of
The World Bank
]FOR OMCIA.L USE ONLY
(6R. As=&-TO°
Report No.5293-TO
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
14arch 4, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This doc_mmt has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the perfomnmce of
their official duies. Its cotents may no odterwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 460
CFAF 1 million - US$2,174
MEASURES
1 m   =  3.28 ft
1 M2   =  10.76 sq ft
1 km2   =  0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGPE      -   Directorate General of Educational Planning ("Direction
G6ngrale de la Planification de lVEducation")
DPE       -   Educational Planning Division ("Direction de la Planification
de 1'Education")
DCEBS     -   School Construction and Maintenance Division ("Direction de la
Construction et de l'Entretien des Batiments Scolaires")
DEPE      -   Proiect Implementation Division ("Direction de l'Execution des
Proj ets Education")
DIFOP     -   Directorate of Teacher Training and Curriculum Development
("Direction de la Fornation Permanente de l'Action et de la
Recherche Scientifique")
ENI       -   Primary Teachers College ("Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs")
FAC       -   French Aid and Cooperation Agency ("Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation")
LIM3USCO   -   Government's textbook agency ("Librairie des Mutuelles
Scolaires")
MFSD      -   Ministry of First and Second Degrees ("Minist6re des Premier et
Deuxi4me Degres")
MTFD      -   Ministry of Third and Fourth Degrees ("Ministare des Troisiame
et Quatriame Degres")
FISCAL YEAP.
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAP.
October 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE .......................... .     iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY                .........   iv-vii
I. BACKGROUND ................................................       1
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR       ............              I
A. Overview ...............................................       I
B. The Education System ...................................       2
C. Organization and Management of Education       . . .           2
D. Main Issues in Education ...............................       3
1. Quality of Education               ..                       3
2. Management of Education .............................       3
E. Government Strategy for Educational Development ........       5
F. Fxternal Assistance to Education           .    .     .        5
G. The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development .......       6
1. The Bank Group's Previous Involvement       .     .         6
2. Sectoral Lending Objectives            .        .           6
III. THE PROJECT ...............................................       7
A. Project Objectives and Description .....................       7
1. Improving the Quality of Education ..................       7
2. Improving the Management of Education ...............      10
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan            ..                 12
C. Project Implementation                ..                      12
1. Procurement .........................................      13
2. Disbursements .......................................      15
3. Recurrent Cost Implications .........................      16
4. Special Account .....................................      16
5. Reporting and Auditing ..............................      16
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................      17
A. Benefits ...............................................      17
B. Risks ..................................................      17
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................      17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
the Republic of Togo from March 10 to 23, 1984. The mission members were
Messrs. J.C. Lair (Mission Leader and Senior Educator), Mrs. T. Kolan
(Economist), Messrs. B. Abeille and P. Bussat (Architects), C. Posma
(Consultant Architect). Ms. S. Currie and Ms. J. Angers assisted the mission
members with the preparation of the report. The editors were Ms. P. Roos and
Mr. M. King.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance or
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNXS
1-1     Basic Data Sheet
2-1     Comparative Education Indicators
2-2     Enrollment Growth by Level of Education Between 1975 and 1983
2-3     Organigram of the Education System
2-4     Enrollment Pyramid by Grade (1982-83)
2-5     Number of Primary Teachers by Category and Level of Educational
Degree
2-6     Comparison of Recurrent Costs per Student in Selected West African
Countries
2-7     Education Expenditures by Number of Students and Level of Education
2-8     Distribution of the Education Budget by Category of Expenditures
2-9     Sources of Education Financing
3-1     Description, Objectives and Implementation Strategy of the Project
Components
3-2     Project Cost and Financing by Component, Cost Category and Year
3-3     Base Cost Estimates for Civil Works
3-4     Implementation Schedule
3-5     Procurement Procedures
3-6     Summary of Consultant Services
3-7     Suzmary of Fellowships
3-8     Disbursement Profile
3-9     Government Contribution (including Price Contingencies) to the
Project by Fiscal and School Years (1985-1990)
3-10    Project Financial Management and Accounting Arrangements
MAP:    IBRD 18680



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                   Document Tit'le                               WAIC Code
1.    "Formation et Recyclage des MaItres du Premier Degre"
(Working Paper), February 1985.                                221.953 (1)
2.    "Edition, Publication et Diffusion des Manuels Scolaires"
(Working Paper), February 1985.                                221.953 (2)
3.    "Amelioration de la Qualite de 1'Enseignement des
Mathematiques et des Sciences au 2eme Degre" (Working
Paper), February 1985.                                         221.953 (3)
4.    "Renforcement de la Planification de l'Education"
(Working Paper), February 1985.                                221.953 (4)
5.    "Entretien des Batiments Scolaires" (Working Paper),
February 1985.                                                 221.953 (5)
6.    "Administration et Evaluation du Projet" (Working Paper),
February 1985.                                                 221.953 (6)
7.    Note to Files, Socioeconomic Background and Employment,
March 4, 1985.                                                 221.953 (7)
8.   "'finistere de l'Enseignement des Troisieme et Quatriame
Degres et de la Recherche Scientifique et Ministere de
l'Enseignement des Premier et Deuxieme Degres (Direction
Generale de la Planification de l'Education).
Statistiques Scolaires:  Annees 1975-76; 1976-77; 1977-78;   TOGO - 500
1980-81; 1981-82; 1982-83".                                    (6 vols.)
9.    "Ministere du Plan et de la Reforme Administrative
(Direction de la Statistique). Annuaire Statistique
du Togo; 1979-80.  Republique Togolaise", December 1982.       TOGO - 500
10.    "La Reforme de l'Enseignement au Togo", 1975.                  TOGO - 500
11.    "4eme Plan de D6veloppement Economique et Social, 1981-85;   TOGO - 130
Annexes techniques", undated.                                  (32827)



- iv -
RIEPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BorroWers          Republic of Togo
B3neficiary:       Ministry of National Education
Credit Amount:     US$12.4 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:       The anjor objectives of the project are to:
1) Improve the quality of education at the primary and
the lower secondary schools through these measures:
(a) for primary school improvement, upgrading the
skills of 5,850 primary teachers by providing an
integrated program consisting of correspondence
courses, seminars at lnspectorates, three-month,
upgrading courses at Primary Teachers Colleges
t'ENIs), on-the-job support to teachers by
inspectors and advisers (60 in total) who would be
provided refresher training; and providing
low-cost textbooks to students;
(b) for lowar secondary school Improvement,
(i) providing an integrated program for improved
teaching by upgrading the skills of about 1,250
math and science teachers at annual seminars;
providing on-the-job support to teachers by the 21
inspectors who would be provided refresher
training; and preparing and distributing teacher
guides;
(ii) improving science facilities by
rehabilitation of 12 existing, and construction of
12 new, laboratories and workshops for teacher
training and for preparing prototypes of simple
math and science equipment; conversion of 262
classrooms in 234 lover secondary schools into
scienca rooms; and by providing basic
instructional materials and science equipment.



-v-
2) Improve the management of education through assistance
to:
(a) the Educational Planning Division for improved
planning and allocation of financial, physical and
teaching resources in the education sector;
(b) the School Construction and Maintenance Division
to develop a capability for school rehabilitation
and for preventive maintenance by rural
communities and teachers; and
(c) the Project Implementation Division to strengtben
project preparation and implementation.



- vi -
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(US$ '000)
Categories (costs net of
taxes and duties):                        Local       orp4i       Total
---(US$ 000)
Civil Works                                  653.2       411.6    1,064.8
Furniture                                    140.2        82.3       222.5
Equipment                                     75.4     2,150.0    2,225.4
Consultant Services                           92.0     1,150.5    1,242.5
Training Costs                             2,193.2       473.5    2,666.7
Salaries of Project Staff                    293.7        --         293.7
Contractual Fees for Substitute Teachers 2,799.8          --       2,799.8
Other Operating Costs                        539.0       808.6    1,347.6
Total Base Cost                            6,786.5     5,076.5   11,863.0
Physical Contingencies                        86.9       264.4       351.3
Price Contingencies                        1,082.7       711.8    1,794.5
Total Project Cost                         7,956.1     6,052.7   14,008.8
Rounded                                7 950.0      6 050.0   142000.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
Organization
IDA                                          6,350       6,050      12,400
Government                                   1,600         -         1,600
Total                                        7950         05        14.00!
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
______      -(US  Million)            - 
Term
Annual                0.7      0.8       1.6      2.9      3.8       2.6
Cumulative            0.7      1.5      3.1       6.0      9.8      12.4
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.



- vli -
Benefits
and Risks:               The main benefit of the proposed project would be to
improve educational quality and strengthen the efficiency
of sectoral management. In the short-term, the
professional skills of all primary teachers and of lower
secondary math and science teachers would be upgraded, and
facilities would be improved to provide a better learning
environment. In the long-term, through institutional
development and policy dialogue, the project would provide
the sector with the capacity to carry out integrated
sectoral planning, to optimize the use of physical and
teaching resources, to establish a system of school
maintenance to be handled by local communities, and to
plan and implement investment programs. The project has
three major risks. The first concerns the Government's
financial constraints. To address this problem, the
project has been designed to minimize recurrent costs and
to ensure the gradual entry of substitute teachers into
the Government's budgetary allocations by phasing the
Government's contribution to incremental recurrent costs
in annual increments of 20Z. The second risk concerns the
ability of the Government to implement the project in a
timely manner. To minimize this risk, the project
includes elements to strengthen the organizational units
responsible for educational planning, administration and
project implementation--a process of institution building
begun under the First Education Project. The third risk
is that the quality improvement objectives of the project
may be endangered if students are unable to purchase
textbooks because of shortages or excessive prices. To
minimize this risk, the project includes a component
aiming at increasing the availability of textbooks at
reduced cost.
Map: IBRD 18680
WAPED
March 1985



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
EDUCATIONAL DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Togo has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a five-year project to continue the support provided by the First
Education Project (Credit 1018-TO, signed September 15, 1980). The proposed
project is designed to (a) improve the quality of education, and (b) improve the
management of education. The estimated project cost is US$14.0 million
equivalent. The Government would contribute about US$1.6 million equivalent,
leaving US$12.4 million to be externally financed.
1.02      IDA's support of the proposed project is justified by two factors.
First, although the African Development Bank (AfDB), the French "Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation" (FAC) and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) have also been extending financial assistance to the education sector in
Togo, IDA is the only donor agency that has provided broad support to primary and
lower secondary education (USAID has provided some support to agricultural
education at the lower secondary level). IDA has thereby become the lead donor
agency in discussing broad policy issues in primary and secondary education with
the Government. Second, the Government, in light of its financial constraints,
needs assistance to improve the quality of education and sectoral management
capability. Since initiatives in these areas have already been taken under the
First Education Project, IDA's follow-up support is Important. The Basic Data
Sheet is at Annex 1-1.
1I. TBE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A. Overview
2.01      Togo, with net First and Second Degree enrollment ratios of 632 and 432,
is one of the few West African countries where universal access to a 10-year basic
education cycle could be achieved by the end of the century If the past decade's
trend in the growth of annual enrollments continues. Rapid expansion has resulted
partly from the exceptionally strong public demand for education (education is
seen as a passport to civil service employment), and partly from the Government's
control of educational costs at the primary and lower secondary levels.
Developments, however, are threatening achievement of universal access to a
10-year basic education cycle. In contrast to the growth experienced in the
1970s, the gross enrollment ratio in the First Degree, calculated on the basis of
5-14 age group, declined from 72Z in 1980-81 to 662 in 1982-83. The reasons for
this decline have not been determined. There Is some reason to believe that the
freeze on civil service hiring is partly responsible by creating doubt in the
minds of parents that schooling guarantees a modern sector job for their children.
Further, underfunding by the Government of the First and Second Degrees has caused



SAR                                      - 2 -
the quality of schooling to deteriorate. Without remedial measures, which the
Government is finding difficult to take in the llght of its economic and financial
problems, enrollments and the cost-efficiency of the system will deteriorate
further. Annex 2-1 provides a table of Comparative Education Indicators,
indicating how Togo's education system compares to others. Annex 2-2 shows
enrollment growth by educational level between 1975 and 1983.
B. The Education System
2.02      In structure and organization, Togo's education system is similar to
that of other French-speaking West African countries. A primary cycle of six
years (First Degree) Is followed by a four-year lower secondary cycle (Second
Degree) and a three-year upper secondary cycle (Third Degree) from which students
graduate with a baccalaureate. Togo's university (Fourth Degree) was established
in 1974. Technical education is offered at five Second Degree institutions and
two Third Degree lycfes. The latter avard a technical baccalaureate. Qualified
teachers are trained In Togo for the First, Second and Third Degrees, and abroad
for the university. Annex 2-3 provides a chart showing the organization of the
education system.
C. Organization and Management of Education
2.03      Until recently, the general education system was administered by the
Ministry of First and Second Degrees (MFSD) and the Ministry of Third and Fourth
Degrees (MTFD). The MTFD, in addition to Third and Fourth Degree schooling, was
responsible for all essential First and Second Degree support functions (e.g.,
teacher training, curriculum development, planning), leaving the MFSD responsible
mainly for the delivery of education through its decentralized system of
inspectorates. During project preparation, the Government and IDA discussed the
administrative inefficiency caused by the MTFD having jurisdiction over planning,
statistics, school mapping and construction (in the Directorate General of
Educational Planning, "Direction Ginfrale de Is Planification de l'Education" -
DGPE) and curriculum development and teacher training (in the Directorate of
Teacher Training and Curriculum Development, "Direction de la Formation Permoanente
de l'Action et de la Recherche Scientifique" - DIFOP) for the First and Second
Degrees. Aware of the need to improve the efficiency of educational management,
on September 13, 1984, the Government combined the two ministries into a single
Ministry of National Education.
2.04      Agricultural education is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Responsibility for vocational and technical education, as a result
of the recent ministerial reorganization, has been moved from the former MTFD to a
new Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training in order to establiah
a more effective relationship with emplovers and to emphasize employment-oriented
traln ng.



SAR                                     - 3 -
D. Main Issues in Education
1.  Quality of Education
2.05      The quality of education at the primary ant lower secondary levels is
low, as evidenced by high repetition, dropout and failure rates. In the First
Degree, 15% of a cohort starting the school year in 1981-82 dropped out prior to
reaching Grade 2 and only 44% of the same cohort reached Grade 6. During the
1982-83 achool year, 422 of the students enrolled in Grade 6 were repeaters, and
only 472 of the children passed the examination for entry to lower secondary
school. Finally, only 12X of the students who completed the Second Degree entered
the Third Degree.
2.06      Several factors are adversely affecting the quality of education at the
primary and lower secondary levels, the most striking being the extremely low
percentage of qualified teachers at both these levels. Only 10% of the First
Degree teaching staff and 24% of the Second Degree teachers have been
professionnally trained. Within the latter, only 16% of the math and science
teachers have professional qualifications. The overall quality of math and
science teaching also suffers from the fact that the better students are attracted
to the private sector because of higher salaries than in the teaching profession.
Secondly, student working conditions are very poor. Teaching and learning
equipment and materials are scarce. Textbooks, most of which are bought by
parents, are expensive. At the primary level, 20 students frequently share one
book. Thirdly, the curricula at both levels are too abstract and divorced from
the students'environment. In math and science, which are the weakest subjects
taught at the Second Degree, theory is overemphasized at the expense of practical
application; moreover, teaching materials for these two subjects are nonexistent.
Ftnally, the physical facilities are not conducive to efficient learning.
Thirty-six percent of the primary classrooms are temporary shelters; the
remainder, built mainly by rural coommnities, have deteriorated badly due to lack
of maintenance. In 1982 the mainten&nce budget for all school buildings (except
the university) was about US$48,000, which translates to about US$4 per classroom.
Enrollments by grade (1982-83) are shown in Annex 2-4, and Annex 2-5 shows the
number of primary teachers by category and level of educational degree.
2.07      As the low quality of education is partly responsible for the current
decrease in enrollments at the primary level (para 2.01) and for the low academic
standards in oath and science at the lower secondary level, action is needed to
address the most deficient factors - namely, teacher qualifications, math and
science teaching, and student working conditions, Including scarcity of textbooks.
2.  Management of Education
2.08      Management of the sector suffers from inefficiencies in (a) budgeting
and financing, (b) use of the existiug capacity, and (c) administration.
2.09      Budgetary allocations and financing constraints.  There are four major
issues related to the costs and financing of education. First, education
expenditures are skewed in favor of the Third and Fourth Degrees. Per-student
costs at the upper secondary and university levels are high - US$445 (117% of GNP
per capita) and US$3,195 (841% of GNP per capita) respectively in 1983 (compared
to 18% and 119% of GNP per capita for secondary and higher education in South



SAR                                      - 4 -
Asian countries). This is due to a generous fellowship policy (about 16X of total
education expenditures was for fellowships during the 1982-83 school year) and
relatively high salaries for upper secondary and university teachers. Second,
donor assistance is unevenly distributed. While parental contributions are spread
equally among all levels of education, the major part of external assistance
finances the Third and Fourth Degrees (primarily fellowships and expatriate
teacher salaries). Third, costs at the primary level, now low, are likely to
increase. Until now, the Government has been able to keep the per student costs
at the primary level the lowest in the region: US$28 (7Z of GNP per capita as
compared to 292 of GNP per capita in other francophone African countries) during
the 1982-83 school year. This is because the average salary of primary school
teachers is only about twice the GNP per capita and teacher/student ratios are on
the high end of the acceptable range (1:47). This low cost, however, is likely to
increase because: (a) in 1982, the Government raised the minimum entry-level
requirements into the teaching profession and therefore the salaries of teachers;
and (b) since the 1980-81 academic year, enrollments at all levels began to
decrease. Fourth, as a result of the Government's austerity program, the
education budget has been declining in real terms since 1983. These factors make
it important that the Government review the financing of the education system and
develop a more equitable and efficient allocation of resources within the sector.
Annex 2-6 gives a comparison of recurrent costs per student in selected West
African countries. Annex 2-7 shows education expenditures and number of students
by educational level, Annex 2-8 the distribution of the education budget by
category of expenditures, and Annex 2-9 the sources of education financing.
2.10      Capacity utilization.  Due to inadequate monitoring of the education
system and inadequate planning and coordination among the different departments,
existing physical and teaching resources are used inefficiently. Despite the
regulation limiting each pupil to one repetition during the primary education
cycle, approximately 15 years of schooling must be provided to produce one primary
school graduate. In 1982-83, 26% of primary students and 62% of lower secondary
students were over-age. More efficient use of teaching time is needed at both
urban and rural schools. In rural areas, student/teacher ratios are low;
expansion of multi-grade teaching would reduce costs substantially. In contrast,
overcrowding in urban schools would better be addressed through use of the
double-shift system (in 1982-83, the teacher/pupil ratio in Lome was 1:55, as
opposed to the national average of 1:47). Finally, for efficiency of
learning/teaching, improvement of physical facilities is necessary so that loss of
teaching hours under inclement weather conditions can be minimized. An improved
sector planning capability would permit the Government to make better use of
existing capacity.
2.11      Efficiency of administration.  During implementation of the First
Education Project, a major source of administrative inefficiency resulted from the
lack of communication and coordination between the two ministries of education.
Following the recent merger of these two ministries (para 2.03), it is expected
that the decision-making process will be faster, and coordination between the
operating and support departments will improve. The second source of inefficiency
concerns two of the sector service institutions, curricula development/teacher
training (DIFOP) and planning (DGPE). The strengthening of the DIFOP is key to
long-term improvement in the quality of the teaching/learning process (paras
2.05-2.07). The reorganization and the strengthening of the DGPE is key to the
preparation of educational development strategies and financing plans appropriate



SAR                                     - 5 -
to sectoral and manpower needs and current budgetary cowstraints (paras 2.08-
2.10).
E. Government Strategy for Educational Development
2.12      The Government's strategy for the sector is set forth in the 1975
Education Reform. The Reform emphasizes, inter alia, the need to: (a) create an
equitable education system that will provide adult training opportunities and
universal lover secondary education; (b) improve the quality of education through
teacher training and upgrading, and through adoption of improved curricula,
partlcularly for mathematics and science; (c) improve the match between the
outputs of the education system and the country's manpower requirements; and (d)
improve educational planning. Despite current economic and financial constraints,
the Government has taken three steps to implement these policies. First, it has
made progress towards implementing a mandatory 10-year basic education cycle.
This effort, however, has been slowed by the Government's precarious financial
position. Second, the quality of education at the primary and lover secondary
levels is being improved through the development of new curricula, including the
use of local languages of instruction at the First Degree, through expansion of
teacher training and upgrading programs, &ad through improving math and science
teaching at the Second Degree. The latter involves the use of relatively modest
basic equipment, prepared by teachers from local materials. And finally, steps
are being taken to strengthen educational planning capabilities. One recent
development was the opening of five regional planning units.
F. External Assistance to Education
2.13      The major external support for education came from France, which
provided 34% of total external assistance in 1982-83. Additional assistance came
from AfDB and USAID. In 1982-83, 25% of the total expenditures for education was
financed through external assistance; of this, 60% went for teacher salaries and
fellowships. French Aid provided salaries for Third and Fourth Degree teachers,
fellowships for Fourth Degree students, and assistance to carry out DIFOP's
activities. AfDB, which provided 16% of the external assistance, supported the
construction and operation of two technical schools, one of which includes a
technical teacher traiaing section, and assisted the Government in setting up and
organizing the former Directorate of Technical Education and Vocational Training
(para 2.04). IJSAID, which provided 9Z of the external assistance, financed
teacher salaries and curriculum development for the introduction of agricultural
subjects at the Second Degree level. Assistance from other donors (17%) was used
primarily to finance teacher salaries and fellowships. The Bank Group provided
the remaining 24% of external assistance.



SAR                                       6-
G.  The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development
1.   The Bank Group's Previous Involvement
2.14      The First Education Project, for US$11.0 million, assisted the
Government to: (a) upgrade the quality of teachers through construction of two
primary teacher colleges and the financing of upgrading programs; (b) reorganize
and strengthen the curriculum development/teacher training unit (DIFOP) to prepare
teacher upgrading programs; and (c) train agricultural tLehnicians, teachers of
agricultural sciences for secondary schools, and advisers to the primary
inspectors for teaching agriculture in primary schools. Physical implementation
of the project was completed six months behind schedule. Costs exceeded appraisal
estimates by 28%, due to supplementary works agreed between the Government and
IDA. The new institutions are being used and maintained satisfactorily. Training
and upgrading of teachers, now progressing satisfactorily, initially incurred
delays because of the Government's inability to finance teacher salaries. The
Credit Agreement was amended to finance these salaries. Because of the delays
incurred in the teacher training and upgrading program, it is expected that the
Closing Date of the First Education Project will need to be extended from June 30,
1985, to June 30, 1986.
2.   Sectoral Lendlng Objectives
2.15      In support of the educational objectives and strategies of the
Government's Education Reform (para 2.12), which are essentially sound, IDA's
objectives are to improve the quality of education and management of the sector,
and to reduce education costs.
2.16      Quality of education.  With the First Education Project (Cr. 1018-TO),
institutionalized primary teacher training was begun (para 2.14). By the end of
the implementation period of the proposed project, all primary teachers' skills
would be upgraded and the number of textbooks available to students would be
increased substantially. The proposed project would provide the initial quality
improvement at the lower secondary level by upgrading teaching skills in the
currently weak math and science areas. Similar efforts in other subject matter
areas at the lower and upper secondary schools as well as math and science at the
latter would be necessary in the future. To improve the learning environment, the
proposed project addresses development of a capability for school rehabilitation
and for preventive maintenance by rural communities and teachers; this would
require continued monitoring and intensified effort in the future. At both the
primary and lower secondary levels, efforts to improve the quality of education
must include student access to textbooks.
2.17      Sector naement.  The First Education Project focused on strengthening
curriculum development and teacher training capabilities through reorganization of
the DIFOP. Two further important improvements in sector management are attributed
to the proposed project.  First, merger of the two ministries of education, which
was a point of discussion between IDA and the Government during project
preparation, has now been accomplished (para 2.11). Second, the project provides
for strengthening and reorganization of the DGPE into management units for
planning, construction/maintenance and project implementation -- each with clearly
defined responsibilities. Studies and technical assistance to be provided under
the project would enable IDA and the Government to maintain policy dialogue to



SAR                                     - 7 -
further strengthen sector management.  Future projects would also need to focus on
redesigning the examination system and bringing the output of the vocational
technical training system more closely in line with the demands of the labor
market.
2.18      Cost control.  The project seeks to reduce overall and per student costs
through more efficient resource utilization, development of low-cost school
maintenance capability, and reduction of textbook costs. More importantly, it
provides assistance for studies to propose ways to reduce costs of higher
education. Further support, beyond the project, would be needed to put
cost-reduction measures into place. In FY86, the Bank/Unesco Cooperative Program
will undertake sector work with primary focus on education financing and
expenditure control.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The project, identified by IDA in September 1982, and prepared by the
Government with assistance from the Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program, would be
implemented over a five-year period. It has two major obiectives: to improve the
quality of education, and to improve the management of education. To improve the
quality of education at the primary level, 5,850 teachers would be upgraded
through an integrated training program and the cost of textbooks would be reduced
to make them more affordable for primary school students; at the lower secondary
level, about 1,250 math and science teachers would be upgraded through an
integrated training program, and physical facilities for math and science teaching
would be improved. To improve the management of education, the Directorate
General of Educational Planning would be strengthened and reorganized into three
divisions: to develop the Government's capability to improve educational
planning, financing and efficient resource allocation; to develop a school
rehabilitation program and a maintenance capability in local communities; and to
improve project preparation and implementation. Annex 3-1 gives details on the
implementation of the project components. Document Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in
the Project File provide further details on objectives, strategies and financing
of the project.
1.   Improving the Quality of Education
3.02      Primary school improvement.  To improve the quality of education at the
primary level, about 5,850 teachers lacking professional qualifications (para
2.06) would be provided training to upgrade their teaching skills and subject-
matter knowledge, and 60 inspectors and pedagogical advisers would be provided
training to improve pedagogical support and guidance to the teachers.  In
parallel, to reduce costs of textbooks to make them more affordable, the
Ministry's textbook agency ("Librairie des Mutuelles Scolaires" - LIMUSCO) would
be strengthened to improve textbook development, production and distribution.
3.03      The in-service training would be equivalent to that provided to new
teachers at the Primary Teachers Colleges (ENIs). Each teacher would undergo
upgrading through an integrated program consisting of three types of training:



SAR                                     - 8 -
(a) a one-year correspondence course; (b) three one-veek seminars organized at the
inspectorate level and conducted by inspectors and pedagogical advisers; and (c) a
three-month upgrading course at one of the two ENIs. About 1,350 teachers would
be upgraded each year, with 450 participating each quarter during the academic
year in the three-month course at the ENIs. While attending the upgrading course,
the teachers would be replaced by 450 substitute teachers. This upgrading program
represents an expansion of the pilot program which is being successfully
implemented under the First Education Project. The 450 substitute teachers are
currently employed on a contractual basis in this program.
3.04      The training of the 60 inspectors/pedagogical advisers to improve
on-the-job pedagogical support to teachers, will be provided on an annual basis
during the first three years of the project in a one-week seminar at the DIFOP
during which the participants would be taught the strategies for conducting
teacher training seminars. Pedagogical innovations, improved teaching methods and
use of new curricula would be part of seminar programs. A selected number of the
inspectors/pedagogical advisers will also participate in observation trips outside
the country. The in-service training programs of both teachers and
inspectors/pedagogical advisers would be the responsibility of the Director of
First Degree Education, and would be implemented by a coordinator in charge of
teacher upgrading, who will be assisted by the inspectors, the two ENI directors,
and the Correspondence Course Section of the DIFOP.
3.05      To assist the Ministry of Education not only to meet the urgent
short-term needs for primary textbooks and reduce their cost (para 2.06), but
also, over the long-term, to improve the interna' efficiency of education, the
project would strengthen the LIM3USCO, which would produce, adapt, procure and
distribute low-cost textbooks for the primary schools. Assistance to the LIMUSCO
would focus on (a) setting up a Textbook Production Department in charge of
writing and editing new textbooks and/or adapting existing textbooks to the local
environment; (b) strengthening the existing capacity for purchasing textbooks; and
Cc) improving existing storage and distribution capabilities. During project
Implementation, an initial stock of textbooks would be set up. Future sales from
this stock of textbooks would allow for the creation of a revolving fund which
would serve as the base for a mechanism that would be self-financing for the
further purchase of textbooks.
3.06      For the total training and upgrading programs, project funds would
finance: furniture and equipment for placing about 18 pedagogical advisers at the
inspectorates; 47 manmouths of foreign fellowships; per diem and travel costs for
about 500 manyears of local training; the contractual fees for substitute
teachers; and operating costs (transport and administrative expenses). For the
textbook component, prolect funds would finance: (a) civil works to rehabilitate
the LIMJSCO's central offices and central and regional storage facilities; (b)
furniture and equipment for the central offices; (c) 36 manmonths of specialist
services and 8 manmonths of fellowships; and (d) operating expenditures. Funds
for purchasing and/or producing initial stocks of textbooks would also be
provided. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will: (a)
retain the 450 substitute teachers for the five-year period of the project; (b)
contribute to the financing of the contractual fees for the substitute teachers on
an incremental basis, paying 20% in the 1986-87 school year, 40% in 1987-88, 60%
in 1988-89 and 80% in 1989-90; and tc) hire suitably qualified substitute teachers
as regular teachers starting in the 1990-91 school year (Annex 3-1, paras 2-12).



SAR                                     - 9-
3.07      Lower secondary school improvement.  To upgrade the current low quality
of math and science education (para 2.06), the project would (a) establish an
integrated program in math and science teacher and inspector upgrading, and (b)
improve science facilities, including the provision of basic instructional
materials and equipment.
3.08      The integrated program in math and science teacher and inspector
upgrading would provide training to about 1,250 teachers and 21 inspectors.
During implementation of the project, the math and science teachers would attend
annual 10-day seminars. Provided to groups of about 50/60 teachers, the seminars
would be offered about 20 times each year and would cover: modern teaching
methods, based on demonstration and practice rather than theory; the use of
instructional guides; the building of simple demonstration materials and
equipment; and techniques of linking the material taught to students' daily lives.
Further, the math and science inspectors would attend one 10-day seminar each
year. The inspectors' training program would include the same subjects as the
teachers' program so that they can keep abreast of the training being provided to
teachers in order to monitor their on-the-job performance and provide assistance
as necessary. To support teacher upgrading, the DIFOP would continue to prepare
and distribute pedagogical guides, and develop prototypes of simple math and
science equipment to be duplicated by teachers during the training seminars.
3.09      To address the problem of inadequate science facilities, project funds
would finance a construction and rehabilitation program geared specifically to
math and science teaching, which would include: (a) conversion of 10 existing
laboratories and construction of 11 laboratories (at least two in each of the six
regions) to be used primarily for teacher training; (b) construction of a
prototype workshop and expansion of the existing laboratory at the DIFOP; (c)
rehabilitation of one laboratory at the Third Degree Teacher Training College at
Atakpame; and (d) conversion of 262 existing classrooms in 234 lower secondary
schools into science rooms. In addition, the laboratories, workshop and science
rooms would be furnished and provided with basic instructional materials and
equipment. (The estimated base cost of construction is shown in Annex 3-3.)
3.10      The DIFOP would be primarily responsible for implementing project
activities covering math and science education, i.e., teacher and inspector
training, production of teacher guides and prototypes, and preparation of
equipment lists. The Division of School Construction and Maintenance would be
responsible for the related civil works. A special coordinator would have the
overall responsibility for timely execution of all project activities related to
lower secondary school improvement (Annex 3-1, paras 13-22).
3.11      For teacher training/upgrading, including the production of teacher
guides and prototypes, the project would provide financing for furniture and
equipment; 54 mammonths of specialist services and 57 manmonths of fellowships;
per diem and travel costs for about 238 manyears of local training; and operating
costs (transport and administrative expenses).  For improvement of physical
facilities, the project would provide financing for construction/rehabilitation,
and furniture and equipment for the facilities detailed in para 3.09 above.



SAR                                    -10 -
2.   Improving the Management of Education
3.12      To improve the management of the education sector, the DGPE would be
reorganized into three divisions: the Educational Planning Division (DPE), the
School Construction and Maintenance Division, and the Project Implementation
Division (the organigram of the reorganized DGPE is illustrated on page 8 of Annex
3-1). Each division would be given specific responsibilities and accountability
as indicated below. The incremental staff requirements would be met through
transfers from the School Guidance Directorate, which is currently overstaffed
with well-trained educators and educational planners. Formal reorganization of
the DGPE and the creation, under the DGPE Director's authority, of three
independent divisions, and the appointment of the three Division Chiefs, was
confirmed by the Government. During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that it will transfer from other departments all additional Togolese staff
required for the reorganized DGPE (Annex 3-1, para 23).
3.13      Strengthening of educational planning.  To address the issues of skewed
budgetary allocations and financial constraints, and inefficient capacity
utilization, the project would assist the Educational Planning Division, created
under the reorganization of the DGPE, to build up its planning and analytical
capability. During the project execution period, the Educational Planning
Division would provide four specific outputs. One would be an analysis of
educational financing, in particular of the current budgetary allocations and
expenditures; this study, to be completed by December 31, 1986, would make
proposals to decrease the per-student costs at the Third and the Fourth Degrees,
improve cost-efficiency of the system, reduce the fellowship budget, and provide a
more equitable distribution of funds among the different educational levels in the
light of budgetary constraints and manpower requirements. On the basis of the
study, the Educational Planning Division would develop by December 31, 1987, a
comprehensive long-term financing plan. Further, during the life of the project,
the Division would conduct on an ongoing basis an evaluation of the upgrading
programs for teachers at the primary level and for math and science teachers at
the lower secondary level, and would submit to IDA reports on December 31, 1987
and December 31, 1989. Finally, it would prepare during 1986-87 a school location
plan.
3.14      To help achieve these goals and ensure the completion of the studies
described in the above two paragraphs, the Educational Planning Division would
conduct local training programs. All of the 63 First and Second Degree
Inspectors, appropriate division staff, and headmasters of lower secondary schools
would attend, on an annual basis, a six-day seminar which would provide training
on techniques of collecting educational statistics, preparing school maps,
conducting interviews and surveys for program evaluation, and regional planning
problems. Division staff would be provided fellowships to study their respective
areas and would receive on-the-job training from specialists funded by the
proposed IDA credit. The project would finance civil works, furniture and
equipment to house the expansion of the Division; 26 manmonths of specialist
services; 122 manmonths of fellowships; travel and per diem costs of about 130
manyears of local training; and operating expenses (transport, and administrative
expenses) (Annex 3-1, paras 24-27).



SAR                                    -11-
3.15      Development of a school rehabilitation and maintenance capability.  To
increase the Government's capacity to manage school construction and maintenance,
the project would strengthen the School Construction and Maintenance Division to
be created under the reorganization of the DGPE. The new Division would have
three responsibilities: (a) to construct new schools; (b) to set up a preventive
maintenance program at all schools so that inspectors, teachers and parents'
associations would be responsible for preventive maintenance; aud (c) to
rehabilitate schools. The existing unit, out of which the new Division would be
created, currently is handling only the first of these functions, namely the
construction of new schools. The Preventive Maintenance Program, which would be
new, would (a) train six regional supervisors and 63 Inspectors of First and
Second Degrees at seven-day seminars each year, over a five-year period, to
explain the need for preventive maintenance and how to do it; (b) prepare
maintenance manuals for distribution to headmasters and inspectors; (c) provide
materials for maintenance to parents' associations, inspectors and teachers; and
(d) supervise maintenance. The Rehabilitation Program, which also would be new,
would (a) refurbish and provide minor repairs for the 262 classrooms to be
converted into science rooms (para 3.09); (b) provide maintenance at the two ENIs;
and (c) identify rehabilitation needs through ongoing surveys and supervise the
work.
3.16      The project would finance civil works, furniture and equipment for
establishing the School Constructiun and Maintenance Division; civil works for
school rehabilitation; 8 manmonths of consultant services; 12 manmonths of
fellowships; per diem and travel costs for 14 manmonths of local training; and
operating costs (transport, administrative expenses, and building materials to
parents' associations for maintenance of 1,430 classrooms, which would represent
50% cf the estimated total maintenance cost) (Annex 3-1, paras 28-34).
3.17      Strengthening of project implementation.  To enhance the capability of
the Government to manage ongoing projects and prepare new ones, the project would
strengthen the Project Implementation Division to be created under the
reorganization of the DGPE (para 2.17). Through technical assistance and
training, the Division's administrative and accounting sections would be
strengthened. The project would assist the Project Implementation Division to:
(a) monitor and ensure timely execution of all administrative and financial
aspects of education projects; (b) create and implement a project accounting
system; and (c) prepare future education projects in cooperation with the Division
of Educational Planning. In addition to the on-the-job training to be provided by
expatriate specialists in project preparation, accounting and management, the
project would provide foreign fellowships in educational financing and management.
Moreover, the Division would conduct one short seminar each year for five years
for inspectors, section chiefs, and other educational officials on educational
planning, cost-efficiency and the role of donor agencies. Project funds would
finance civil works, furniture and equipment for expansion of the DEPE, 6
manmonths of consultant services, 10 manmonths of foreign fellowships and
observation visits, travel and per diem costs for 10 manmonths of local training,
and operating costs (transport, and administrative expenses). (Annex 3-1, paras
35-38).



SAR                                    - 12-
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.18      The estimated total cost of the project is US$14.0 million equivalent.
The project would be exempt from all taxes and duties. The estimated foreign
exchange component is .US$6.1 million equivalent, representing about 43% of total
project cost. Cost estimates are given in January 1985 prices. The project would
include contingency allowances for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of
the base cost for civil works, furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for
price escalation is about 15% of base cost plus physical contingencies. Price
contingencies have been applied for all categories except salaries of project
staff and contractual fees for substitute teachers, as follows: 1985, 52; 1986,
7.5Z; 1987-90, 8Z. For salaries of project staff and contractual fees for
substitute teachers, price contingencies of 0% for 1985, and 4X per annum
1986-1990, bave been applied. Inflation rates are assumed to be equal for both
foreign and local costs because of compensatory exchange rate adjustments. The
project would be financed by IDA (US$12.4 million equivalent or 89% of total
project costs) and the Government (US$1.6 million equivalent, or 11X of total
project costs). Annex 3-2 gives the major assumptions in arriving at the cost
estimates as well as the detailed project costs by component and cost categories,
the way they will be financed, and the breakdown of total foreign exchange and
local costs of the project by category and by year. Annex 3-3 gives the base cost
estimates for civil works.
C. Project Implementation
3.19      Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of National Education through the Project Implementation Division (DEPE),
which would be responsible for timely coordination and execution of all project
activities described in Section B above. Detailed Working Papers were finalized
during appraisal; they include detailed civil works programs, furniture and
equipment lists, and terms of reference for coansultants. Project design work is
at a sufficiently advanced stage to permit physical implementation to start in
July 1985. The project is expected to be physically completed by July 1990. To
permit time to complete final disbursements and orderly closure of project
accounts, the Closing Date is scheduled for June 30, 1991. The Implementation
Schedule is at Annex 3-4.



SAR                                     - 13-
1.   Procurement
3.20      Procurement arrangements are summarized below.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ millions)
Project Element                      Procurement Methods
(Amounts in parentheses indicate
amount of IDA participation)
Total
Project
ICB       LCB       Other     N.A.    Cost
Civil Works                   --       1.16        0.13 a/            1.29
C--)    (1.16)      (0.13)    (-)      (1.29)
Furniture                     --       0.27         --       --       0.27
C- )    (0.27)       ()        (-)     (0.27)
Equipment (incl.              2.30 b/  0.31 c/    0.10       .,       2.71
vehicles)                  (2,30)   (0.31)      (0.10)    ()       (2.71)
Consultant Services           --        --         1.39      __       1.39
t*__)  (_)    ~(1.39)      -)     (1.39)
Training Costs                --        --         0.52 d/  2.79 el  3.31
''-)     (-)        (0.52)   (2.79)   (3.31)
Contractual Fees for Sub-
stitute Teachers and        --        --          --      3.36      3.36
Salaries of Project        (--)      (-)         (-)     (1.76)   (1.76)
Staff
Other Operating Costs f/      --        -           --      1.67      1.67
_4=,2,   ,  2        = .i. £L-Z2  4LLZ2
Total Project                2.30      1.74        2.14     7.82    14.00
L~2.     &1.74       ,2.414   (6.22)  512.402
a/   For small civil works contracts (some performed by force account) for less
than US$10,000 and not to exceed an aggregate of US$130,000.
b/   Includes equipment for science rooms and laboratories and textbooks for
primary level.
c/   Office supplies and equipment in bid packages of less than US$50,000 to
be procured locally.
d/   Fellowships for training abroad.
e/   Local and on-the-job training.
f/   Includes incremental vehicle maintenance costs, office supplies, and
indemnities.



SAR                                    - 14 -
3.21      Civil works would be procured through LCB, except for contracts for
rehabilitation valued at less than US$10,000, which would be handled by force
account and/or by inviting three local quotations. The nature of the civil works
and the large number of small buildings scattered in remote areas would not
attract overseas firms. Where possible, equipment would be grouped into bid
packages large enough to attract bids under ICB- Small and diverse contracts for
furniture and equipment, not to exceed US$50,000 each, would be obtained under
LCB. For very small procurement items (US$10,000 and under), local sbopping
procedures would be used. Consultant services and fellowships for training abroad
(100% of which is expected to be spent outside Togo) would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Goods manufactured locally would be given a
preference margin of up to 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less.
All procurement decisions whose estimated costs exceed US$50,000 equivalent would
be subject to IDA's prior review. For contracts valued at between US$10,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent, two conformed copies of each contract would be subject to
ex-post review by IDA before withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Special
Account. For contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, the Government
would hold them for IDA's random audit review. During negotiations the Government
confirmed its intention to apply these procurement methods. Annex 3-5 gives a
more detailed description of the procurement procedures to be used, Annex 3-6 a
suimary of specialist services, and Annex 3-7 a summary of fellowships.



SAX                                     - 15 -
2.   Disbursements
3.22      The proposed IDA credit of US$12.4 million equivalent is expected to be
disbursed by June 30, 1991.  The credit proceeds would be disbursed on the basis
of the table below. The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule Is shown in
Annex 3-8.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
% Total of Estimated
Amount   Cost to be Disbursed
Item                         (US$'000)       from IDA Credit
Civil works (including building
materials and transportation)               1,300          100
Furniture                                     300          100
Equipment                                   2,700          100
Consultant services                         1,400          100
Training costs                              2,800          100
Contractual fees for substitute
teachers a!                                 1,800          100
July 1, 1985-June 30, 1986            (550)       (100)
July 1, 1986-June 30, 1987            (500)        (80)
July 1, 1987-June 30, 1988            (400)        (60)
July 1, 1988-June 30, 1989            (250)        (40)
July 1, 1989-June 30, 1990            (100)        (20)
Other operating costs                       1,300          100
Initial disbursement for the
Special Account                               500
Unallocated                                   300
Total                                      12 400 b/
a/   IDA contribution on a declining basis.
bl   About 30% of the proposed IDA credit is expected to be spent offshore.



SAlt                                   - 16-
3.   Recurrenc Cost Implications
3.23      The incremental recurrent cost to the Government as a result of the
project would be generated mainly by expenditures for the 450 substitute teachers.
The cost of other project staff also to be borne by the Government would not be
incremental due to transfers from other services. The total Government
contribution to the project would represent about 5% (including contingencies) of
the 1982-83 Mlinistry of National Education budget. The Government would undertake
to pay the contractual fees for the substitute teachers on an increasing basis
(para 3.06), starting in school year 1986/87 and reaching full funding by school
year 1990-91. Since the number of new teachers needed to compensate for normal
attrition in the teaching force is about 350 per annum, the hiring of 450 teachers
over the five-year period of the project (90 teachers/year) would not result in an
increase in the public sector wage bill. It is expected that sales of textbooks
would suffice to cover replenishment, including distribution and losses.
Therefore, no incremental recurrent cost would be generated by the textbook
component. The Government's contribution to the project is shown in detail in
Annex 3-9.
4.   Special Account
3.24      A Special Account of US$500,000 equivalent, denominated in CFA francs,
would be established in a comuercial bank by the Government.  The Special Account
would cover about three months of project expenditures. The Special Account would
be replenished on the basis of Government withdrawal requests. Reimbursements
would be aggregated into applications of not less than US$20,000 equivalent for
submission to IDA. The Special Account would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The Government would be responsible for reimbursing
the Special Account for any expenditures not acceptable to IDA. All disbursements
from the IDA Credit would be fully documented except those which would be
reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures (which would comprise
disbursements for project expenditures for civil works, goods and services with a
value below US$10,000 equivalent, from the Special Account), in which case
documentation would not be submitted to IDA, but retained at the Project
Implementation Division for review by IDA and project auditors. The project
financial management and accounting arrangements are shown in Annex 3-10.
5.   Reporting and Auditing
3.25      The Project Implementation Division (DEPE) would maintain separate
accounts for the IDA Credit and for the Government's counterpart financing. These
accounts would be further separated into expenditures incurred by: the Primary
School Improvement Component; the School Construction and Maintenance Division;
and the Project Implementation Division. During negotiaticns, the Government gave
assurances that: (a) the project and special accounts and statements of
expenditure will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b) the Government vill submit the accounts and the auditors' reports to IDA
within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year; and (c) the
auditors' reports will be of such scope and in such detail as IDA might reasonably
request. As in the First Education Project, audit fees would be financed by the
IDA credit.



SAR                                    -17 -
3.26      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the DEPE will
submit (a) semi-annual reports to IDA on project implementation and expenditures;
and (b) a final report on the implementation experience and project outcomes
within six months of the Credit Closing Date.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01      The main benefit of the project would be to improve educational quality
and strengthen the efficiency of sectoral management. During the project
execution period, the professional skills of all primary and lower secondary math
and science teachers would be upgraded; inspectors and pedagogical advisers would
be trained to provide support to teachers; and physical facilities, in terms of
classrooms and equipment for math and science teaching, would be improved.
Further, through institutional development the project would provide the sector
with the capacity to carry out integrated sectoral planning, to optimize the use
of physical and teaching resources, to establish a system of school maintenance to
be handled by local communities, and to plan and implement investment programs.
B. Risks
4.02      The project has three major risks.  The first concerns the Government's
financial constraints. To address this problem, the project is designed to
minimize recurrent costs and to ensure the gradual entry of the substitute
teachers into the Government's budgetary allocations by phasing the Government's
contribution to incremental recurrent costs in annual increments of 20%. The
second risk concerns the ability of the Government to implement the project In a
timely manner. To minimize this risk, the project includes elements to strengthen
the organizational units responsible for educational planning, administration and
project implementation through organizational upgrading, technical assistance and
training, which would continue the process of institution building begun under the
First Education Project. The third risk is that the quality improvement
objectives of the project may be endangered if students are unable to purchase
textbooks because of shortages or excessive prices. To minimize this risk, the
project includes a component aiming at increasing the availability of textbooks at
reduced cost.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOWMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the Gover  ent gave assurances that it will:
(a) (i) retain the 450 substitute teachers for the life of the project; (ii)
contribute to the financing of their contractual fees on an increasing
basis, paying 20% in the 1986-87 school year, 40% in 1987-88, 60% in
1988-89, and 80% in 1989-90; and (iii) hire suitably qualified
substitute teachers as regular teachers starting in the 1990-91 school
year (para 3.06);



SAR                                    - 18 -
(b)  transfer from other departments all additional Togolese staff required
for the reorganized DGPE (para 3.12);
(c)  (i) have the project and special accounts and statements of expenditures
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) submit
the accounts and the auditors' report to IDA within six months of the
end of the Government's fiscal year; and (iii) ensure that the auditors'
reports are of such scope and in such detail as IDA might reasonably
request (para 3.25);
(d) have the DEPE Director submit (i) semi-annual progress reports to IDA on
project implementation and expenditures; and (ii) a final report on the
implementation experience and project achievements within six months of
the Credit Closing Date (para 3.26).
5.02      During negotiations, the Government and the Association reached
agreement on the reorganization of the DGPE (para 3.12).  This reorganization will
be formalized in an Arr^ete Ministeriel uhich will be signed by the Minister of
Education.
5.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$12.4 million equivalent to the Republic
of Togo.
WAPED
March 1985



- 19 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 2
TO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita                                     US$380
Land area                                          56,000 1m2
Population                                         2.7 million
of which:                 urban               25%
rural              75%
Population growth rate                             2.8Z
Life expectancy at birth                           47 years
Adult literacy rate                                about 20%
Enrollment in Education (1982-83)
Gross          Pupil/
Enrollment     Teacher
Total Enrollment   % Female   Ratio            Ratio
1st Degree        492,000            39         105%            48
2nd Degree         101,000           26          60%             30
3rd Degree          11,800           14          --              15
Technical
Education            6,500           28          -
4th Degree           3,800           14
Education Budget (1982-83)
Budgets of the two former Ministries
of Education:                                 CFAF 14,383 million
Z of total Government budget:                         19%



- 20 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 2
Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Education Expenditures (1982-83)
Primary (lst Degree)                                   33%
Lower Secondary (2nd Degree)                           19Z
Upper Secondary (3rd Degree)                           19%
University (4th Degree)                                29%
Average Annual Cost per Student (1982-83)
% of GNP
US$ equivalent      per capita
1st Degree                                          28              7
2nd Degree                                          82             22
3rd Degree                                         445            117
4th Degree                                       3,195            841
WAPED
December 1994



- 21 -
All1K 2-1
Co.wARaTr  mouWno  INDICAICC                                                        IaW.T77 2
warc 6. 1985
1x32 13m  EDCATw                              cOpILlTroN            Tasamr
ON KDUCAXTON  RRCURRNT       ARUT              RAil FOR             UI COST  PROCRISSON
CP PER              AS P*CENT        PfIrTfS  LITEURC  PREDAT PR54             PRIMARY  PRISM       RATE FrM   SECONAR JfOUARI 1r121R
BAE! POP. CAPITA  PERCENT CM? TOT   CENTRALAICAT   TO: RATE             comm. saws.         STUENTS  mD r     P1m? To  axNROLL.  STU5T   DU..
Er  HILLS. (on3)   COTfl TO  OVEUOCY    PRW   SC CU        t    CZ)    RATIO   CYCLE        PER       AS PERCINT SECONDAR    RATIO      PER         TIO
(1979) (1979)    lCATl fTlO RnInm    f          (I)       (1976)  (C)         CZ)      TEAait CN?JCAPITA        (7)       CZ)      71ACII3     (2)
COl)    (2)       (3)           (6)           (5)         (63       (7)     (C)         (9)       C1O)         (12)       (12)       (13)    (14)
D"CWLOED COIC5
AUSTRALIA D .     SO      46b  8,870       6.13       1.6         -    -    -     -         103'     J00         21                     99         73        11      20.90
CAUNAD            Sl    23.7b  9.650b    7.7'         18.3y?      3OT 37? 237?  99b        106'    100          21       19.9?        100         922       IS      22.60'
CENIANT 7.3.      79    61.2  12.200       4.6         9.9'       -     -           9- 6 n   g        zoo'       -         -           loo         94-       -       12.10.
N    ShDTASS      79    14.0  10 490       7.9         5.1        20   35   25     9?br    96         95         18        15.3         99         32        13       12.40
NEC ZEALAND       s0      3.2b  601 6       . 5-5V    13.4        37   31   23      gb      100      10D         24        11.6        lo         32        15      25.411)
SbZDP             79      8.3  12,250     Q.O         18.2        31   10   10     ggb       99'     100         18'       19.9        100         793       10J?   36.50CJ
EASTERN AFRICA
NOTSiAIA          82      1.06    75ob     -           _          49   28   11     62b       85       89         32        23.1         26          _        21       -
SCsI              81      4.2     235     2.8bw       10.0       43   28   27      25        29'      35         37       20.2          12          3x       17       1.00
wmars             80      0.6b   Z60       6.Sw       25.4        £0   28b  14     -         99g      65         4S        16.0         5J         21'       30       1.40
DIIIUTI           8£      0.4     480     3.0         11.9        73   26   ...    t0        £2       66         40       67.0          40         10        19       040
M5IOPtA          81    32.ME     1406    2.9P        38.7        £5   25   20      53       62       30'        63        19.3         93S        14        £        0.45
XKNA              32    17.4b    420b   53.7'         $ £3b       65   16   -      43b      113       58         36        14.4         35          28       26       -
L1sCUIo           82      1.46    435b    5.5         16.0        38   32   26      53b     116       £2 418               9.6          46         21        21        1.30
1UDAASCUA          77     8.5     330      4.0-       24.0        53   23   19      5n       94b      33         55b         .0         36          14       23       3.120y
ALA              81      6*jb    230b    3.5         11.4        38   14   25      253      62       23         65         5.J         12          6        21       0.40
NAOIRTIUS         83      1 ob  1170b    4.3          4.0       46   36    7      Rob       93       72         23        13.0        200         50        22       1.00
xUIDMA            83      3.5b    2606    2.7         24.5        72   16   12      3,b      66       62         6*       1330          10          7        14       0.40
SEIvELLES         79      0.6   1.770      5.9        22.46       346  33'20        -                            25       -             -          -         -       -
SOMALIA           81      6.5     230      1.5        10.5        50b  44b 6b    50b         22       *ob        2gb       9.0b         0ob        12b       22       11.0
soDA              80    19.2b    380b    3.0          -          66   39   ...    32         512      68         34         1.          44         16        16
SAZILAIU          83      0.7b    g40b    3.jpb       20.4        51   34   15     65        93       50         33        21.0         98        27         18       3.00
TANZAnA           80    18.5      260      5.9        17.7       47   IQ   16       79b      98b      87         43        11.0         2sb         3        20       0.30
UGAiDA            80    12.6b    300b    -            16.1"      23b  37b  20b    AN         54x      61         34       -             17          5        23       0.60
ZIRE             831    29.8b    210b    7.7          26.4        -    -    20     5Ab       76       25         30       21.0          *0         i8        28       2.00
6A36IA            80      5.7     5566b    4.W0       11.1        £8   23   22     44b       Q5       3o         *8        12.9         19         16        22       1.50
ZIlBANUE          81      7.7b    700b    5.1         19.5       62   32    6      4b        90       55         39       20.0          85         15        23       0.50
IERTM  APFtICA
33315             79      3.4b    3206b    6.5P       35.0       £3   21    5    l2b         62       30         46       14.0          30         11        43       1.007
WOIN              83      6.5     210b    2.iw        21.7        43   29   28     9         16       25         57       24.3          16          3        24       0.03
CAStOff           73      8.2     590      2.97       16.0r       33' £3-  20S  -            74?      45'       s50        12.8'        20'        14Y       26       1.307
C.ALR.            79  2.2  230  3.8'?   20.6'?   -  -  -   -                                 -        -          6587   -               -          -         -        0.70mr
WAD               76      4.4     120     2.4b.q      21.7b      -    -    -      15         257      -          77       -             -           3'?      21       0.20?
0Co               78   1.5  670   9.0-"?   27.7'?   -  -  -   -                              -        -          563by   -              30         -         43b7   6MI y
CAOM              77   0.6  3.420   3                  3b . n7    _ - _ - _-  --             -        -          46b7   -               -          -         19b6   2.l00'
CAMBIA            77      0.6     220      3.3-        6.5b      46   250   6-   1ob         40by     90-        27b6      46.7'        40         12b27    17        -
CAMEL             76    11.3    400       4.07        15.5b      -    -    -      -          71bxI    -          2717     -             -          361zy    21        -
0-1211            79      5.3     2900    4.6-P       -           25  28' 2t-  20            34       36         33       Z.OOP         8s5        16        29       74t0'
IVORT COASr       81      8.2b  1.070b   10.0         45.0        33   46   13    30b        60       86         43       26.0          £7         15"       26       1.90'J
LIRtIA            80      1.9     520     4.6         19.6       43   23   24    30          52       32         35       20.0          76         22        20       2.90
:36A              81      7.06    190     4.2'        21.7'      38   21   11   It           20       60         44       15.7          66          1        11       0 90my
;ARrlrAEIA        78    l16b    3206    5.5           16.0        33   43   25    17b        32       60         4£       52.0          30          9        25       0.37
IGER              78      5.2     300     4.3'?       16.6a?      528  43-   5'    8         17       568        41-      30.7'         40          2        24b      0.20J
NIGERI            77  82.6  910  4.17                  9.6  _---    -                        -        -          -        -             -          lOW7  25    0.17r
SENEGAL           77      5.5     45s      5.0        23.0       46   3£   20    10          3&by    -           £3bY     -             20         10        21        .206by
SIERRA LEN         77     3.4     250      4.0b       I6.ob      -    --  --    15b          37t      -          35       25.0b         84         15       22      O0obr
TOCO              78      2.6     400      6.50"      26.53       30' 26- 212  18            74       40         547      33.0          52         32bx2   43b        1.60by
LATIN AIURCA AND TIMR CARIRRXAN
ARGEIEtA          78    27.3   2.210       2.7        10.9        43' 32' Ivi   936          89       52         17       -             87         31         3      23.00
RAJIAAS           79      0.2   2.770     5.7         19.1        36   36   11   93h         9        97         24       -             97         75        19      -
3685ADOS          78      0.2   2.680     8.S"?       22.1'      £3' 31' 160  996           1007      99'        27?      1S.9'        99'         787       207     -
502.IA            80      5.4     550      4.I'?      30.5'      -        -_       63        747      -          W0Y      -             -          15?       -       12.607
SAZIL             79   116.5   1.770       3.8         6.2       51   -    24    76          73'?     -          23'?      4,5b         61'        15'Y      1'?    12262b
CILE              76    10.9   1,890       3.2by      13.nb      _- -       -     -         19ibxy    -          34b6     -             -          5tblm     20bw    11.90by
COLOlSERA         80    26.7b  1t.180b    3.3         25.0       35   20   20    alb         78       36         32        6.6         -           47        20      10412'?
COSrA RICA        30      2.2b  J.810b    8.4         31.1       40   27   33    90          93       77         33        5.5          77         AC        27      16.00
C0us              78      9.8     -       8.0         11.0       -    -    -      96        112bxr   98         lb8      -            98          71bir    15       19.02b6
DOINXNICA  REP.    80     5.3   1,030      2.9        13.0       39   21   22    68b         80       31         59        3.2         94          30        33      16.00
ECQA4D1           80      8,4b  1.110     6.0P        36.7       £5   31   16    91         105       -          36       12.6         86          47        16      29.00
EL SALVA x        77      4.4     640      3,46b      23.1b6     64    3   27    62          82bxk    32         39       -             41         26b6y    27b7      7.00b6
QIUTrIALA         78      6d   1.010       1.7'?      12.6b      -      -  -      --         69b62    -          35by     -             69         1510"   j1b'    5.50?
CIYANA            76      0.3     630      8.1by      13.8b6     -    -    --   -            99bxr    -          32b6     -             -          59b61     -        3.no06
XAII              8o      5.0b    230      3.4'        7.9ay     65    9    6    236         50       20         62       14.0          62'         An       27       0.0
18W09MR           78      3.6     520      3,5b6      14.3b6      628  15- 19'  60           89bxy    30'        417by    22.4          68'        2117      19       8.00?
JAMICA            80     2.1    12.110    6.5 ;s3.7 32   45 i.    90                        98        9R        40         2.3         5 81                22        8.00
PTICO             80    65.5   1.880       4.7        17.0'      66   39   15    92          98       53         44        9.5         86          56        17      10.30
6ICARAA,          78      2.6b   610b      1.01,.     14.0b      -    -    --   qnb          5sbx     26         37b      -            -           26bi      30b     -
8A2A6             78      I.s6  1.5506    5.5byr    21.8b6        42'  13' 13    62b         956T     -          25by     11.6         85'         50by      27b7    20.6067
PARAGUAY          79      3.0   1.140    1j41         14.2       42   17   20    84          83       32         28        3.jr         76         22        12       0.70
PE                8o    16.6   1,000       3.6        14.3        53   15   19    80         83       56         39        9.3          39         39        22      16.40?
TRZIAD 6 7To.   77        1.1   3.910      4,aby       .86b      £ A    32   20    05        98       91         30       10.5?         £9         62        24       _
UGA               78      2.9   2.500      2.5         9.,h                       9 _   _-   54  105bt    -      24b      -             -          64bx      -       17.8
VENMlUU.A         78    14.4   3,440       5.1?       18.9b       __   _    _    82         106bx     -          28       -             -          38bx      17      21.10?



CONWARATrIE EICIO  2  .CAT0                                                             or 2
Hatch 4. 198s
on UOCATI    U023T           AmILT            aE Pon              U'NT CPU  P301 18r
olr                 AS *3T    EXmRICsITUR  LSLT8AC P2)U1    PDESRT    PT31A41   PIDEUT    RAT  MN   S1C0*T31 SEMDA2T SIXGER
3og  POP. CAPITA   P       NP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATD TOt RATE         EOIL. Scum          STUID     DCTS IC N  PRIMARY TO  33w..  STUIWCns  SHURL.
TZAR KILLS. CUSS)  DEVOTED TO COVIDONOT    FRI SEC  "I   (C)   RAO   c:L                 IPR       AS PERCENrT sECONDAR   RATO       FOR       RATIO
(1979) (1979)   DUCATION   IDITUU             (Z)        (1976)   (Z)       CZ)    13A*63t CUPICAPITA        CZ)        (2)    TEAOK        (Z)
(1)     (2)       (3)          (4)           (5)         (6)      (7)      (a)        (9)       (10)        (11)       (12)       (13)    (14)
UES  ASIA AND TIM PACIFiC
CIM              i83 1,025.0b    3106    3.1          7.1       36   40   22      77b      77       62        25        8.0          65         35       17       6.30
IKO_SUEA          81   15O.sb    320      2.1         9.3       70  2Z    6      32b      98        61        37       11.0          74         27       26       3.70
O1A               82    39.3b  I 636b    7.7-        20.3       34   34   31    96         99       98        *3        19.0        98          84       33      2 1.0
MALAYSIA          84    i5Zb  1J870h    5.6          22.7       39 " 4    17"    Tab       97r      97        26        13.3         90         72       22       4.00
PAP*  N.C.        83     3.0      820     5.4        19.0       40   17   22     -         60       73a       31d        3 I3.       35         132z     272       1.00
Pw.Lr7nm          79    48.3b    690P    2.          14.0       64  36 -         75b       84       65        31        7.1          89         55       36      21.00
SI lAlO3          s0     2.4   4.420      2.7         6.7       39   40   16    83         92       82        31        8.h          96        35        22       3.20
SOL* 10SL.       82     0.2b    6O        A.6FW     I,.0b      41   34   20    1I         78       so        27        10.5         40         20       18        2.50
hLAND             30    47.3b    723b    3.4         20.6       59   15   13    86b        96       -         17        9.3                     29       22       4.00
-OM ASIA
MAULCD"SK         79    92.3b     90      1.lP       10.1my     5l   17   20      22b      63r       _        53        5.6          -          14       23        1.43
3332*             80  1.2   80  3.6    11.0    -  -  -   10   12                                              -        -                  -         -    -
DDIA              77   639.6     210      2.97    S    .9'      -     -     -    36        792                41       -             -          22       -         .306r
EML               82    15.06b   150      1.4       -            --               19       70                 3               -                 21       23       3.700
PAUXSTA.          32 U   7.1b    380b    2.0          7.0       38   20  24       ZZ       50       41        30        5.9          56         21       15       3.e0
EOPE. DOIZ   7   1TAII D 2 A10   ICA
ArGRAIISTAN       77    15.5      -       1.7         3.7       47   19   15    12         3lbY     69        37b      -             62          8       22b6      2.007
aLOTRIA           79    14.3   1.770      3.8"       12.3       34- 26S  21    35         837      Asa       37        7.0?         55s        29s      26       3J70Y
SCIPT             82    43.36    652    4.6"          7.6       31-  353  268    44        752      we        348       9.8-         836        436      196     17.o0
CE                76     9.3   4.140      2.8        10.6b      37   26   21     -         971Y    -          29b       6.2?         -          79TO     27b7    17.30b7
IRm               79    36.9     -       5.7a7       14.187     -     -     -    50      l1l08      -         32       -            -           "4u      24.      4.9067
IRAq              79    12.6   2710    IL3JA          6.967     -    -    - 7 -           1o07      -         28       -            -           450-     29-      0.306?
123.430           St     3 4b  643Jo     6.307       3j 36y     -     -     -    98       93        94        29       -            9M         a1       I       11.)0
.103043           at     2.2b  1.420b    4.9w        30.2       19  I4 ae    7eb          l03"      85        32        7.2         92          82"      25      19.00
1U36102           79  2.3   -    -                   18.685Y  -  -  -   -                  96    -            1 9    -               -          464    -    27.802r
30Am              80    14.3    740       6.36'      17.50      36  44   20       28       5687     35        39       19.7          40         252      21       4.50
OK"               82     o.qb   .9320b    2.3--      12.7w      -     -     -     306b     71"      65        25       -             36         11       j4      ...
PORTIEAL          79     s sb  2.060      3.6        22.2       50   28   11    78        97        20        196      122          336         452      17-      3302
NONJIA            78    22.1   2.100      3 9by       6.27      -     -     -    98       10662     -         23b      -            98           46bx    22b     10.60bh
SPA*N             76    37.0   4.920      2.17       16.87      -    -    -      -        9867      -         29b      -             -          67b7     -       24.10b7
SYRIA             78     8.6   l.170      4.6p       10.3       39   25   26      53       8767     80        353      -             68         43b6     21b     12.60
TUNISIA           79     6.4   1.130      7.Op       19.0       42   36   13    62hb    300         80        39b      12.3          30         30"      30       6.00
TUzrT             83     47.S  1.230      3.3        16.2       50   22   24      73P     110       77        31        6.1          55         26       11       8.00
3320 A.R.        s8       6.8    420      5.0Pw      12.0       94    7    7      21b      37       12m       387      67.0         83           3       20       1.30
TUEN 7.0.D.       82     2.0b    620b    7.6          9.7       630  140   8      53       61       34        25       22.08         46         17       20       2.50
3613A2*Y FM DCVEWPDOC 00UrrtEIES:
=-ber of Countries:                   84              93      70   69   67     81       92        68        35       65           75         91        38      85
Rane:                                  (I.4-         (3.7-  (23-  (8-  C5-    (8-      C12-     C12-       (17-     (1.4-         (20-       (1-      cs(     (0.03-
30.0)         54.3)  9)   46)  33)    99)       119)     99)        77)      67.0)        100)        84)      48)     29.0)
Quartile: Upper:                        5.6          21.7     51   36   22     81       98        80        43       20            87         47       26      21.1)
l6.n.:                      4.0           16.1     43   28   19    53        83        61        35       13           65         26        22       3.7
Lr~-                        3.0           11.0     38  23   13    25         60       35         28        9           40          14       19       1.3
QuartIle Deviation:                     l.l           5.4    6.5  7.5  &.5  28.0       19.0     22.5       7.0      5.6          23.5      lS.5       3.5       5.0
Hem-:                                   4.4          17.0    46   28   18    53          76       59        36       16            62         31       Z3       6.9
Stindard Daevation:                     1.6           8.7     12   10    .  _29          27       24        ll       13            27         23        7       7.4
Hedlam:                                4.0           16.1     43  28   19      53        83       61        35       13            65         26       22       3.7
ShUOLS:                                                    lOOWOTrs:
-    D30  UllA7AILt                                          A - DATUII PRIO  TO BASS TZAR                     S - MINISTIRT OF EDUCATION (M) OLY
wN..ITUD  NIL OR NCLICIULE                1               - DATIPK1 RECET TWiAt BASE Yl7                   T - PE IUID SrATE CMY130O0  ONLY
? DATUM OUESTIONABLE                                       N - CURNIrT PRICZS                                 g - PUI[C   PNDITURE oMLT
*IMUCLCOCS PAr8-TIl STUDETS                             P - CDP                                            7 - lCIDms OVER-ACE STUngmTs
m - asco SOURCS
SOURCES:
CDI_ I and 2: World Neunk AtIan or IBRD nlssions.
Coleso 3 to 14:  IIRD alsulons. Govermenmt ourews and/or Uneco Statistical Yearbook.
Comarative Educatin Data are seful in the evaluation of varlow education sqrem_ and 6ana1y1s of relate stae.s of educatlonal develomuent between various
coctrIee. Uo,ewr, an tha bass of tbe prsent data. croe -fatlenal coeparison should be approacbed   thb Areat cautlon.  Pata presented 1a c:e *boae table h-e
bee  collected larzely by Se*  liselons from Sovermnt *ources; the revtlader are staff aetqsUte or dsat  from neae.  'fforte hav  _en 64e to st6adardg2-
definitions and, within 7lmitS. to  hec k  ru accursty of the d4ta.  "nevrthele. csuch dat4  re etilup te rfect ln several respects and the  ank l. mracinX co
-ePros tb_ Progressively on the ccawlan of Its opetinnal murk. In the "ea of the"e data, clte follo.IX qualifIcAtons should be kept In mind:
(1)  Ecdcatioen       d firnd in the taU   Includes al ed1 catit  and training. both forml and nee_o  rl.
(2)  -PrImmr. eduoAtlen refe" to eduation at the first level *ad -oecondary"  dedatioa refer  to all edcation at the aocomdary level rejardleas of type
(e.X.. ganeral. taechical. awrIcultural).
(3)  -L8rcy rtee- (Ceol. 6) ar often obtaned froe country cenmes. In  any countrle  they are only approexltlons ad It Is de htfa1 that ny uniform
definltion of  llterteC  bee been follocd cone .st-tly.
(4)  Fulblc exPeSeture In edction- (cola. 4 and 5) refers to all cpItal nd rnrrent *xpeudttmres devoted to educatenn by public and quaai-pbLic
agemices.
(5)  Znroll_nt raties  (culn. 7. 12 and 14) refer to school year _d are the percente  of eligible children enrolled fall-tie  In the appropriate ectool.
pubUc and privte by leel. They are often subject to a wide *ergln of error in the dewtnopnjt countrie o"ing to  erinateia in the accurcy of bhesc
data (i.e.  Pftpeciric poaplation and enrollm-ts).   nrolnent figures frequently  re hibAhr than the nher of  tudeste acteally In  cleeol. Oer_ged
eatIdate -bose ltclueion is indleted by footnatee 1 al e n Inflate the ratio..



- 23-                                ANNEX 2-2
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL 11PROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATtON
ENROLLMENT GROWTH BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION BETWEEN 1975 AND 1983/
TAUX D'ACCROISSEMENT DES EFFECTIFS PAR NIVEAU D'ENSEIGNEMENT ENTRE 1975 ET 1983
Annual Growth C%)/                            Number of Students/
Accroissemnent annuel (x)                     Nombre dletudiants
1st     2nd       3rd      4th                1st       and      3rd       4th
Degree  Degree   Degree   Degree              Degree   Degree   Degree   Degree
1975-1976                                                    362,895   52,562   12,743    1,633
1976-1977        8.9      26.8     21.9      51.4            395,381   66,647   15,532    2,472
1977-1978        6.6      18.9.     9.6      24.4            421,436   79,249   17,027    3,075
1978-1979        8.7      19.9       --        -             458,104   95,008        --        --
1979-1980        5.7      11.7       --        -             484,272  106,090   22,362    3,817
1980-1981        4.7       2.2     14.5      13.9            506,788  108,450   25,616    4,345
1981-1982       -1.6     -0.2    -12.9       -4.9            498,639  108,251   22,319    4,131
1982-1983       -1.3      -6.7    -17.5      -7.2            492,329  101,003   18,404    3,833
al Growth/
roissement Total    35.7       92.1      44.4    134.7             129,434   48,441    5,661    2,200
1975-1983     1
Source: Togo: Educational Statistics/Annuaire statistique de 1'education;
Years/Annees 1975-76; 1976-77; 1977-78; 1979-80; 1980-81; 1981-82;
1982-83.
WAPED
December 1984



so >so                                                                                       -.                                f
b-               8-   -    -    8
W:   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .._. .,,...........fX
- .   t
X      .,...... .......................;-.
,.,, .......,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,*,. , ...................   ..    ...   ..................................................... ,
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
E9ZHNNV  _
C-Z  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION'DE-L'EDUCATION
1982-1983 Enrollrent Pyramid by Grade/Pyramide des Effectifs par Nhaou
THIRD DEGREE/
TROISEME DEGRE
13                           BOY$/GARQONS                          2,331    439                 GIRL/FILLES
12                                                               4.56B      8s0
.1                                                                 2.710    429
SECOND DEGREE/
DEUXIEME DEGRE
10                                                  17.727                      4IA28
9                                                    15.907                    4.8841
8                                                    15.740                      .2 
7                                                 18.97.42
FIRST DEGREE/
PREMIER DEGRE
5                              39,27b4                 -1I.3                      7.39        l22.577
4                             40,7001                     1  .60                 17A69           12.750
2                 53279                              1665                              1126166|
70       60       50        40       30       20        10       0        10       20       30        40       50
THOMIUJIERS
WIRedoublots
Source: Stcatistic hon, Ihe Di1cutoeftoFEductio Pbmvng(iN9B2-1QB83)
Stotistliem de la Direction de la FmnHlcaton (119B2-1983)                                             VJW c orld -26375



- 26 -
ANNEX 2-5
T O_
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
NUMBER OF PRIMARY TEACHERS BY CATEGORY AND LEVE;. OF EDUCATIONAL DEGREE/ 1
NOMBRE D'ENSEIGNANTS DU PREMIER DEG? PAR CATEGORIE ET
NIVEAU D'INSTRUCTION  1/
Diploma                                               2nd Degree       1st Degrep
Diplooe        Baccalaureate      End 3rd Degree      Diploma         Diploma
Category/ ~ " ^^^_         (13th Grade)       (12th Grade)        (lOth Grade)    (6th Grade)
Categorie                  Baccalaureat      Prebatoire          BE/BEPC          CEPE/CEPD        Total
1. Teacher/Instituteur          18                 10                 905             182          1,115
2. Auxiliary Teacher/
Instituteur Adjoint          6                  7                4,451             895         5,359
3. Monitors/Moniteurs           --                --                     7          2,103          2,110
4. Permanent Monitors/
Moniteurs permanents         --                --                    6           1,403          1,409
5. Regional Monitors/
Moniteurs de Pre-
fecture                      --                --                   --              14             14
6. Village Monitors/
Moniteurs de villages        --                --                   52             155            207
TOTAL                        24                 17               5,421           4,752         10,214
Note:  Promotion from one category to the next  one is obtained through a theoretical test,
the intended purpose being to eliminate categories 3, 4, 5 and 6/La promoticn d'une
categorie i l'autre est obtenue a La suite d'un examen th6orique, le but etant de
supprimer les categories 3, 4, 5 et 6.
1/ Source: Educational Statistics; 1982-1983. Directorate for Education Planning/
Statistiques de l'education; 1982-1983. Direction Gengrale de la Planification.
WAPED
December 1984



TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMtENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELICRATION BE L'EDUCATION
COMPARISON OF RECURRENT COSTS PER STUDENT IN SELECTE) WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES/
COMPARAISON DES DEPENSES RECURRENTES PAR ELEVE DA-NS QUELUE5 PAYS DE L'AWRInUE-DE L'UUEST
Annual Recurrent Cost per Student/
D6penses Rgcurrentes Annuelles par E1Ive
as % of GNP per capita/
in US Dollars/en dollars EU               en Z du PNB per capita
GNP per    Primary          Secondary General       Primary          Secondary General
capita/    Education/       Education/Enseigne-    Education/        Education/Enseigne-
CouL1try/Pays     Year/       PNB per    Enseignement    ment Ceneral Secon-    Enseignement    ment CGn6ral Secon-
Annde      capita      Primaire        daire                    Primaire        daire
Mali                1981        180           30                   395                15.7                  207.8
C.A.R.              1981        298           55                   117                18.4                   39
Sierra Leone        1980        270           68                   216                25 a/                  80 a/
Mauritania          1978        270          142                   797                52                    295
Ivory Coast        1976         610          120                 1,040                20                    170
Senegal             1976        420          117                   260                28                     62
Benin               1977        200           41                    92                20                     46
Upper Volta         1977        118           62                   440                52                    373
Lower Sec/'Upper Sec/                   Lower Sec/lUpper Sec/
ler cycle ;2kme cycle                   ler cycle 12'me cycle
SecondairelSecondaire                   SecondairelSecondaire
Togo                1983        340           23             79     1   475                         20.1    1     120
Source: World Bank Missions/lissions de ia Banque Mondiale'
a/ Estimates/Estimations.
WAPED
December 1984



TW.O
EDUCATIONAI. IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMEWIORAT104 DE L'EIUCATION
EUICATION EXPENDITURES BY NUMBER OF STUDENTS MAD LEVEL OF EDUCATION/
DEPSES POUR LrEDUCATION PAR NONDRE D'ETUDIANTS ET NIVEAU DNSEIGNEHERT
(School Year/Annie sculaire)
1932 - 1983
m. mm
flow
C
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
ler degr8          2ime  degre         leme  degre         4erme  degre-
j    due4tion Expenditures/D8penses potir l'cducation 1/  (Degreez/DeRrfs: Ist/ler --5,837,380; 2nd/2tLme -
3,462,402: 3rd/34- -- 3,421,005; 4th/4jUe --
*9HEH External Resoureer/Aider, exterieures (Degreec/Degrfj   Ixt/lnd  --  387,380; 2ndM2me  --  451,402,  lrd/mere-
810,005; 4th/4eoe -- 1,808,1281
_Number of Students/No bre d'etisdiantc
Source:  a)  Togo:  Educational  Statistics  (1982-1983)/Togo:  Annuaire  stetioLique  de  l'iducatiinn
b)  Annex  2-2  for  nuwber  of  studentc/Annexe  2-2  pour  le  no bre  d'4tudianta                                                         X
I/   Excludes  education  budgets  of  other  ministries/Budget  pour  l',education  des  autres  *inisteres                                          s
non coepris.
VAPtt
Dacom"r 1§|4



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-8
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT;PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
DISTRIBUTION OF THE EDUCATION BUDGET OF MFSD AND MTFD BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES/
REPARTITION DU BUDGET DE L'EDUCATION DES DEUX MINISTERES DE LwEDUCATION
PAR CATEGORIE DES DEPENSES
(School Year/Ann6e scolaire)
1982 - 1983
E D
1. Recurrent Budget/Budget de Fonctionnement         (%)
A - Personnel and :-aterial/Personnel et
matgriel                                  62.3
B - Fellowships and Training Courses/
Bourses et stages                         16.1
C - Subsidies/Subventions                       19.9
D - Educational Assistance/Secours
scolaire                                   0.1
Subtotal/Sous-total                         98.4
2. Investment Budget/Budget d'investissement
E - Construction and Equipment/Construction
et equipement                              1.6
Subtotal/Sous-total                          1.6
TOTAL                                      100.0
=.am=
Source: Togo: Education Statistics (1982-1983)ITogo: Annuaire
statisti%ue de l'gducation (1982-1983)



- 30 -
TOGO                                                                  ANNEX 2-9
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET P R LAMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
SOURCES OF EDUCATION FINANCING/
SOURCES DE FINANCEMENT POUR L'EDUCATION
1975 - 1983
(CFAF '000/000 FCFA)
_________________________  zws  isr _ _ r-
_E~~~~~~~~~~~~o _oele _tou                               ift_|_   c_,mm e_60090            L _*
Los   0195 ~~~4miLiSli   Com?.es          a"issiapo"s                      i f u
1a       -ps           "       W5E d 0._ Ces1 ,,, _w  hw'sm,   C'mmnugwsm        aides         A dommaLss           .S
-         6688mB vstimm                P66 de.5m          465 owes"        is. "mane   amurtl.mrss   J3.4s405           10)18    Di   ..  
*   Ss  2.*".e    I*.ll*.1z    3Z.e              er.4e            1."e        4.5r.o        7t.zss.e9  51 .e  S1 .Q                                    Illt
- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ -_                                                                                                         -
3633.15    mini  *sw.m   _          *_r e....         36.             ala             aim          ,.Jis.i s3. lb-    ls*t              1.ou.          II     8.
111- 3.211.1111   ,..as.oa            on."s             al.006          U..00         2.a4l.US      12.   .1111101  It.9  n2.e   6,s      es  n          '    III
19194         *.a      IZ.ftl.M6            103.o              s.c              ....        a.eos.gin                    %.a   ***    *.          5           5
t5ft-o41   o.415.001   l2.aa.o.            *".og               016.606        51.066       1.745.010      ,s. an.Ms    :0. e   34-   II,        .,                    .
9115-411   ?20?.N     as1LO                 2.60             S0LIU            '2.0110      3.6.0U        M 1.41006     53.5     -  U.S  1     a,z'.gma      aj.a   as.,
106-3.4    '5*6U.gi   14*1.066m             23.6  4.06                        31.010       1.661.01      18.115.000    11.1  )6.  'S..        a.1.,e         ma    a.i
lawnes. *Aftmu   iu, rsil. * ttselslt   P4bl5s45d by the IN  m si W  for.. e  Uwai   Pimmise of tow
1160.6.t. of 'imed ammd  nmar5  bore.. ost th. earem£   *e: 1911_-16: 1i?5-?75  W70f 76
19ft-11  IWS s  @1 -S loe-e: 16243I
bssmm.irs. .Iefietimgat  m,.#me Paw 1. 1&m..-.g,sm rp,d.f.1 d. la Floi..58efti    d  Miis  hItIr.
i.. 'rewasm,b et osmersimReve ~ 15 pm. sO a.s"mb. cem..ro .min,,tsu 19?1-?ba I9,5.?1.
1977-1 9111   40 1 _   - logo-el: 151-ht $116-SI.
5/  tsr 8.6. f.ellsslVs samd Ipwsme       4.606eiCmrud bogres et hedg;4  .s  lgt.
bi  Tim.o,rien available 1975-82 excludes AIDS and IDA astm.itnc.. uuimLt  for 1912-63 was
CIAP 2.1s  billien. tbun i t6et4aj   tot-l *tstrf  Ia sUsistnce to C?AP 5.04 billion.
about 255 total  dmcatioal finsnciva/Lmo donnA.s dimpohtbles  1975-82 n-incust ea-
1 -nio.ance  de  la  aSnqm  Atricaino de  Wetoppoaunt  ct de I'JLD.  Cett. assistaneo
pS&   1662-113 a *   de 2.15 milti rds  M0A.   _sant wen aug_mbotatlon de lasslistanc-
ogt4rioure de 5.04 *illiards  MCa. soit 2SS do IPensmble du  linanco-nt de I'doucation.
Sm..ml of  mass am, P.m.smav  as fasessss o .1% mm.04f   8 bismstf
so_    /           ____                    ,_-~~.011-                  ",
11w 
I
till-i     L9?h-I1     t61sl6       *'6ts.    191-        145-S       20841      952-53
*rl-   _e*          ._t,.t1@t                            f.Avsf 9-
WAPED
Dece-ber 1984



- 31 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 14
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/
PROJET POUR L 'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
DESCRIPTION, OBJECTIVES. STRATEGY AND MEANS
OF INDIVIDUAL PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.        This Annex summarizes the description of project components
contained in the Working Papers, Items 1-5 of "Documents in the Project
File."
A. IMPROVINC THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION
Primary School Improvement
2.        Magnitude of the problem.  Until January 1. 1984, primary teachers
were trained at the Lower Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS) of
Atakpame, which has an annual output of 40 primary teachers per year, though
primary teacher recruitment averages about 400 per year. The result is that
only 1OZ of the current teaching staff have been professionnally trained, and
training needs are currently as follows:
Table I
Number of Teachers (Academic Year 1982/83)
Upgraded         *I. be Upgraded
Type of       Total      To be      During the First    During the Second
Teacher                 Upgraded    Education Project   Education Project
Teachers
(Institut-
eurs)         1,115        --                -                    --
Auxiliary
Teachers      5,360      5,360             1,700                3,660
Monitors      3,740      3,740             1,550                2,190
TOTAL      10,215      9,100             3,250                5,850
_in        inm                                    mmm,.



- 32 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 14
Objectives of the Primary School Improvement Component
3.        The project aims to support the Government's efforts to upgrade the
entire primary teaching staff and, through improving teaching capabilities,
to improve the overall quality of primary education. Intermediate objectives
are to:
(a) strengthen the Directorate of Teacher Training and Curriculum
Development (DIFOP) to enable it to prepare the teacher upgrading
program;
(b) assist the DIFOP in preparing correspondence courses to raise the
general educational level of the teachers;
(c) improve the capabilities of inspectors and pedagogical advisers to
set up and operate short pedagogical seminars ("seminaires et
journees pedagogiques") and to monitor the teachers; and
(d)  operate the in-serv!ce teacher upgrading program at the two ENIs.
4.        With an output of 1,350 trained teachers per year, it is expected
that all the teaching staff would have received a complete cycle of
professionnal training by the end of the project. As a long-term objective,
it is also expected that with tL2 DIFOP correspondence courses, the
pedagogical advisers' support to the inspectors, and the ENI programs, a
permanent structure would be in place for ongoing in-service training.
Strategy for Teacher Upgrading
5.        The strategy is similar to the one which was experimented with and
applied during the First Education Project (Cr. 1018-TO). In devising this
strategy, three main factors were considered:
(a) the need to take into account the absence of previous professional
training and the low educational level of the staff concerned;
(b) the wide differences in the general educational levels of the
teachers; and finally,
(c) the necessity to train the entire teaching staff within the
shortest possible time (10 years maximum), to avoid major cost
increases and loss of interest on the part of the teachers.
6.        To deal with these three constraints, the upgrading program
consists of three types of training: a 9-month correspondence course, 3
annual short seminars organized at the inspectorate level, and a 3-month
course at the ENIs. Each teacher is trained over a 12-month period, 'out he
leaves his classroom only to attend the 3-month course at the ENI. The total
program can be represented as follows:



- 33 -
ANE 3-1
Page 3 of 14
Month                               Month
1                                   9
correspondence course   _ _i_,_-_                             i
seminars                        P                        14
Month       Month
9          12
course at the ENI                                             i__i
7.        Correspondence course.  The course consists of nine packages of
lessons aimed mainly at improving the academic levels of the teachers.  Each
package includes texts that teachers send to tht JIFOP.  The texts are then
commented on by specialists and returned to the teachers.  The correspondence
course lasts nine months and is to be prepared by Togolese specialists
assisted by a Unesco expert.
8.        Seminars at inspectorate level.  During each academic year, at
least three seminars would be organized at the inspectorate level and taught
by the inspectors, assisted by pedagogical advisers. Currently, there are 36
inspectorates throughout the country but this number is expected to increase
to 42 before the project starts. These seminars would be held during short
holidays (such as Christmas, Easter and mid-semester breaks). Before the
three-month training session, most of the teachers would have had an
opportunity to attend more than four seminars. The program of the seminars
would focus on practical subjects concerning teaching practices. The teachers
would have the opportunity to teach in front of their peers, and their
performances would be analyzed and discussed in groups.
9.        Courses at the ENIs.  About 450 teachers would attend the
three-month training session at a time. Each academic year. there would be
three sessions. The 450 teachers would be replaced in their classrooms by 450
substitute teachers, who would teach in a different school each quarter.
However, the inspectors would appoint the substitute teachers in schools
located in the same area to avoid too many displacements. At the end of the
program, the 450 s'abstitute teachers would become permanent teachers and would
be appointed permanently to one school. The program for the three-month
training session has been prepared by DIFOP's specialists and is to be taught
by ENI teachers. The program is practical but also includes some theory on
subjects taught. The teachers, having completed the three-month training
session, would be closely monitored in their classrooms by the inspectors and
their pedagogical advisers.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 14
10.       The number of teachers attending the three types of the upgrading
program would be as follows:
Type                    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Correspondence course -/   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,500   1,500         -
Short seminars a/             600   1,500   1,500   :,500   1,500   1,500
Training at ENIs              450   1,350   1,350   1,350    1350       900
a/  The correspondence course and short seminars started in 1984.
11.       Upgrading of inspectors and pedagogical advisers.  Inspectors and
pedagogical advisers play an important role in teacher upgrading. Their
intervention is at two levels: the organization and direction of the short
seminars and the on-the-job monitoring of the newly trained teachers. To
improve their capabilities to perform these two functions, the inspectors and
the pedagogical advisers - a total of about 63 - would be trained in an
annual 10-day seminar held during the first three years of the project. The
objective of these seminars is to improve the inspectors/advisers' ability to
provide pedagogical support and guidance to the teachers. Pedagogical
innovations, improved teaching methods, use of new curricula, and techniques
to conduct seminars would be presented and discussed during the seminars.
Means Provided by the Project to Implement this Strategy
12.       To implement the above-described strategy, the project would
finance:
(a) The printing of consumable materials, gasoline, and travel
allowances for the preparation and distribution of the correspondence course
at the DliOP (UNDP/Unesco is already financing technical assistance,
fellowships and part of the operating expenditures for the same activity);
(b) Furniture and equipment to install the pedagogical advisers at 27
inspectorates, and operating expenditures for the short training seminars
organized at the inspectorate level, including travel expenditures, daily
allowances for teachers, and supporting materials for the seminars; and
(c) The operation of the three-month training periods, including travel
expenses, fellowships for in-service teachers, salaries for substitute
teachers (on a decreasing basis), and educational equipment and materials.
Further details are given in Working Paper No. 1.
Lower Secondary School Improvement
Magnitude of the Problem
13.       Teaching staff.  There are approximately 1,250 math and science
teachers (1,010 teach both subjects) in the 234 lower secondary colleges
(CEGs) of Togo. Only 16% of them have been trained at the Secondary Teacher



- 35 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 14
Training College of Atakpame (Ecole Normale Superieure d'Atakpamf - ENS).
The overall quality of math and science teaching also suffers from the fact
that the better students are attracted to the private sector, because of
higher salaries, than to the teaching profession. Moreover, teaching
conditions are poor: math and science equipment is lacking, teacher guides
are nonexistent, and pedagogical support by the inspectors is weak.
14.       Under the DIFOP's direction, a new strategy and new curricula are
being prepared, placing less focus on teaching mathematical and scientific
theories and concentrating on the practical application of subjects taught.
The curricula are designed to allow teachers carry out demonstrations with
student assistance. Suitable student activities follow afterwards. This
strategy is based on the use of simple equipment, most of which is made by
the teachers and students, and educational materials already available. The
DIFOP's specialists are now developing prototypes of equipment and materials
which would be replicated during training sessions for the teaching staff.
Objectives for the Lower Secondary School Improvement Component
15.       The project aims to assist the Government in its effort to improve
the quality of math and science education at the Second Degree through an
integrated program comprising: (a) the training of the entire math and
science teaching staff and the upgrading of the 21 Second Degree inspectors
to enable them to keep abreast of the training being provided to teachers;
(b) the development of prototypes of scientific apparatus which could be
replicated either by the teachers themselves or by local artisans, and the
preparation and the experimentation of teacher guides; and (c) the
construction, rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of science facilities.
Strategy for Improving Math and Science Education
16.       The overall strategy for improving math and science education is
based on two principles. First, math and science education would be
practically oriented and theoretical rules and principles would be derived
from practical situations in the students' environment. Second,
sophisticated laboratories and equipment would be avoided and simple
classrooms arranged in the CEGs. The equipment purchased would be limited to
basic apparatus which the teachers are unable to make themselves. Following
these principles, three types of action would be undertaken: teacher and
inspector training, preparation of teacher guides and simple apparatus, and
improvement of the teaching environment.
17.       Teacher/inspector training.  The teachers would be trained in 21
laboratories, which would be provided better science equipment than the other
institutions. In each of these laboratories, a 10-day training session would
be held twice a year, with about 50 to 60 participants, who would be given
daily allowances to pay for their housing and meals. The rest of the time
the 21 training laboratories would be used by the Second Degree students. The
program for teacher upgrading would comprise general education in math and
science, pedagogy, and the manufacture of simple apparatus modeled after the
DIFOP prototypes.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 14
18.       All of the 21 Second Degree inspectors would also attend an annual
10-day seminar to keep abreast of the training being provided to teachers so
that they can monitor their on-the-job performance and provide assistance as
necessary. The program for the seminar would include preparation of new
apparatus for math and science teaching using environmental resources,
familiarization with new teaching practices and curricula content, and
methodology for on-the-job monitoring of newly trained teachers.
19.       Organization of Teacher/Inspector Training
No. of Seminars   No. of Participants
Category              No. of teachers       per Year            per Year
Inspectors                     --                1                    21
Teachers of math
and physics                 510             21 x 2                 510
Teachers of math
and biology                 500             21 x 2                 500
Teachers of physics
and biology                 250             11 x 2                 250
20.       Preparation of teacher guides.  Two permanent DIFOP teams, one for
math and the other for science, would be responsible for preparing (a)
scientific apparatus prototypes, and (b) teachers' guides. They would also
hold training sessions for the most qualified math and science teachers who,
in turn, would become trainers of their less qualified colleagues.
21.       Improvement of math and science facilities.  Math and science
facilities, furniture and equipment need to be improved in two different ways
to serve two different purposes. First, 21 laboratories are needed for
teacher training; consequently, 10 of them would be rehabilitated and 11
built with sufficient room to receive Second Degree students and teachers in
training. The 21 laboratories would also be furnished and equipped.
Second, 262 classrooms would have to be renovated and specially furnished and
equipped to become "science rooms." In particular, they would be furnished
with desks with a flat top and with secure cabinets to store basic math and
science equipment. In addition, the existing laboratory at ENS (para 13)
would be renovated, furnished and equipped and a workshop at DIFOP. This
workshop would be equipped with tools permitting the production of simple
scientific apparatus that could be replicated by the teachers for use in
their "science rooms."



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 14
Means of Implementing this Strategy
22.       To implement the above-described strategy, the project would
finance: (a) equipment for a laboratory at the ENS of Atakpame for
pre-service training of math and science teachers; (b) the construction of a
workshop at the DIFOP, where prototypes of pedagogical materials and
scientific equipment would be manufactured and some duplicated fo- training
purposes; (c) the construction/rehabilitation of 21 classrooms into training
laboratories; these laboratories would be located at the "Prefectures" and/or
"Sous-Prefectures" (see map in Working Paper No. 2), and for teacher training
purposes they would receive additional furniture and equipment; (d) the
rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of 262 classrooms; (e) scientific
equipment at the 21 laboratories so that future math and science teachers may
be trained; (f) two experts, one in biology and the other in mathematics, to
assist the two DIFOP teams (Annex 3-6); (g) 48 manmonths of fellowships to
upgrade Togolese math and science specialists (Annex 3-7); and (h) the
operation of training sessions; this would include travel expenses, daily
subsistence allowances, and training materials to be used during the
sessions. These project items are described in detail in Working Paper No.
2.
B.  INPROVING THE MANAGEMENT OF EDUCATION
23.       Objectives.  To improve the management of the education sector, the
existing structure of the Directorate General of Educational Planning
("Direction Generale de la Planification" - DGPE) would be formally
reorganized into three Divisions (Sous-directions). The three new Divisions
- Educational Planning Division (SDEPE), School Construction and Maintenance
Division (SDCEBS) and Project Implementation Division (SDEPE) -- would be
given specific responsibilities and accountability and provided with
specialists adequately selected and trained. Under the project, each
Division would be assigned new objectives and strengthened to meet these
objectives (see new organigram of the DGPE on next page).



Ii~~~~~~~~~I
Sti
iH   mX    l1
.   I        EIW            
'p0                             0
!~~~ LJ 



- 39 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 9 of 14
Strengthening of Educational Planning Capability
24.       Objectives.  To address the issues of skewed budgetary allocations
and financial constraints and inefficient capacity utilization, the project
would assist the Educational Planning Division (SDEPE) in building up its
planning and analytical capability to: (a) study relevant macro-economic and
sectoral developments; (b) prepare long-tern educational plans and programs;
(c) review educational expenditures and propose appropriate distribution
among the different educational levels according to manpower requirements and
budgetary constraints; (d) devise a monitoring system to control education
costs; (e) evaluate the quality and efficiency of the educational system and
coordinate necessary improvements with the DIFOP; (f) ensure uninterrupted
collection of educational statistics and, with the use of a micro-computer,
analyze the implications of quantitative changes on educational policies,
plans, financing and school mapping; (g) prepare a school mapping plan; (h)
evaluate educational programs and projects; and (i) prepare future education
projects, jointly with the Project Implementation Division.
25.       During the project execution period, the SDEPE would provide the
following specific outputs: (a) an analysis of education financing, to be
completed by December 31, 1986, which would analyze current budgetary
allocations and expenditures and make specific proposals to decrease the per
student costs at the Third and the Fourth Degrees, improve cost-efficiency of
the system, reduce the fellowship budget, and provide a more equitable
distribution of funds among the different educational levels of in the light
of budgetary constraints and manpower requirements; (b) a comprehensive
long-term financing plan to be completed by December 31, 1987, and based on
the above-described study; (c) evaluation, on an ongoing basis, of the
upgrading programs for teachers at the primary level and for math and science
teachers at the lower secondary level; and (d) a school mapping plan to be
prepared during 1986-87.
26.       Staff of the SDPE.  The existing and future main staff of the SDPE,
broken down into units and showing their level of recruitment and monthly
salaries, are listed on the next page.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 10 of 14
Function                       No.      Level                 Annual Salary
CFAF '000   US$
1. Administration
Division Chief                     I    M.A. in Education
Sciences              1,800     4,300
2. PlannirAg & Programming Unit
Educational Planning specialists  2      M.A. or B.A. in
Sociology           1,560x2   3,700x2
Project Programming specialists   2           "               1,560x2   3,700x2
3. Education Financing
*Education Financing specialists  3      M.A. or B.A. in
Economics           1,560x3   3,700x3
4. Educational Statistics & School
Napping Unit
*(1) School Mapping specialists   2      B.A. in Statis-
tics and/or
Sociology           1,560x2   3,700X2
Statisticians                      2          I               1,560x2   3,700x2
Regional Statisticians             5          "               1,080x5   2,6005
*Computer specialists              2          "               1,560x2   3,700M 2
*Cartographer                      1                            1,080     2,600
5. Research and Evaluation Unit
*Research specialists              1     B.A. in Socio-
logy                  1,560     3,700
*Evaluation specialists            2          "               1,560x2   3,700x2
Specialists to be appointed or transferred from other departments.
27.       Means provided by the project.  To help achieve the goals set
out in para. 24 above and to ensure completion of the studies described
in para. 25, the SDEPE would conduct local training progrAms. All of
the 63 First and Second Degree Inspectors, appropriate SDEPE staff, and
headmasters of lower secondary schools would attend, on an annual basis,
a six-day seminar which would provide training in the: techniques of
collecting educational statistics, preparing school maps, conducting
interviews and surveys for program evaluation and regional planning
problems. The SDEPE staff would be provided fellowships to study abroad
in their respective areas, and they would also receive on-the-job
training from specialists funded by the proposed IDA credit. The
project would finance civil works, furniture and equipment to house the
expansion of the SDEPE; 26 manmonths of specialist services (Annex 3-6);
122 mammonths of fellowships (Annex 3-7); and the operating expenses of



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 11 of 14
local training programs as well as other divisional activities.
School Maintenance and Rehabilitation
28.       Objectives.  The project would take advantage of the
reorganization of the Directorate of Educational Planning (see the DGPE
organigram on page 8 of this Annex) to upgrade and strengthen the
existing Construction Unit. This Unit would become the School Building
Construction and Maintenance Division ("Sous-Direction de la
Construction et de l'Entretien des Bitiments Scolaires" - SDCEBS) and
would be respDnsible for both the construction and maintenance of school
buildings. The SDCEBS would develop a strategy for the rehabilitation
of dilapidatea classrooms and for maintenance and pre-maintenance
programs. Funds for these programs would come from parents'
associations, the Government's budget, and external sources.
29.       Magnitude of future responsibilities.  In 1983, the education
sector was estimated to include:
7,751 primary classrooms, of which 4,039 were built of durable
construction materials, mainly by parents' associations;
1,791 lower secondary classrooms, of which 1,385 were built of
durable construction materials, with funds provided by the
parents;
281 upper secondary classrooms financed by the Government's
budget.
Because of the lack of maintenance, the current loss on this capital
investment is estimated at about CFAF 600 million (US$1.4 million) per
year. Since neither parents nor the Government are taking care of
maintenance, many school buildings are now in an advanced stage of
disrepair and need rehabilitation more than simple maintenance.
Strategy for Improving School Maintenance
30.       Rehabilitation of classrooms.  Classrooms in an advanced stage
of disrepair would be rehabilitated with funds provided by the project.
The SDCEBS would: (a) make a precise inventory of classrooms worth
rehabilitating, (b) recruit private artisans at the village level to do
the rehabilitation, (c) purchase the construction materials, and (d)
monitor the work. In some circumstances, particularly in largL cities
or where there is need for extensive rehabilitation, workers from the
Ministry of Public Works would be used.
31.       Maintenance and preventive maintenance.  Regional SDCEBS
officers would be installed at five different locations throughout the



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 12 of 14
country and would be responsible for maintenance in their region. All
teacher undergoing training would be taught simple preventive
maintenance practices in technical seminars mai courses.  A "Repair and
Maintenance Guide" would be printed and distributed to all inspectors,
school principals and teachers. School principals would report
annually, describing the major repair and maintenance work needed for
their schools. The SI'CEBS chief would then establish a list of
priorities and develop a monthly work plan and schedule. Each region's
plans would be sent by the SDCEBS to the chief of the regional unit, who
would crganize the maintenance work in his region, using either local
artisans or workers from the Ministry of Public Works.
32.       Management and financing.  Execution of the strategy requires
careful attention, and the SDCEBS managing personnel (one architect, one
ciril engineer and two site specialists) and the regional chiefs would
'all have to be trained (Annex 3-7). This would be done by an expatriate
consultant. The project would also provide funds for (a) school
rehabilitation, and (b) preventive maintenance of 1,430 classrooms. It
is expected that parents' associations would take over the initial
financing of preventive maintenance with an annual contribution of about
CFAF 1,000 (about US$2) per student at school. This estimate is based
on the need to maintain a basis of CFAF 40,000 per year.
33.       Maintenance of the two teacher training schools (ENIs).  The
two ENIs built with First Education Project (Cr. 1018-TO) financing
would receive permanent, ongoing maintenance which would include
furniture, equipment and general repairs. A maintenance specialists
would be permanently assigned to each institution to perform maintenance
activities, and the Government has already included maintenance
allocations within each ENI budget.
Means Provided by the Project to Implement this Strategy
34.       The project would finance:  (a) civil works, furniture and
equipment for a limited extension of the SDCEBS facilities; (b) vehicles
for the SDCEBS staff, including motorcycles for the regional unit
chiefs; (c) six manmonths of consultant services to assist in organizing
the SDCEBS, preparing a development strategy, and training local staff;
(d) fellowships and study trips for local personnel, to enable them to
improve their management capabilities and visit similar projects (in
Central African Republic and Senegal); (e) construction materials for
school rehabilitation and maintenance during a three-year period; and
(f) operating expenses to carry out SDCEBS activities, particularly to
monitor the rehabilitation and maintenance work. For details, including
terms of reference for the consultants and the Togolese specialists, see
Working Paper No. 4.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 13 of 14
Strengthening Project Implementation Capability
35.      To enhance the capacity of the Project Unit established under
the First Education Project to manage ongoing projects and prepare new
ones, It would be upgraded and become the Project Implementation
Division (SDEPE). The administrative and accounting units would be
expanded and strengthened.
36.      The project organigram would be as follows.
|Director General of Education Plannin1
APnisroject I_plwInortation Directr                        nti--,|
Director of I     DiorofO       ictor 2nd Degre  Firector  PlnninFl  ir ctor of
-ZZ~Dduree    t-..-----.---1 1  l                      Construction
?1 mint.nanc
Supervisor of Primry  Supervisor of Secondary
School Iprove ent  School Ilprovement
Conoanen        Component
Supervisor of Priary  Supervisor of Secondcry  Education Planning  Haintenance
School Improvement  School Improvement    Component    Component
Component        Component
Legend:   *   Hier#rchical links
FunctionaI links
37.      The project would assist the SDEPE to:  (a) monitor and ensure
timely execution of all administrative and financial aspects of
education projects, whether financed by the Government or external
resources; (b) create and implement a project accounting system in
accordance with IDA standards; (c) maintain ongoing coordination with
relevant units of the Ministry of First and Second Degrees and the
Ministry of the Third and Fourth Degrees; and (d) prepare future
education projects in cooperation with the Educational Planning
Division. To this end, in addition to the on-the-job training to be
provided by expatriate specialists in project preparation, accounting
and management, the project would provide fellowships for training
abroad in education financing and management.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 14 of 14
38.       Responsibilities of the Director, Project Implementation
Division (SDEPE). The SDEPE Director would:
(a) coordinate project implementation at the national level;
(b) serve as a liaison between the component directors and IDA;
(c) monitor project implementation on the basis of the Working
Papers and ascertain compliance with the Credit Agreement;
(d) prepare and negotiate contracts for technical assistance
recruitment and fellowships;
(e) prepare comprehensive quarterly progress reports, including
the information received from the project component directors;
and
(f) be responsible for the financial management and maintenance of
the project accounts, including preparation of withdrawal
requests, projection of project expenditures, checking account
administration, and timely replenishment of the Special
Account.
39.       Responsibilities of the component Directors.  Each Component
Director would:
(a) prepare twice a year and submit for the DGPE Director's
approval, a work plan for component's activities and budgetary
allocations;
(b) within the framework of this approved plan, take all the
necessary initiatives and authorize all related expenses not
in excess of CFAF 10.0 million (for expenses exceeding this
amount, a special authorization of the MTFD would be
necessary);
(c) submit quarterly to the SDEPE Director a detailed account of
expenses, and a report on implemented and planned activities;
(d) prepare work programs and resource allocations;
(e) organize the training sessions, when applicable;
(f) select local specialists;
(g) select the technical assistanee specialists, when applicable;
(h) control the timely and safe delivery of equipment;
(i) organize and supervibe the payment of salaries, subsistence
allowances, travel and various fees, whichever is applicable;
and
(j) determine which training programs for local staff would be
used, and select and appoint candidates for training.
40.       Responsibilities of component supervisors.  Two supervisors --
one for the Primary School Improvement Component and one for the
Secondary School Improvement Component - would assist the Directors of
those two components. They would have the responsibilities described in
the above paragraph and would report to their respective directors.
WAPED
December 1984



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 6
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
1.        Project cost estimates are in January 1985 prices.  Cost estimates
for civil works are based on unit prices for building materials, transporta-
tion and labor derived from available contracts for comparable works in Togo
for the First Education Project (1980 to 1983), and adjusted to reflect the
12.52 increase in construction costs in the country since 1I83. The costs of
rehabilitation and maintenance were estimated on the basis of average prices
for small ongoing rehabilitation projects throughout the country. Preventive
maintenance after rehabilitation is estimated at an average of US$100 per
classroom (or US$2 per student) per year, or about 22 of average classroom
construction costs. The project would finance these costs to start the
maintenance program, which parents would then be expected to take over.
Local staff salaries are based on Government pay scales averaging US$118 per
uanmonth. The base cost of fellowships outside the country and study tours
Is estimated at US$1,830 per manmonth.
2.        The project includes physical contingency allowances of 102 for
furniture, equipment and civil works. Price contingencies for
project-financed expenditures except salaries of local project staff and
contractual fees for substitute teachers have been applied as follows: 1985,
52; 1986, 7.5%; and 1987-90, 8X. Price contingencles for foreign and local
costs will be equal due to compensating exchange rate adjustments. In light
of the Government's austerity program and expected limits on pay raises,
salaries of local project staff and substitute teachers are projected to
remain the same in 1985, and then increase at only 4X per year during the
years 1986-90. The overall allowance for price escalation is about 152 of
base cost plus contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated at US$2.15
million equivalent (about 18.0Z of base costs).
3.        The proposed IDA credit of US$12.4 million equivalent would finance
892 of total project costs, net of taxes. This represents 1002 of foreign
costs (US$6.1 million equivalent), and 802 of local costs (US$6.4 million
equivalent). The proposed credit would finance 1002 of civil works,
furniture, equipment, specialist services, fellowships, local training and
operating costs, and 58.5Z of substitute teachers' contractual fees. The
Government would contribute the remaining costs of about US$1.6 million
equivalent, which would cover local staff salaries at 1002, and substitute
teacher fees at 41.52. The latter would be financed by the Government on an
increasing basis: 202 in the school year 1986-87, 402 in 1987-88, 602 in
1988-89, and 802 In 1989-90.  The comparatively high share of IDA financing



- 46 -
AINEX 3-2
Page 2 of 6
proposed for this project is justified by the Government's current and
expected budgetary constraints. The project has been designed so that
incremental recurrent costs for the Governuent's budget would be minimal.
Most incremental recurrent costs would be borne by parents (US$10 per student
for science equipment) and by parents' associations and rural communities
(US$100 per classroom or an average of US$2 per student per annum for
preventive maintenance). Incremental staffing needs would be met through
transfers from other Government positions. The revolving fund that will be
created to purchase and sell textbooks at LIMUSCO through project financing
would serve as the base for a mechanism that would be self-financing after
the project is completed.
WAP;D
December 1984



EUCATIWIAL IMP3ORIT  OWJICTI10.  S t03 t'ATIOXATION1 O  LI'0WCATOII
PIEUICT COST ST COlOIIHNT AltD COST CATEMItCOUTS DU PIOJrT PAR COPOSAW  IT CASUCO-I  DU COmS
(CAI mttlion/mtillion uCA)
AllELtORATION DE LA qOALITE D'lJSEICNDEINT                                      AMISORATION DE LA CESTIOS DS L'EDUCATION
llrnOVIIi  QUALITY 0F EDCATION                                                Th U10TN1  KAtDG3OT 0? rASTIOr
Coupoeen:e 1/      Couposanta 2/                  Coupoccnte 3/                        Coapoeanto 4/               Cempoente 5/       CopoeAnte 6/
Component  I       Component  2                   Component  3                         Component  4                Component S         Component  6
AtSlioration                   An4liorstion  onseigneint                                              A6li0rntion don
enaetgn.ment premior degrl/           douziPue deSr#lLovar                                                   posiibilicte de
PrLmary School leprovesant            Secondary School luprove ent                                           realms an stat
des bltia.ntn/
lecyclate             Amelioration              Rauforcimant              Diwalop.at           Adamnistration
Fornation                            inieagoant             Inotallationo            plmnificetion             of school             du projet/
deoe mtree/           Manuels        mth at eslince/        ecience/                 Education/                Seltabilitetion       SCrengthening
Temehere               scolair.s/   Math and Selnce         Improvement of           Strengthening of          and Haintinnen        of Projeet
TraiOning             Textbooks    Teacher Upgrading    Science raciitm           Educational Planning    Capability              Tmplenntetion         Total
1. COUTS D'INVtSTISS1I5T/
INVESTHtNT COSTS
A. GEnii Civil/Civil workse         0                  40.4                0                    127.1                      16.5                   282.8                 1.1                489.8
1. Mobiller/furoiture               8.0                  2.e               0                     79.3                       7.9                     2.4                 2.1                102.6
C. Iqufpe1eot/4quipmeot            73.6               342.8                4.5                  527.9                      36.0                    14.4                24.4               1023.7
D. Sir,. de consultant/
Conuiltant Services             0                  14t.2              211.9                   1224                     101.4                    33.2               62.6                 571.6
1. CoGto do foratlon/
TreininS Costs                921.8 b2.5                              130.7                    0                       129.1                    12.0               21.7                1226.7
Coats total C'inve-
t ioaeent/
Totsl Inveteotnt Cotot       1033.3                565.7              349.0                  746.7                     292.9                   344.7               111.t               3414.1
11. CHAICIS RXCURRDITlS/
RECURUET COSTS
A. SgeSiree du peroonnel/
Salaorie of Project Staff    7.5                   10.9               17.7                   0                         41.4                    43.5                13.8                135.1
S. EIaundretlona contractual-
les des iattren supplf-
nl/Centraect.l fees
for Subetitute Teashere   1227.9                    0                  0                     0                          0                       0                  0                  1237.9
C. Autres coats de fone-
tionnmant/Other Opera-
ting Costs                   110.7                 52.5               30.5                   54.1                      75.9                   243.2               53.0                 619.9
Cot  totl  charges
rfcurr!nt.s/TotEl
Recurrent Cost*             1406.4                 63.5               48.2                   54.1                     117.3                   2U6.7               66.S                2042.9
CoGt total de bage/
Totel SBaeline Costs        2409.7                629.1              397.2                 t00.8                      410.7                   631.4               178.6               3457.0
lopr3vum/Physical Con-
tinpenciac                     8.2                 40.6               0.5                   73.4                        6.2                    30.0                2.3                 161.6
Provision pour hausta
des prix/Price Contin-
gineled                      3S3.S                 76.0               55.0                  119.6                      53.1                    99.5               17.9                 t25.5
COUTS TOTAL DU PXO lrr/
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         2601.7                745.8               52.7                 993.8                      469.9                   760.9              219.3                6444.0
..... ..             .....             ....          .        .. .... ... .......... ....... 
D.viaae/ForIagn Excharol   206.2                  672.8              295.9                 777.5                      317.7                   365.5              153.8                2784.2
WAPx-D
Decetber 1934



TOGO
DUCATIOKlAL IIPROVfUI? PROJECT/1180JIT FOUt L'AIELIORATION3 DI L'IDUCATIOU
_    AOUA  OF TOTAL 100CII nCtAUnG  AND LOCAL COST OF PFOJ2CT, IIICUIIO COllTINIClCIU, *? 008  CATEGOIT AIID TCAJ/
AITITmou. oDU TOTAL DID COOT5 WCAUt CT n         DIVISF.IJ,  ICL17AliT 1hPZ .VII  PAI CATCOI 11f T    ru  x
(U08  '000VO0O  dollars 11)
19SS                         1956                       1987                       1ss                      3989                      1990                   1983/1990
Toregfn      Local               For.    Lot.              for.    Lot.               For.    Lee.              For.    Loc.             For.    Lot.            FoT.          Lto.
Exchange/   Cost/                Ixch.  Cost/               xch./  Cost/               ach. /  Coet/            EzcN./  Cost             Each.t I est/           Caeh.I       Coat/
Codes en    CoOa                 Coota   Cota              corats   Co2ta             CoSta   Cotta             CoSts  Crott             coats   Coats           Coata         Coota
davisam      lorsus    Total   sn dev. lor4ua  Total    o dav. locaux   Total   sn dew. tocras   Total  an day. Lotiux  Total  an dew. locoux  Total as die.                   Iostus    Total
Cobt Cateasor/Co    a, Catisortl
I.   IIITUT)IIT  COSTS/
COUT5 D 01INYIS388LltT
A.  Civil Vorka/CSnla Civil                118.8       184.5    303.3    235.8   3153.    589.3   141.3   251.3   192.6            0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    485.9         789.3      1255.2
1.  rurnoturo/11obiller                     17.6        30.1      47.7      54.0    91.7   145.7    28.0    47.7    75.7           0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         99.6      169.3       269.1
C.  Zqoip"aot/1kqulpent                    520.9        21.2    544.3   1348.3    26.8  117531   738.7    34.0   522.7    165.8            5.8   174.6    0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   2613.7           92.6      2716.3
D.  CooAultcnt servtras/
Senires de consultsnt                 315.2        3114    364.6    424.9    32.8   457.7   301.4    20.1   521.5    174.9    12.1   387.2   11.1                1.2    12.3   48.2    5.4   31.6   1295.7          103.2      l35f.9
E.  Traltnil/ForstaoO
1.  Fellohbipa/Iouraes                125.6         0.0    123.6    163.8        0.0   161.8   115.9       0.0   135.9       84.0      0.0    84.0   28.0       0.0   2IS0    0,0    0.0    0.0    515.3              0.0       55.,
2. Local Tratotna/
formation locale                    0.0        28.1      28.3       0.0   407.3   407.3       0.0   583.3   585.3         0.0   627.6   627.6    0.0   6713.2   673.2    0.0  453.1  453.1            0.6     2774.8      2774.5
TOTAL INVLSTltDIT COSTS/                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
COUT TOTAL D31VIlSTISSDEUT           1116.1       297.5   1413.4   1024,   912.1  2936.9  1395.3   938.4  2335.7    424.7   643.7  1073.4   39.1   674.4   713.5   46.2  438.5  506.7   5048.2                    3929.4      8977.6
13.  IICUIRSIT COST5/
CUIACICS RVCUUEITE5
A.  Salaytas of Frojert staft/
Saeairsa du parooneal                   0.0        31.3      31.3       0.0    61.8    61.8        0.0    64.3    64.3        0.0    66.9    66.9    0.0    69.8    69.6    0.0   23.8   23.J             0.0       317.7       317.7
(0.0)      (313.)   (313.)    (0,0)  (63.6)  (61.8)   (0.0)  (64.3)  (64.5)    (0.0)  (66.9)  (68.9)  (0.0)  (69.8)  (69.6)  (0.0) (23.8) (25.8)    (0.0)    (317.7)    (317.7)
5.  Contractual Fees for Substtute
'Tascha,e181,.nratlons rootrac-
tuelleo Four lam mittros aj,gnta  0.0             280,0    28.         0.0   571.2   571.2        0.0   394.0   594.0        0.0   617.5   617.8    0.0   642.5   642.5    0.0  334.1  334.1             0.0     3039.6       3039.6
(0.0)       (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)  (57.1)  (57.1)   (0.0) (178.2) (178.2)    (0.0) (308.9) (508.9)  (0.0) (448.8) (449.8)  (0.0)(267.S)(267.3)    (0.0)   (1261.5)   (1261.3)
C.  Other Oaraciog Coatat
Auttes cuoOt de foncttonnesent         59.9        40.0      99.9    118.0    92.1   230.1   190.0   126.2   316.2    263.4   176.8   442.2  273.5  132.5   456.0   77.7   33.8  129.3   3004.5                     669.4      1673.9
TOTAL RFCVRRINT COSTS/
COaT TOTAL ChAES IlCUlIENTF5           S9.9        351.3    411.2    138.0   715.1   863.1   1310.0   784.5   974.5    265.4   861.5  1126.9  273.5   894.6  1168.1   77.7  409.7  487.4   1004.5                  4026.7      5031.2
(0.0)      (33.3)   (31.3)    (0.0) (338.9) (338.9)   (0.0) (242.5) (242.5)    (0.0) (375.8) (575.8)  (0.0) (539.4) (519.4)  (0.0fl293,3)(293.3)                 (0.0)   (3579.0)   (1579.0)
TOTAL PROJUT COST
Irel. rontolaeaclu)ta
CoUT TOTAL DU PROJT
(fncI. faprlvua)                     3376.0       648.6   1824.6   2382.8  3637.7  3800.0  3383.3  3722.9  3308.2   660n.3  3330.2  2200.3  312.6  3569.0  3883.6  323.9  868.2  994.3   4052.7                   7934.3    14001.8 1Y
(0.0)      (13.)   (33.3)    (0.0) (3169) (138.9)   (0.0) (242.5) (242.5)    (0.0) (3753.) (232.6)  (0.0) (519.4) (519.4)                                        (0.0)   (378.0)   (31?9.0) 
NOTEr  Parentheses Idireata Oovernsnt contrlbutioniPartiripatlon du Couvrauant sat tndiquls antre Ies parunchlaee.
Deaember 1984



TOMU                                                               Al 3-2
iDOrtm.L   u WSovs. TT PmlJKcr/pu0E  PM  LAaJsLLAAnm DE L ZD0ICATUs
ClltTun nvamc , tDuctfz1   m        JImSf UIrT P30W? iTipc     AIID IT clrb
0UT ttrnwr PfltANCflhKXIIU 30 OJ1. XIIT IWEIS. PS CfIPIU         1 L? PaE CF   T
Cmr7cOD/Op dollgrs Eu)
t   UD; DO   Dlor. Ul]" ts ti
ZMASAID                    Covormtlctvraooeut
Por.iSni                                   P.oral                                ForetigI
Prjt Cpoet.i                                    Local/lsp..  Mp--..                       LZcal/U..  Dp.m.                       Lclt/I  ip.. ...
Copee          &, pros t                          Lacel.    a  darein       Tot-l            Local..   en dales   Tota1             L1ocl..  so *dovdss   Total
I.  T910 CVARILY OP SDCAT&ObIAInLtATI0N DE LA 05AL!
.3  PrIsro ScehSol Bs.. 1A8S Iteraton  o.oiao.oaot prl_lIr,
3  TacbOr TmIe tlllS/Feia  doe .eve
Phrttur.t /oblltev                                          12.3          7.2        19.5              12.3         7.2        19.1
Iquipooot/qlutpeoo.t (lacl. vo.)                             9.1        171.3       180.4               9.1       173.1   138.4
Tralnn  Costs/cdto do farustio                            2444.4         9Z 2      253630.9          2446          92. 2     233.8.
Salaries of Project Staff/Salra du pnrsan..1                31.I          ...        1.4         .            ...           A                  8.*
Contracteal r.os  for Subt. Tsochsrs/IdSormorin.
eantroetumollo. io sltr. suppl#nt.                      3039.           ...        39.4            3778.3         .        1778.3         1261.3                   1261.3
Other Cporsting Costs/Aste oocdto do fetioo.ot              318.4       377.7       298.1             It134       177.7       39.13
S/-total                                                8142.4        448..      0090.9            4367.7       446.4     411.1           1279.7          .         279.7
2. Tattbokalesol a .colatreo
Civtl  koIGblGaasq Clvl1                                     65.3        11.8       154.3              63.7         8.9      1334.3
FhrolturalmobIlllr                                           4.5          2.3         7.4               4.6         2.8         7.4
Equipoost/lqi.Ispe.nt                                         17        390.2       897.9               1.7       696. 2     897.3
CnZttot Ssrevce/Servrtco da c          tast                   ...       363.4 -53.4                     ...       433.4       365.4
Trainintgr   ots/Coke do fercarlto                            2.7        23.4        27.1               2.7        23.4        27.3
S lArls of FrOjoCt Stalf/5saa1rao du. proRno1               2213 5                   25.8                                                     23 S                     275.
Otbor Operat4io  Ceot.Astcg  coct. do foi           t        37.57       01.9       143.1              57.7 2      63.9       141.
s/-total                                                  338.7      1462.5      1621.2             132.9      1462.3    1395.4             25.6                     25.8
_3,so  Soc School lp co.ntfal tars vis cnooinooc
Cv1i1 Wiorha/cGs.. levsil                                   215.0       320.9       335.9             215.0       320.9       135.9
ftralteraohbbllisr                                         133.5         78.3       212.0             1331.        75.3      23. 4
8qi.pnoenl/u0posnot (tol. -o.)                              72.1       1378.0      1451.3              72.3      1371.8      1451.3 
Coulca  S.sv-ceo/Serv-ic   do cooulcet                      53.7       *88.3        537.0              53.7       43.3       5137.0 
Tratolop Cr_ca/Coot;  dr for_oro                           213.1       125.3       340.4             225 1       123.3       340.4
=S jarla  of Prajort Sc.ffll.2.1s  do preoon2l              41.                      41.8               ...                                      8                    41.
Other Opocati   Co;ot/Aot-  cr-  te do fosctioueaneut        90.3       135.7       226.2              90.5       33S.7       226.2
S-rToacl                                                 822.1       2322.3      3344.6             780.3      Z32.2 3    3102.8           41.8                     4.8
1       O. 7 TNC   uNAflnWtr O0  DCArlr m/N/AK aIOTIuO  CPSfTIN
Dt LtED0UCAfII
a)  StraocstnlsS EdocatoalPas     rtoon /Rooircorc-n
Pfet rW-htionalor
Civil i.ovk/6j  cLrvl                                      29.3         16.5         5. 8             29.3        16.3       43. 
urnitorjloblior                                            12.3          7.1        19.4              12.3         7.1        19. 
Iqaip-cc/E4qirpont (Cla. -ho)                              4.4         8 .3        86.7               4 L    e    4.3       88 .
C.ltett Sor-ico/Sovice  do coonl:rt                        24.6        221.2       245.8              24.4       221.2      24. 3
Training Cm/ColcaCt do torvol                              6.          2139.4      321.0              81.4       239.6       321. 
lidroo Of tr.o--. Stafi/SIlorao do persoral                97.?          ...        97.7                                                    97.7 '                     77
Other operating ctColAtroa cdt, da.o f-cei1-ront           81.2        121.8       203.0              83.2        11.8       203.0 *
S/-Tac.l                                                 310.9        *90.5      1021.4            232.2        690.3      923.7           97.7                     97.7
b) D-oloat School RoIb. sod  lt. Cevobiliev/
iA  lratiO           y de r.ooitiltflo do rt  on 'e   t
ooctrstiso d-- btl_- Co
Civil IorhICis ciil                                       4r.7 7.7     2           748               877         2468.      76. 1
Poolotore/Itha:llr r17                                                   2.1        538                3.7         2 1        3.3
4qeipm_ tAq"atouse (Intl. ve.)                              1.          332.5       33.3              I.         33.3       353.
Cooalt.t SrVIC.O/Ssrucan do  moesltat                       7.4         67.1        74.5               74         VI7 .      74.5
Traisiog Costs/Coeto do focomevtn                           2.1         24.7        26.8               2.1        24.7       21. 
Salaries of Project Staff/S7a2are. do persoonel            W33.4         ...       101.4               ...                                  0                       103.
Mar  p"erating Ccto/Outre  caDts da fOectimorsoont        285.8        398.3       663.9             2643.       3903       60*3.9
Si-Total                                                 859.7        794.3      1654.0            756.3        7M.3      3532.6           101.4                   103.4l
a)  Snrotthoias PrOloct Iolooootatltaforsoonr
aiselloret?alo a. oroLt
Civil SorkJloIne civil                                       1.7          1.0         2.7               1.7         1.0        2.7
PwrenrsAftlbill.r                                            3.1          1.9          .0               3.1         1.9        3.0 
aqvlpoao./tqteipesont Clod.  -lh.)                           3.1         59.8        62.7               3.1        59.9       02.7
Co r.It S.-oeo/Sorotco do eousltast                          17.4       154.7       174.1              17.4       356.7      174. 
Traioing Costs/Cats, do fornOstIo                           27.7         30.2        57.9              27.7        30.2       17.9
SIlar-io o  Projoct Staff/Sa1r1s  do prroecal               32.4          ...        12. 6                                                    32.6                    32 56
Other Opratig Co-t/Aeo  coOt. 4. foe ct-risancnt            53.7         83.3       141.8              56.7        85.1     134. 
S/-Tol                                                   14. 3        324.3       £7. *             109.7       334.3      444.2            32.8         ...        32.6
Sotal                                                   7953.1       8032.7    14005.8             6377.1      6052. 7    122.3           1379.0 7                15790
'/ So. A-     3-2. p.6 5rt brelodeo. o  cot oed fl_ocio  by17 .hcoopeoVor A o  3-2. p.6 por L. rvpartifti
d.. cots et fissocaet pr Oee-cop"osto.
loaber 394



TOGO
EDUCATTOSAL IMPROVEHENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMHLTORATION DE L'EDUCATION
COST AND FINANCINO. INCLUDING CONTINGENCIE8. YT PROJECT COHYONENT Amm bY CATEGORY (continued)/
COUT IT FIHANCEXENT DU PROJET, INCLUANT IHREVUES  PAR COHPOSANTE ET PAR CAThCORIE (multi)
(USS '000/'000 dollars EU)
Proi"0 Coat/CnOat du Prej t                                     Financing/Financ..ent
CUsS '000/'0 dollars SU)
IDA/AID                     Coverneent/Couvernement
Foreaitg/                                    Foreign/                                Foreign/
Project Componenta/                               Local/Dips.  IlAperSie                       LoclJDfips.   Dhpanses                   Local/Dips.  Dipensee
Composantes du projet                                Locales    en devines    Total               Locales    an devises   Total            Locales   an devles Total
t. INPROVINO QUALITY OF EDUCATION/ANELICRATION DE LA QUALITE
DE. L'N GNEKENT
(b) Lower See. School Improvement/AuILorarion ensargneeent
deuxilme den r    I/
-  Kath and Sciance Tencher Upvradinu/R.cyclage
tnaeignant math et sclence
Equipment/Equlpement                                      0.5         10.5         11.0               0.5         10.5        11.0                          ...
Consultant Servicealservices de consultant               50.9        458.5        509.4              50.9        458.5       509.4
Training Costu/CoOts de forontion                       215.1        125.3        340.4             215.1         125.3      340.4
Salaries of Project Staff/Salaires du personnel          41.8          .           41.8                ,..                                    41.8           .        418
Other Operating Costs/Autres coOt. fonctlonnemant    32.6             48.9         81.5               32.6        45.9        51.5              """
S/-Total                                              340.9        643.2        984.1             299.1        643.2       942.3            41.5         ...        41.8
- Improvexent o( Sclence Facilities/
Amlioration ineta1lntlona sctence
Clvil Work./Ginie civil                                 215.0        220.9        335.9             215.0        120.9       335.9
Furnittire/lobilliar                                    133.5         78.5        212.0             133.5         78.5       212.0
Equipaent/Equipement                                     72.0       136e.3       1440.3               72.0      1368.3      1440.3
Conasiltanit Services/Services de consultant              2.8         24.8         27.6                2.8        24.8        27.6
Other Operating Costu/Autres cota fonctionnement    57.9             86.8        144.7              57.9         86.8       144.7              ,           .
S/-Total                                              4P1.2       1679.3       2160.5             481.2       1679.3      2160. 5                        ...         ..
Total                                                 822.1       2322.5       3144.6             780.3       2322.5      3102.8            41.                     41.8
I/ See Annex 3-2, p. 5 for total cost and financing of component by category/Voar Annex* 3-2. p. 5 pour le total
des eot. et financement de la composante par catFgonie.
VAPED
December 1984



TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IKPRVEWMENT PRnJECT/PROJFT POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
BASE COST ESTIMATES OF CON3TRUCTION WORKS/
COUTS DE BASE POUR TRAVAUX DE CONSTRUCTION
Unit Cost/                  Total Cost/              Cost Per Place/
Total                      Number               Cofts unitaire              Coat total               CoOt par place
Number/   Size/            of Places/
Type of Work/               Nombre    Dimension         Nombre             CFA                         CFA                         CPA
Type of construction        total         (ml)          de places         (000)          USS         (000)          US$           (000)         US$
A. New Construction/
Nouvelle construction
1. Science Facilities/
Installations Science
a) Science labsl
Labos science                 11         70                30              60/m,       IJO/,n      4,200/lab    9,130/lab         140         304
b) DIFOP workshop for
prototypes/DIFOP
atelier prototypes             1         40                10              30/mr'       65/W'      1,200         2,608            100         260
2. Offices/Bureuux
a) Gen. Dir. Education
Planning/Bureaux DOPE         5           --                5/of         1,952/of   i,243/o,       9,760        21,217             --          --
B.  Conversion/Transformation
1. Science Facilities/
Installatious, Science
a) DIFOP lab/Labo DIFOP           I          92                --               50/mr      109/m'     4,600         10.000                       -_
b) Classrooms into labs/
Sallee de classe trans-
formres en labos             10           --               30              900/lab  1,957/lab    9,000          19,565            3U           65
c) Clasarooms into science
rooms/Salles de classe
transformces en salle
de science                  262           __                48             250/sr      543/sr      65,500      142,391              5.2        11
2. Offices/Bureaux
a) Cen. Dir. Education
Planning/Bureaux DWPE         4           --                4/of           450/of      978/of      l,dOO         3,913             __         --
b) Division of School
Construction and Main-
tcnar.c,!V3CESE               e           --                5/u!           2/ur        611!of      2,250         4,891             --         --
Abbreviations/Abreviations:  of  *  Office/Bureau
lab - Labs/Laboas
ar  *  Science Room/Classe de science                                                                                              W
--  =  Not applicable due to variation/Non applicable due aux variations
"AFEr
Osceeber 1



TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENDRIER  D'EXECUTION
(Primary School Improvement Component/Composante Amelioration de l'Enseignement Primaire)
Project CoDponentis ond     calandarvyears/
ctivitiead/Conpoantes s         Annfes  crv endaires     1_rEeIt dat  d _mre    n  en
at  Lctivitea du  Projet    leanthes/ois                d       d           19 L _  _ _ _                   e   37.
K              _ 11  5 O It D J  1 ALIiiI  A S O llD            J ; 1 iA   sioix5jri JIF 1Al JIJ IAIs |olNlu Jl Fl1A IMIJ IJ  5  ONIJ ITINIAI -
LA QUALITE DE L'EDUCATION                  A  |0T   t IO  DE0| 
1. Primry SchoollwrovemntlAwZliarstion du sen   /r 1Oted_1iji01   +i 
Drme ember18
_Local Training: Correspondence CourseeCours par__   - lA;     X m   -
corromadence: rormation Locale                                 _    -||JJ0LL                    e_I L 00IgI1i            1    lrr       
c ou rse at EN    tge dans       le  EN'                             7L1                    -  nd:=           m                    
NOTES:
*Details an Specialist Services (including duration and starting date) are shown in Annex 3-6/                                                       m0|t
Les d6tails sur lea services de specialistes (y compris durfe et date de demarrage) sont en                                                          -
Annexe 3-6.                                                                                                                                           II
**Details on Fellowships (includinig duration, starting date and location) are shown in Annex 3-7/ 
Les dCtails sur lea bourses (y compris, dur6e, date de d6marrage et lieux) sont en Annexe 3-7.                                                      cn
WAPED
December 1984



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (continued)/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION (suite)
(Lower Secondary School Improvement/AmElioration du Premier Cycle de l'Enseignement Secondaire)
Freject  Coonpenti and   Sevc          lendnr Ydurn/
*t 8etivitfe du Pr lei  r         I     nth.tc.ir (           d      i dae Di i H   IN                .        013x    s dmaArAge) moMt e nl                             5 JA slo   l
2.~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Loe  Seodr  Scoo  .I.-1:roveme.nt/                                                      .T       -]      .    ;    sz  lXor1s  tionrX
-  Consetrtion DIFOP workehop/Construrtion. stileg           _nd  _ o a_ _      on  in An   3-/                -1
-Cone ;rio    n of 262 Cleassrooms/    noue/ uref tlonex        g  t62  _     o _ _  _-_.
*miles de claeoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
Ishabiittatio  EN  La;Rms  en ita   lao    Ns                                                          4      i+                     - 1    #       rir+
g quip_nt tabs. Vorkshop; classroo a/Equlpcsent _3      2_3    -    9~«
-Specialist Services *-iService de epficialietes &_               t;; ;         m,I :                                        ,,,           -                =t
WAPEI)nseter  (omainLuupae)I-
TeDcher u1gr4ding/Recyclage des                                                                       7 .  _           3
- ON   tin st sr (Curricula  Tdccher jLidec, Honito-           1        .      m      m             II                 L       m       I                  : m                    l11
_ig a=ot de=- focinan                                             .  (Prog-i        .Sr                                                            Ill,ll- 
NOTES X
Details on Specialist Sfrvices (includinR duration snd starting date) are shown in Annex 3-61 ,
U.s d6tai1s 3ur lea services de sp6tialistes ty compris durfe et date de dftrrage) sont en 1
Annfexe 1 6."1
*4Det.1lls on Fellowships (including duration, starting date and location) are shown in Annex 3-7/ I
Les i6teils sujr lea bourses (y cop,;-. duree, dgte de dc'srralt et lieux) eont en Annexe 3-7.                                                                             l
1'
WAPED
December 1984



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (continued)/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION (suite)
(Improving Management of Education/Amflioration de l'Administration de I'Education)
Education Planning Component/Composante Planification de l'Education
Froject Components and           -CaleWar Yeare/
Actvities/Coupoaantes             Ann-a calendaires    j
LA CESTION DE L'EDUCATION                                                    I  I I I I II =========_====_I== 1- I I I  I l|_ L      __ . .   |,  | -  | | | | -  |  |- 
- Reorganization of DWPE/Reorianirstion de la WCPe____________________               _                          _    |     _     _    -                -    
- O    DeEta    nsice                            u      ion and Rehabilittion/Exteniion  At                    _-6/
- Furniturea nd Off ice   squipont/obilier   at dquipe-  _y _               e _      t   e _ _n  en
1 r    en then              ingdof                 atucat,otal  Pnlannd  e  nd lotrc ntI  Ial-e s o     in   A    3-7/                                           i'
de la planificatlon de lebducation  (               d        d     =     ar_   e  li )   n  e  A-n=xe -3|
eSpcembielt 8ervices 4   /ervice de spd4listes _
locals et ectLvitds de pltnication)                                                                  II I I I I I  |1 I I               111111111111111111111111111111111r
NOnES :
*Details on specialist Services (including duration and starting date) are shown in Annex 3-6/                                                              l
Les ddtails sur lea services de specialistes (y compris duree et date de dksarrage) mont en                                                               l
Annexe 3-6.                                                                                                                                             O     
**Details on Fellowships (including duration, starting date and location) are shown in Annex 3-7/                                                         t
Les dftails sur ten bourses (y comprim, durfee date de d6marrage et lieux) sont en Annexe 3-7.
WAPED
December 1984



IKPLEMENTATtON SCHEDULE (continued)/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION (suite)
(School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component/Composante Remiss en Etat et Entretien des Batiments Scolaires)
Strengthening Project  Implementation Capability ComponentlComposante Renforcement du Bureau du Projet
Irro|ect Components and       /  alend-r Yeara/
Act lvit le/Lu pelsaite to      Ann6we calandaie k                                __     _=                                QR                     9^19 
4. Devolopomt of Se hool  Rehebilitation                               and sartintence _          hf   I      e __ __
CpbletYAdidtailstiur 4 ea posericest de rsp9iisce   ycmrsdree   at   edsrao   ote
AenId e Ie ___ I I I-
**rvetv Deitails     /ntaton elwhpr ivegutinf   drto,satn   aeadloain   r   hw   nAnx3
-Construcation daterialscr lo  ents/Lovrses  yeset rt on  :                                            A       _-7.
-prtn   ot  (Locl Trainiena. M/ateicntanec -      ***______    6   
(fCoermation loterals  toua  dlrntc/iracton, g e                                                                          1 11                          1
- Spc    Det ails onSeiaitsrvices*Srtccd   (Ji inc luin  duato  an  strtn  dae  ar  sh_   in Ane  3-6       1I I  I IIIII                   11IL l 
-~e dStiourdye Services Abode ap/Vinagsa  tues iy co    _______:topi du_ _et date de dIaae sot enI
-    k Opet t ailCst a  Feool   Shipsn^   Hildn  duain    tringeac   dat  an  loain  ar  shm    in Ane _3      ___-7__/              llllllll     
Les detsils sur les bourvcsdepcilses (y compris, durge                e date de dfaarrage e    iu ) sont en A|ex  37
L'
WAPED
December 1984



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (continued)A/CLENDRIER D'EXECUTION (suite)
(School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component/Composante Remise en Etat et Entretien des Batiments Scolaires)
Strengthening Project Implementation Capability Component/Composante Renforcement du Bureau du Projet
Ftg eet Ceuinn.nts fnd          caI endar 1octo                    _
ActititleCs/       t      @       Annies                                             ezlN   altg IT-__ _rnt.-                                             I 
*t ttliita du                                       Uja5M1]j1 t/lsj1:1.rrq'AU  )ilat]LjMj]IJtjLI?JJJEJLE)F'tJ5LJUJUFJUtL'JLUUsWUU ! e- -
et a OtI  oOC't"lonaent~   ISuiViT uat loclI . .                                               _ _ _   _IIT  I I I=   _ . .I.
S. Ftutuce Pr gofe tv oecartilonlr9pattioe  oftr         EUUUUUUUUUE   M
DailonSpeiist                               d          i   an tatration derting date  a _ho__ in A     3-6/
Trr 11~~~~-H           1                                                                                       -'11  - l  _-      ll   ____ll|slll 
iselt Sriceire ousssr lea        eies tet e   y                                                                                                        |o  | 1n
C    ete de tils t l bu             yon meti                                             ont en Annetion locale)  x. 3-_.
- Ptute Projet Pre  ratien/Pteparation de futuremi    llifhsw---A-si.|{|{|-{|{{^|PlP       .-U:|lE                                                          -
NOTES I
*Details on Specialist Services (including duration and starting date) are shovn in Annex 3-6/
Les detaila our lea services de spicialistes (y compris durfe et date de denarrage) sont en                                                        }
Annexe 3-6.                                                                                                                                      0l!
**Details on Fellowships (including duration, starting date aid tocation) are shown in Annex 3^71 /
lec dftails sur tea bourses (y coopris, duree, date de dec -rage et lieux) aont en Annexe 3-7.                                                   ^
WAPED
December 1984



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 3
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
1.   Civil Works
(a) Civil works contracts for the construction of 21 new laboratories
scattered in revote areas and for the extension of the DGPF. and DIFOP
buildings (together valued at US$550,000 equivalent), which are not likely
to attract overseas firms, would be procured under Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
(b) Civil works for the rehabilitation of lower secondary degree and
science classrooms scattered in remote areas (together valued at US$740,000
equivalent), which are unsuited to competitive bidding, would be carried
out under force account and/or under separate contracts for labor,
construction materials and transportation, as follows:
C)   Under LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA for
contracts valued at more than US$10,000 equivalent;
(ii)   Under comparative shopping and negotiations, Including at least
three quotations, according to procedures acceptable to IDA for
contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, provided
the aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed
US$130,000 equivalent.
2.   Equipment and Furniture (Goods)
2.1 Equipment
(a) Equipment, including vehicles valued at US$2,300,000, would be
procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) according to
procedures acceptable to IDA. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preference margin of 15% of competing imports or the total applicable
customs duties and taxes, whichever is lower. All goods would be grouped,
wherever possible, into bid packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent.
(b) Items of equipment which cannot be grouped into bid packages
valued between US$10,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, would be procured after
LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
(c)  Items of equipment which cannot be grouped into bid packages
valued at more than US$10,000 equivalent, would be procured after
comparative shopping and negotiations, including at least three quotations,
according to procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the agF=egate amount of
such procurement shall not exceed US$100,000 equivalent.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 3
(d) The aggregate amount of equipment procured after LCD shall not
exceed US$310,000 equivalent.
2.2 Furniture
Furniture, valued at US$270,000 equivalent, would be procured
after LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.   Consultant Services
Specialist services, technical assistance and audit services,
valued at US$1,400,000 equivalent, wctld be obtained from consultants
engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines.
4.   Contract Review
4.1 Prior review
For all contracts or bidding packages, financed by the IDA Credit,
valued at more than the equivalent of US$50,000, each of the following
stages in the procurement process should be subject to IDA's prior reviev
and commented upon by IDA staff before they are implemented and finalized:
Advertisement
Prequalification (if called for)
Bidding documents and addenda
Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
Contract documents
Major modifications to the contract
4.2 Post review
For all contracts or bidding packages financed by the IDA Credit,
valued between the equivalent of US$10,000 and US$50,000, two copies of the
final contracts, together with the bid evaluation and the award decision,
would be furnished to IDA for post review before the first application for
withdrawal of credit funds against these contracts.
4.3 Random review
All contracts valued at less than the equivalent of US$10,000 would be
subject to random review by IDA staff during supervision. Contracts would
not be submitted to IDA but held by the Project Implementation Division for
IDA's random and audit review.



- 59 -
ANNE% 3-5
Page 3 of 3
4.4 Initial review
For all contracts valued at les. than the equivalent of US$50,000 (see
paras. 4.2 and 4.3), an initial review by IDA staff may suffice for
standard documents which are common to a number of procurement operations,
for example:
The general format of advertisements and their circulation;
The prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation;
Standing registers of pre-qualified contractors;
Standard bidding documents, including instruction to bidders,
general conditions of contract and even technical
specIftcations in some instances.
5.   iargins of Preference
The preferences allowed by the IDA for local manufacturers in the
awartd of contracts under ICE do not apply under LCB ever in cases where
foreign firms and neighboring countries' firms are permitted to bid.
WAPED
December 1984



- fto -
CIUJCTIO III. INIYDUIT  tSrCF/MWJK    PS  L*AULAZII D- L'fIUCarN
1ESOT1aOr QKSULTANM  StVIC3
Total *en Cost
ullu    of                IatMsel/vact
Sp ctiollet.             .ot ion tot.lo do
Pete, a                  boo do.  At.        Starting Dos/               Surmmy Job  OaocrLption/
Proje ct C4spoeet/              TLtiItTift               *p tiktlt (oUUmS1)  /                        Dar. do dioorrgo             Dntriplox ommoiro due tShi, b/
CAmoweo.o au Pwonie
A. tIWlSC  TUE SuuTr or
tSSrATION/aMLUaATnag ac
A IUAIITE    LdNlt.
1- PriorY Sctol Improve-
moot/An dILretton  do
prl.er dosd
to) Tohsre TracniooFJromien          .mm                        -                      -                    -
due mttres
tb) Torbeobif  lo.m  toitir*  (il) ToStbook Pebliehing           I                     115.211OU 1i(  Preparotion  a poblietiom  or textbok.?
Specialiotlpatcic  olbworation @t idition do. m                                                                          i erotir.
-n aaitim. a ons..i
mcoleirom*ff
Uii)  Textbok dietriboiom       1                      I.9S7                041196            GiO OUr.miosg" otoroe sod diogribution  f tmtboohe
*n dbortiolmt/Spdiolie                                                                  eUrpaiioezlo  do I cnarpoxgt  ot o . d . dittribtion
on dmiBrlhutioo do                                                                      does uoools meoleire..
lomalm scoWlairoe
2.  -r  Sorcdry Scool
I.proooont/Aitor.tio
du d..ciii_ de.rS
a)  ahtb sd Seie 'teethe        ti) mport ir biology             I                   205,000                 10W/l)t           tnodolojr  proprocice of teether.We.lo. nd
UpprodiegiR..yct.ea doh             t hLiog/_tper so                                                                       taher rtr.ixini iL biolooflhithedolo1e. pr0yo
onooigxsrmn doe ascti et         .xm-ioposec do 1.                                                                         rodeo xet foftotice d.x octinmo so bilo1.gic.
dnes erlnre.                      bio Iogic
ti£ Expert in ftech.ooict        I                   105.0fO                 P0/5             Plctbodoiogy  Preeratlo  of teothor  s Ride  end
t-abinxgitret  n                                                                         Craher rrlr.i.LI  oerhsootl cdiogie. pr-
oxmoiRg    C drc m-                                                                      paratie ot forcitior d-o  Ittr-m- ox o-chb ciqmo.
tbhitiqo
ilEi Eivlotio  specialist         1                    55.43S                                  PropartiLon ond iopl~tot oioe of a *cthsodml0  o_d
L. Scienes Teoohiopj                                                                     tecto to onlo tu ottiot   iIeret   in oxthr-
Splielito   -   alo.I -                                                                  mticm   d ecidnrntPriortcio d4 utihod. ot
tion 4d  leigrm  oo                                                                      do temts pur ..lIeer b. d.grt Vaopreti-eeg  dr
lee ..In...                                                                              fl2toem doom lee doconse dos oethbtoiqm.o t
h) lopre-oent of Seirmno             Prooosoeot Sp,rcitiiot.
focilitie./A.ir-tion.            Spcbioote am acb sm           1                   26."7                 021 lioU          Prepmrotin of  qipont hiot. hid docau,.t and
installations  tcirmt                                                                                                     cxtUto4Cirr perotion des limit. d'Sqoipmoot. dos
J. Illtilili THE HMli "                                                                                                       4d-rente dov"l. dCoffreo et doe rcruirot.
O. IHWATIINI MhEtNRAWOT
DI eCATISN/^HcLC5AllO                                                                                                      Studv -t prparr tion of prposle torlwtrdm ot
prEpere:ion de propositibos poor
3. Strengtbening of rdUw        i) CoeSoltrat is Efvle tioel    (Laco1                35.130             1fl9-su               i) the generl      -      olocm    f project impctl
der  I o _alPlsiptforoer         Coolutmnt en Aotoecios        Cotrracte lrtioe utlohbto do limpcct do projoct
_nt do 1a pisifiction                                          Cont ut
d. I 6d e^z!-                                                  loco ll
(iiJ Conoltaiat Lb School         1                   55455                I3ea-87            tli) *O  iplenotic of neheol soppigl
.MppivogCo.msultnt en                                                                    I doptiso d'ot  .orto rcoliro
carcr sclairo
(iii) C .deltsot b, Edm.cetia      I                    17 e2             1916 - 1987          MiiiD eC ortiox finneciig end  soot eigo/
, toaecaog/Coesulru .d  ifinsceosot d, I fdocotion rt rEdction des eti.
em I i.uoccocc doe  Scuco-s
tion
(iL) Co-mlteet is  E    ion       I                   5dct               141As  19 t4 * 296   tio) .decsiion developo,nt pleomplmm do Itolco-
P*IneinglCsroltsnt en                                                                     povnt do I doe tion
plsiificatioe de IUue_-
tim
iv) Computer Spccbiael           I                   55.435              IS)15b-7            it) propartion of a progro  n edcaotion cxctis
Spreimlistm em ioforstton                                                                Oe  o point d4- Progrom_  our In cdltm do
A. boilopmurn of School             C-oltouto  Soiaims in    2                        72.087               19 J87             Pr,paration of schol mimtexoneo Pecars
Rehabilitation sod               School luildies luisecena                                                                Pffporetiou dtun poromr. dentottitru do.
lleixtemesoc Capability/         Or'tnLoatioeu/Caoeutaet                                                                  bkt  utem. ooot
allioratlon des poxi-            epfcielimsoe do Iorono-
bilirdo d   olr. Len stat        mtice dr Veneration dr
sotrertien doe b2t lm          bhtieuto oroloire
5  Str-ngctheiog of Project     (il Audit Fin. Cpntrwct!          -                                      t5c  e7 ar of tI    Asti of Projet           ido  cops.o
laplso.ncmsioo/vsmforoe-         Cootrat pour Virificeatur                                                cd   -jin.
ment do 1.ad ixire tiom          do.  0pte                                                            sonic lu Pro/or
d. eprojte                  CiM  Coneultaot to Acims fe        1                   26.957             ls9A¶-E-R7          To woict in she pirprotion of a ceoucer-based
lckkoopixr Prop.rotimol                                                                 acroout-rcy/Alder a 1- prgaramotiow de 1-
Conoulstot pOoTr ider a                                                                  ceoptabil icE xr orlxecor.
la timr n fon- dr 1
cmptchilitd
Miiil  oteur. Prje;ct Preperr      3                   53.913              19-3900            Specalis-. to be elescted at a later stoot?
cioxfPrdpoctaion VS.eon-                                                                Spc.alimto  4 dloi1r.r a- c-os do prjot.
tWle fucere pmjete
of Costs ieclude trosportatibn coccti C/Ic. coseuinxnt l-o rta. doe te9qe.
bi Trem  of rtforer  ar- intded in dEb Working Papr.T,rm do r#f Erone d#t.liX  figrexn  4o  In- dororot  do traeil.
Detnc_r 1984



,  . |~~~~~I                    1:     J6     ji   i      1            1 1.|iUi iiDN
SUItRY of FEL L SHIFPS/TALEAU SOIAtIRE DCS BOtnSES Ot PERlFCT1'1INN(VK!T
Pass ible
Locations                            Total Base Cast
Number of           for Studies/         Total            stimate/tati-       Basil Qualifi-                    starting
Fellovships/       Lieux                 s.naonthe/    Mation totals 4.   cations of Traine&s/                  Data/
Project Component/          Field of Study/       Nombre de           possibles             Total          base-des coSts       Qualifications de                 D4te he
Composante du Projet         Sujet d'Etudes        boursea             pour lea Otudes       mol-h<mme    fUI/tUl) a!           bhas. des bouralers                d4marrags                     Description
A. Improving the Quality
of tducationlAmfliora-
tion de la Quilitl dh
I tnsemignement
1. Primary School
iaproveacet/
hAdlIoration du
premier degri
a) Teacher Training)    /1) Dlistane learn-             I              Europe/USAICanada           9             14,826           Baccalaureace/Daeca-                  --          HNshodolow  ad organization of
rormtion des               ing/TEle-entsei-                                                                                    isurlat                                            correapondaece course/itthodologis
malLre                    gnement                                                                                                                                                at aegsntsation des couns par
correspondaoee.
111) Teacher Training)        2               Riirope?IUSA/Can4da       18             29,652            Saccrasureata and Degre              --           Techniques to train  and upgrade
Foreation des                                                                                       In  dutcation Science/                            teachers/Techniqus de formation
mattres                                                                                             DiplSm   an science de                           at recyclsge des mttres.
I 'duration
(MII) Obsenvation visitui   20                 Africa                    21,             38,261           Inspectora and ZVI Direc-        During yeara    Visits of Teacher Training Schmols/
Voyages d'dtudes                                                                                    tors/lnspectaurs et Di-          1986 + 19871    Vlsistes di'kolss mormase.
recteose des ENts               Annfes 1986 +
1987
b) Textboohk/Manuels    (1) Tenbooks Component    I                    Europe/Africa               S             10,41S            Baccal1ureate/84cca-            Oct. 1985         Orpanizacioa of the textooks pro-
seotalres                  Direetor/Directeur                                                                                  laurdat                                           duction and distributioo/Organisa-
de  a compos. lte                                                                                                                                     tLan de ls production et de ls
Manuels scolaires                                                                                                                                     distribution des manuels scolairas.
(if) Accountant!              I               Africa                     2             4,41h             Accounting Degree)               Oct. 1985        To set up  n accounting sysit/
Comptabl:                                                                                           Oiploa en comptabilitl                            Nettre au point us  systima  copta-
ble.
(ii) Administrator/            I               Africa                     3             5,957             Degree In Administrstion/        Oct. 1985         Improvement of LIHUSCO admiolatra-
Administrat,us                                                                                      DipIAm  en administration                         tiv  aysteml/Ailioration du sytat-
me aLdministratif de la LII4SWD.
2. Lover Serondary
School lIprove-
nant/AaIl lord-'
tion du deusNime
degrf
-  Math an4 Science       lil Observation vilits        9              Europe/USA/Canads           9            24,191            University Degree In Math    Oct. 1986             Observatlon of math and/or science
Teacher Upgrading/         (I munth)/Voyages                                                                                   or Science/Diplme, univeo-                         tesching/%bservatlon enselgnement
Rcsyclaga des              d'hics (I mois)                                                                                     sitaire en maths Gu sciences                       des maths st/Ou des sciences.
enseignants des       11i) Training for compo-    I                 tunOpelUsA/Canada          2'            44,478            University Degree In Net%    Oct. 1986 A           Hthdology of wtb  nd/or  cene
maths et des                ent coordinator,                                                                                   or Sienre/DlplSme univer-   Oct. 1987              trstning/Mdthodologie de l appren-
5t15nCi1                   Math and Science                                                                                    sItaire eon  aths au sciences                      tios&se dts maths et/Ou des
coordinators/                                                                                                                                         sciences.
Foreatotn   pour lea
coroar,liateurs de
la camposante et
coordonnaetur des
dquipes maths et
sciences
Miii) Short seminars for       I               Europe/USA/Canada         21            41,496             University Degree in Math    Years/Annies    Y4-thoh4oioy of Math and/ar scieneo
math end science                                                                                    or Science/Dipl8am  univer-   1986. 1987 et   training/Nithndolosie ade Iapprsn-
spr ial ices/Stage                                                                                  sitaire en maths ou siefnets ISGG                tlasage des maths at/ou des scioncas
de counte dirEr
pouir splcialistes
de Selnseigneeent
des maCis et des
scienres
!/  Coats include transportation rests/les  cdta ruaprennent les frals 4e voyage.                                                                                                                                     P4



hesibte ~       ~        te
M"L OF rLiaMIPS  AUU #FWAIU  DMt tINCR L N  Pt&uWtIlElt
iecatiase                 fa~~ttal "ate cost
hader of         ar Stediet          total          Otite/lioi-          Basis Qalfit              Startles
roll-ships/l  tLis                   sihl    at I              a   do     atim   *t Traeneet    BactS
Projete      se_ e rCcoast/ I Field of 1 sav     ambdre do       pousib              Total          h        .eat         q-atillOti.t    do       lato 4.
Ce"a sasa. do trai,t         sit ic edtmis        bavsteso         poer lts dto         mit-_          in$                  bat e gas  retiets        dharreac                 Caeripstim
.  laprevisj teh. lases.
mt of Usaciaelo
I-usts.       de b
3.  ltrecthcolej  ll Ugacele. Plocivtt   3      pee. imb3                             ni               tvolwrsii  Polrl" in         ket. 99461I2/  Ifdosis  pl imai.e/ieifieatieede Iddna-
t,1.4ticeal                Plaaificatice it                                                                      Urewaela Scige..              U                ti".
plaimgl/                   tIodoaties                                                                            Ue,ainM Pleannia.
Ntoserceat                                                                                                       b41a(Ltotwice/1t    s
de Iap1.0-1-                                                                                                           t        . c1
dat e isSaience do 1tfdnaticw.
itidecatias                                                                                                       plaittefise eq ode.-
tiatrativ.
ill) tdrateon cPros-         2        Pr4li  IllIP             ia            231 32                   ..s. i te                            Pe otinof apas far " aout dente
slsajPrearetiem                                                                                                                        ntetrdperatie delo pins e   didvela
da l'dd.Aotte                                                                                                                         it Plimasiti..
(MD  tRdeati.e VI.-           I        Pari. itiPil                           il,fll                                       Oct. 199110S    Aulysis at ogdwatis teats adW timscla
ciasWFiaaems                                                                                                                          Oas  ds  .dt. 11 _lsatmno   I*ddeIet-
tIvl Sorha sarpisj           I        PAris  JI0r)              4             I,4t3                                       Ott. I9s         Popasatie at sieSl bIaisaatioe mots-
Cacti Steilae                                                                                                                        disg to sethel aeupsISAPh4.stilo. dAs. p
-tseano   4da aecate    alce a   teet
do le cane seelaIit.
Iv) Awshi.it rsaies        I         Pree.¶ 5SAIC-adS         IS            2611,U.                                     Oct. I31/t        *amoein, ad sdel            t aej etscotoel
Aduistatin do t,Uqctto  at de ftislir.
maca eealeiroe.
(Vii Statistical             I        Ca1s.t. (Yr.d#l    tio                 24rs                                        Oct. 1112/PA      Stetistics ot adatales/StatiatLqis d
Stacittiqmaa                                                                                                                           111dmetlmn.
viii Stolre as r4sa-    S              NaWe  (ALA)              IS            2t,522                   ..IUlt1/SI1l1   iih't 'e-sars eq       preperatise at pIne
tii.  pleastagl                                                                                                                       tar sdtScaiessoi dawtsrmaslMSAaa rew de
tdsitairassa I.,a                                                                                                                     esecta dm50 SW la prnfesiet do Pleas
p*aii irataa*" Jou is il                                                                                                                        "pe   ic  tdd.aa,iics.
(ciii) helene -  pFs-          4        bHrf 1UOA)               2                                                         91,511 ,    13"  Trip. tc visit idelcal pnjecttlieyas
Jes ide-tifira-                                                                                                                       ddtedaa do psajoct siutitsivc
oidlo.ti first to.
de prceta
fit) Studp ctr1af It                      i e AII-!cA vy        4             4.211                                      I       i * loll
%Yaepegieludesis                 CostItali-ECA1
4. relap    t of          Sti   trip. far         '.       Afirma                   I             24.0o4J        Civil .eshsoreiagainsar   itS a iS?            Coeslate with ailiar projcts it s Usaet
lohoal schaili.           praggem s-Aoayti                                                                        c5it S.a .6.4).                               Cecects aet dea pgoe)es esseNces  go
satin s.d mis-          rypv  d'Wsris                                                                                                                          Afq _.
tanwauce Coap-            pout lee tadr's
ility/Adliars-           do Promie
tIem des peasit-
biltits do
it ccrteltin
des bhttmata
scoalfeirs
1.Stremachoeima             Strip iripo for        P           fricauiwcp.            IC           51.411          isapectacs. teouora.         ltMI/SSlStlU 11 TocSeed  similar canse Is other caentrieal
aSf Pajectt               spe   liats 1 id 7oi0strag  tsralls-pac-                                                                                              (ta t  c oat aimitLar   4es    de ct nS Pays.
bqlsontasissl             1erIna-sea  1i-                                                                         er*prefetaora,
Itaalrtalet               voraisa, ash Pa.-oiitaar
do       sI.i saGts. i/l.
preat               ea  tirss sir
Ie  fiudrs     Yee
ft to Csation des
proJess
at Coatle ice Iadc traapartat iof c.stei s1.It s41 rrpcentaiI. 1    1raia do.va.



TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE/PROFIL DES DEBOURSEMENTS
Estimated Project Dlsbursement/                                                       Is
Dank/lDA FY and Quarters   estimatif des dfboursements du                  Regional Sector Profile/
Ending/DanquelIDA fin                        Projet                        Profil                                    12-
des annfes fiscales et         By QOuarter/          Cumulative/           a l'Echielle rfgionale                           - 11--- _____r_____
trimestres                     Par trimeatre        Cumulatif                    (URS Million)                  '     8     Regional Sector Proi le
p I'ieielle riginnale                   -
1986       1  (Sept. 1985)         0.4                  0.4                                                    .     .
It  (Dec.  1985)         0.1                   . 5                        0.1                        *3    ?-                                 */
1II   (March 1986)        0.1                  0.6                                                                                           -
IV  (June  1986)         0.1                 0.7                          0.8 t*
1987       1  (Sept. 1986)         0.2                  0.9                                                                                              timated Project
It  (Dec.  1986)         0.2                  1.1                         1.6                             4~                     ,           Disbursement
III  (March 1987)         0.2                  1.3                                                    a                                       Profile/Profil
IV  (June  1987)         0.2                  1.5                         2.5                       -                        -               estimtif des
^    Z                                ' dbhoaurRements dii
1988       1  (Sept. 1987)         0.4                  1.9                                                                                            P - -  "rojet                  o
1I  (Dec.  1987)         0.4                 2.3                          3.6                             1w
III  (l4Ar.ch 1958)       0.4                 2.7                                                                                                                            I 1* * * *        
IV  (June  1988)         0.4                 3.1                         4.7
Rh      87       dB         89       90     91
1989       1  (Sept. 1988)         0.6                  3. 7                                                                        Piscal Years/Annies fiscales
11  (Dec.  1988)         0.7                 4.4                          6.0
III  (March 1989)         0.8                  5.2                                               (a)  Assuming Credit effectiveness June 1985 and disbursement of
IV  (June  1989)         0.8                 6.0                          7.3                        USSO.5 million on Special Account/Conelderant mise en vigueur
du credit en julti 1985 et diboursement de $0.5 million E.U.
1990       1  (Sept. 1989)         0.9                  6.9                                                    sur compte spEcial.
11  (Dec.  1989)         0.9                  7.8                         8.4                  (b)  Most civil works, furniture and equipment supply and specia-
111  (March 1990)         1.0                  89 8list services assumed to be completed by end of FY87. Related
IV  (June  1990)         1.0                 9.8                          9.4                        payment assumed substantially finalized durln  FY88/Conatruc-
tions, mobilier. fquipement et services de spiciallates
1991       1  (Sept  1990)          0.8                10. 6                                                   seront pour la plupart complitdi  vers In fin de l'snnie fis-
11  (Dec.  1990)         0.8                11.4                        10.3                         cale 1987.  Leurs paiements seront sensiblement finalisis
III  (March 1991)         0.5                11.9                                                     pendant l'annde fiecale 1988
IV  (June  1991)         0.5                12.4                         11.0
(c)  Regional sector profile somewhat modified to take into account
(a) and (b) above and regularly decreasing payments for
substitute teachers' salaries thereafter/Profil du secteur A
I'echelle r*gionale quelque peu modifil an prenant compte des   I
points (a) et (b) ci-dessus avec diminution riguli8re des
paiements pour formation et salaires des maitres suppliants $
par la suite.
APLD 
Deceuber 1984
MOTE: Abscissa indicates start of each fiscal year/
L'abscisae indique le debut de chaque annie fiscale.



TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEKSNT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L' EDUCATION
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION, INCLUDING PRICE CONTINGENCY, TO THE PROJECT BY FISCAL YtEAR/
CONTRIBUTION DU COUVERNEMENT. INCLUANT PREVISION POUR HAUSSE DE PRIX, AU PROJET PAR ANIE  FISCALE
1985 - 1990
(USS '0001'000 dollars EU)
Contractual Fees of 450 Substitute Teachers/           Salaries of Other Local Staff to be Employed
Rdmunirations contractuellee des 450 mattres           for the Project/ialaires d'autres ep6cialistee
suppliants                                             locaux employia par le Projet
Amount
ogo Fiscal                                  to be Financed                                                Amount Paid
Year/Ann4a      Amount to be Financed        by the Government/                  Amount FLnanced by        by the Government/          Total Government
udgitaire      by the Credit/Hontant        Hontant payd                        Project Funds/Montant    Montant pays                 Contribution/Contributiom
Togolalse       finance par le Cridit        par la Gouvernement      Total      financi par l  Cridit    per le Gouverneuent         totale du Gouvernem-nt
1985                 280.0                         -               280.0                0                       31.3                        31.3
1986                 514.1                       57.1              571.2                0                       61.8                       118.9
1987                 415.8                      178.2              594.0                0                       64.3                       242.5
1988                 308.9                      308.9              617.8                0                       66.9                       375.8
1989                 192.7                      449.8              642.5                0                       69.6                       519.4
1990                  66.8                      267.3              334.1                0                       23.8                       291.1
Total
1985-1990             1778.3                     1261.3             3039.6                0                      317.7                      1579.0
Note: Salary increases are based on 0  for 1985 and 41 per annum, 1986-90/L'auguentation des sealaires eat de O  pour 1985 et de 4X par ann4e, 1986-90.
WAPED
December 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 2
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'AMELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION, INCLUDING PRICE CONTINGENCIES, TO CONTRACTUAL
FEES OF THE 450 SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS BY SCHOOL YEAR/CONTRIBUTION DU
GOUVERNEMENT, INCLUANT PREVISION POUR HAUSSE DE PRIX, POUR REMURERATIONS
CONTRACTUELLES DES 450 MAITRES SUPPLEANTS PAR ANNEE SCOLAIRE
1985 - 1990
(US$ '000/1000 dollars EU)
Amount
Togo School                                   to be Financed
Year/Annee        Amount to be Financed       by the Government/
scolaire          by the Credit/Montant       Montant finance
Togolaise *       finance par le Credit       var le Gouvernement    Total
1985-86                   565.6                        0              565.6
1986-87                   466.0                      116.6            582.6
1987-88                   363.5                      242.4            605.9
1988-89                   252.1                      378.0            630.1
1989-90                    131.1                     524.3            655.4
Total                    1,778.3                    1,261.3         3,039.6
*   School year above is defined as July 1 - June 30, for administrative
purposes/Pour raisons administratives, les dates choisies pour l'annge
scolaire vont du ler luillet au 30 juin.
WAPED
December 1984



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-10
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVE1ENT PROJECT/PROJET POUR L'ANELIORATION DE L'EDUCATION
PROJECT FINANCIAL MANAGEMiT AND ACCOUNTING ARRANGEMENTS
The IDA Credit would provide the Project Implementation Division
with technical assistance (6 manmonths) and fellowships (12 manmonths) to
establish and maintain separate accounts to record all project-transactions
from the start of implementation and for at least six months thereafter
until the permanent project accounting system with trained operators takes
over. Such accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and recog-
nized principles and practices satisfactory to IDA to enable the Project
Implementation Division to provide interim and annual financial statements
to reflect the financial performance and position of the project. An auditor's
opinion and report, satisfactory to IDA, on such statements would be provided
within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report
would include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal
controls, on the reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for
credit disbursement, and on compliance with the financial covenants of the
Credit Agreement. The foregoing auditing arrangements would provide adequate
and timely information to IDA for supervision of the project generally.
WAPED
December 1984



IBRD  18680
BURKINA                    MAI)RITANIA  i
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(                                              ,, NIGER
-'1~~ ~   ~ \\   rJRKLY. *
0 C C A od
I.                            f                               an.  !  ^)l        --
J  (    ' \4 KA -A |  -\   A
?9.   . * ?          >q  Lonkod
*   30A  r {/ 
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT 
PROJECT '/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DE L'EDUCATION    ?                                  o9o 
PrtINIARv TEACHER TRAININGSHOOL /*
O   ECOlfE VORMA LE D' flSTrITf"rE4/\
DP ECTORIATE Or EDUCATIONAL PESEPC .-
ofAND TEACHER TRAINING IDIFOPI i                        L   A\T
OU REr,co FN DE LA FORMAYIC,NEPM"AI-E "       P    L   A    T    E-  A    U
DEL ACriGN (rDELAWCNRFCW(RcME PEAGDG,0UrE DI
cFO         - cClJ STr JA   'SRO 'r, -HE
-    hE,-. ._tE- CI .C :DC;LlE  ', D8PTIE BI-                       >     .
-               ~~~r
10E H. m. 0r. AF PH
-     TI.T E                            @  r          
-ES-     'Ei'"
-Z U. -   -  0-f Cy lHrne
we.    S .   rAf .F'  .I
-p-    r SI.  IUA H   
-, V. . w  A,      F     .i                                        - inh
R V~~EEME 
a_Of vl Wwh.  0U 5cf
o" s,. N~~~~~~~~ECEMBR                                                         1  ME, 



