Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13640
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1568-TO)
OCTOBER 27, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB            African Development Bank
BEPC            Lower Secondary School Certificate (Brevet d 'etudes du premier cycle)
BREDA           Regional Office for Education Development in Africa (Bureau regional pour le developpement de
l'education en Afrique, Dakar, Senegal)
CEAP            Basic Teaching Certificate (Certificat elementaire d'aptitude pedagogique)
CEG             Lower Secondary School (College d'enseignement gMngral)
CE              Elementary cycle (Cours elementaire) - I or 2
CFAF            African Financial Community franc
CM               Intermediate cycle (Cours moyen) - I or 2
CP               Preparatory cycle (Cours preparatoire) - I or 2
DCEBS           School Construction and Maintenance Directorate (Direction de la construction et de 1'entretien des
bdtiments scolaires, DGPE/MENRS)
DEPE            Project Implementation Directorate (Direction de 1'execution des projets d'education, DGPE/MENRS)
DGPE            Directorate General of Education Planning (Direction generale de la planification de leducation,
MENRS)
DIFOP           Directorate of Teacher Training and Curriculum Development (Direction de la formation permanente, de
I'action et de la recherche pedagogique, MENRS)
ENI             Primary Teachers College (Ecole Normale d'lnstituteurs)
EU              European Union
GDP             Gross domestic product
Gvt             Government
IA              Auxiliary teacher (Instituteur adjoint)
[AS             Auxiliary teacher trainee (Instituteur adjoint stagiaire)
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
INFA            National Agricultural Training Institute (Institut national deformation agricole, Togo)
INSE            National Institute of Education Sciences (Institut national des sciences de l'education, Togo)
LIMUSCO         Government textbook agency (Librairie des Mutuelles Scolaires)
MENRS           Ministry of Education and Scientific Research (Ministere de l'education et de ia recherche scientifique)
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PA              Pedagogic Advisor (Conseiller pedagogique)
PGI             E.U.'s General Import Program (Programme general d'importation de l'Union Europeenne)
PCR             Project Completion Report
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL             Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SDR             Special Drawing Right
TO              Togo
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
Unesco          United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
US$             United States dollar



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Togo
Educational Improvement Project (Credit 1568-TO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Togo - Educational
Improvement Project (Credit 1568-TO) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
Part II was issued. The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the project experience.
The project sought to improve the quality of primary and secondary educa-
tion through investments in teacher training, textbooks and specialized facilities and to
improve education management through a strengthening of the Directorate General of
Education Planning.
Despite implementation delays, cost overruns, and underutilization of facil-
ities, the outcomes of the project are on balance rated as satisfactory. Institutional
development impact has been modest, but in line with the scope of the related interven-
tions. However, at completion time the project's achievements were threatened by budget
constraints and a volatile socio-political situation. Therefore project sustainability remains
uncertain.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Project Completion Report
TOGO
Educational Improvement Project (Cr. 1568 TO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .......................................................   i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY    ............................................    ii
PART I.                  REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ... ....  1
1.  Project Identity    .................................................                                                                                        1
2.  Background    ...................................................                                                                                            1
3.  Project Objectives and  Description    .....................................                                                                                 2
4.   Project Design  and  Organization                       ......................................                                                              4
5.  Project Implementation    ............................................                                                                                      4
6.  Project Results    .................................................                                                                                         5
7.  Project Sustainability  ..............................................                                                                                       6
8.  IDA   Performance   ................................................                                                                                        9
9.   Borrower Performance  .............................................                                                                                       10
10. Project Relationship   ..............................................                                                                                      10
1 1. Contracted Services ..............................................  10
12. Project Documentation and Data ......................................  11
PART II.    REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... 12
PART III.                STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..............................   13
1. Related IDA Credits .......    ......................................  13
2. Project Timetable ................................................   14
3.  Credit Disbursements    .............................................                                                                                      15
4.   Project Implementation    ............................................                                                                                    16
5.  Project Costs and  Financing    .........................................                                                                                  18
6.  Project Results    .................................................                                                                                       20
7.  Status of Covenants    ..............................................                                                                                     25
8.   Use  of IDA   Resources  .............................................                                                                                    27
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1                  Education expenses in the rural areas of the regions .                                                                                29
Annex 2    Primary school reading and math textbooks.30
Annex 3   The LIMUSCO bookstores .31
Annex 4  Audit Reports.33
MAP    IBRD 18680R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on]y in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
Proiect Completion Report
TOGO
Educational Improvement Project (Cr. 1568 TO)
PREFACE
This document constitutes the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Education
Project in Togo (Educational Improvement Project), for which Credit 1568 TO in the amount of
SDR 12.8 million was approved on March 26, 1985. The credit was closed on June 30, 1992, one
year later than scheduled. The last disbursement was made on November 23, 1992, at the end of the
agreed "grace period", and the undisbursed balance of SDR 3,882.64 was cancelled from the credit,
effective on that date.
The PCR was prepared by the Population & Human Resources Operations Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department, with local support from the Bank Resident Mission in
Lome.
During the final supervision mission of the project (February 1992), it had been agreed that
the Borrower would start preparation of its Part II simultaneously with IDA's work on Parts I and III,
and the completion mission had been scheduled for July 1992. Sociopolitical events in Togo,
however, delayed this mission until September-October 1993. On September 24, 1993, IDA
acknowledged the Government's final progress report and reminded the Borrower about the
preparation of Part II, which was subsequently drafted, but could not be finalized owing to the
country situation. Instead, the draft Parts I and III were discussed between the Borrower and an IDA
education mission in November 1993. Resulting comments have been taken into account to finalize
this PCR.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower's progress reports and IDA supervision reports, as well as correspondence
and minutes of discussions between IDA and the Togolese Government.






- iii -
Project Completion Report
TOGO
Educational Improvement Project (Cr. 1568 TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives (Part 1.2 and 3): In line with the education sector policy and the macroadjustment program
of the Government, the project objectives were as follows:
1. Improve the quality of education at both the primary and the secondary levels: (a) through an
integrated training program for upgrading primary teachers and mathematics and science teachers; (b)
by making low-cost textbooks available to primary students; and (c) by improving mathematics and
science teaching facilities.
2. Improve the management of education through the reorganization and strengthening of the
Directorate General of Education Planning (DGPE).
Design and Organization (Part 1.4)
3. The project was globally well designed in that it addressed the major deficiencies of the education
system, based on a sectoral analysis and development objectives which were clearly understood and
finally shared (the textbook component was not initially fully supported by all relevant parties in
Togo, since its innovative fostering of local inputs was a drastic departure from established practices).
4. The roles and responsibilities of project actors were carefully organized, based on the First
Education Project's experience, to improve coordination and reduce delays. Some conflicting
attributions, however, could not be avoided and resulted in responsibility gaps or imbalances which
were perceived but could not be corrected until the creation, at the end of the project, of a Sectoral
Steering Committee, as proposed by IDA to prepare the follow-up operation (para. 7.2.d).
Implementation Experience (Part 1.5)
5. The project components were all implemented, with the following most critical variances between
planned and actual implementation:
(a) Delays (Part 111.2 to 4): Despite an almost punctual Credit Effectiveness, the Credit Closing was
put back a year and physical completion delayed by up to two and a half years. This slippage was
mainly caused by (i) delays and changes in management arrangements; (ii) lengthy implementation
preparation, procurement procedures, and Borrower/IDA agreements; and (iii) the sociopolitical
situation after 1990.
(b) Costs (Part III.5.A): Mainly affected by drastic exchange rate fluctuations, delays, and some
scope variations, total project costs resulted in an overrun of 35% when converted to US$, and in
savings of 14% and 1.5% respectively, when expressed in CFAF and SDR. Overruns in any currency



- iv -
concerned mainly civil works and training, and were covered by savings on other categories of
expenditures.
Results (Part 1.5 and 6)
6. While most intermediary objectives have been met (some have even been exceeded), the
sociopolitical developments at the end of the project interrupted the functioning of the education
system and froze any significant impact:
(a) Education guality improvement: (i) More teachers than planned have been trained, yet
pedagogical improvement in the classroom was evaluated as below expectations (para. 6.1 .a); (ii) low
cost, locally adapted textbooks were distributed to the LIMUSCO stores throughout Togo, but the
falling-off of household incomes and the dispersion of the rural population are hampering their
availability in the classroom (para. 5.3.c); and (iii) math and science teaching facilities have been built
or rehabilitated and equipped, but underutilized (para. 6.2).
(b) Education management: (i) Education planning has been reorganized and strengthened, and
studies have been carried out; both are useful resources, in particular for preparing the following
project; (ii) a preventive mairtenance system has been launched, and interrupted by upheavals; and
(iii) project implementation capability has been reinforced by training staff and providing equipment,
both still in place.
Sustainability (Part 1.7)
7. The sociopolitical situation and severe budgetary constraints have had a negative impact on
project sustainability. As it addresses most of the same sectoral problems, the proposed Education
Management Project being prepared by IDA (para. 7.3) should help resurrect, sustain and improve
this project's outcome, while promoting necessary change in terms of institutional and budgetary
priorities, decision making process and work methods (para. 7.2.d).
Findings and Lessons Learned (Part I.8 and 9)
8. Findings mainly confirm lessons learned before:
(a) Project design should (i) pay more attention to risk and component analysis, implementability
(capacity constraints, realistic timing and flexibility), management arrangements, and Borrower's
ownership; and (ii) provide for early finalization of implementation preliminaries and procedures, if
necessary through up-front conditionality.
(b) IDA supervision should be improved through (i) appropriate resource allocation and flexibility;
and (ii) ad hoc delegation to Resident Missions.



Proiect Completion Report
TOGO
Educational Improvement Proiect (Cr. 1568 TO)
PART I. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Name: Educational Improvement Project
Credit No.:   1568 TO
RVP Unit:    Africa
Country:     Togo
Sector:      Education
2.    Background
2.1   Sector development objectives
In its 1975 Education Reform, the Government had defined its strategy for developing
education, emphasizing, inter alia, the need to: (i) create an equitable education system offering
adults training opportunities and universal lower secondary education; (ii) improve the quality of
education through teacher training and upgrading, and through adoption of improved curricula,
especially in mathematics and science; (iii) improve the match between outputs of the education
system and the country's manpower requirements; and (iv) strengthen educational planning. At the
time of project appraisal, significant progress had been made towards these four objectives,
notwithstanding Togo's economic and financial constraints.
2.2   Policy context
(a)   In 1983 and 1984, Togo's economic and financial situation and prospects were precarious.
The real GDP fell by 8% in 1983 and increased by less than 2% in 1984; growth prospects over the
medium term remained modest while external debt service increased. The overall balance of
payments was maintained by accelerated SAC I disbursements and Paris Club debt reschedulings, but
was projected to deteriorate. The need for project and non-project financing remained high.
(b)    Faced with a worsening economic and financial situation, the Government recognized the need
for a more comprehensive recovery policy. In 1983 and 1984, it adopted additional more stringent
financial stabilization programs in conjunction with an IMF stand-by arrangement and a first structural
adjustment program supported by a US$40 million IDA credit (May 1983).
(c)    As a result of the Government's austerity program, the education budget started declining in
real terms in 1983. In 1982-83, 25% of the total expenditures for education were financed through
external assistance, of which France provided 34%, IDA 24%, AfDB 16% and USAID 9%. The first
IDA-financed education project (1980-88), for US$11.0 million, assisted the Government in
improving the quality of primary education, relieving shortages of trained agricultural manpower, and
strengthening project management.



2.3    Linkages between project, sector and macro policy obiectives
By aiming at improving the quality and management of education and reducing education
costs, the project fully supported the Government's sector objectives and macroadjustment program:
(a)    In the short-term, the professional skills of all primary teachers would be upgraded, and
facilities would be improved to provide a better learning environment.
(b)    In the long-term, through institutional development and policy dialogue, the project would
provide the sector with the capacity to carry out integrated sectoral planning, optimize the use of
physical and teaching resources, establish a system of school maintenance by local communities, and
plan and implement investment programs.
(c)    To address the Government's financial constraints, the project was designed to minimize
recurrent costs and to ensure the gradual entry of substitute teachers into the Government's budgetary
allocations by phasing the Government's contribution to incremental recurrent costs in annual
increments of 20%.
3.     Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1    Objectives. The project's objectives were to:
(a)    improve the quality of education at both the primary and the secondary levels: (i) through an
integrated training program for upgrading primary teachers and mathematics and science teachers; (ii)
by making low-cost textbooks available to primary students; and (iii) by improving mathematics and
science teaching facilities; and
(b)    improve the management of education through the reorganization and strengthening of the
Directorate General of Education Planning (DGPE).
3.2    Proiect components.
COMPONENT 1: PRIMARY LEVEL
Subcomponent 1.A: Training
(a)    Upgrading of the knowledge and teaching skills of about 5,850 primary teachers through: (i) a
one-year correspondence course; (ii) three one-week seminars organized at the inspectorate level and
conducted by inspectors and pedagogic advisers; and (iii) a three-month upgrading course at a
Primary Teachers College (ENI).
(b)    Training of 60 inspectors and pedagogic advisers to provide on-the-job support to teachers.
Subcomponent 1.B: Textbooks
Production and distribution of reading and mathematics textbooks costing 50% less than those
on sale in the LIMUSCO bookstores at the start of the project.



COMPONENT 2: LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
Subcomponent 2.A: Training
Upgrading of about 1,250 math and science teachers and 21 math and science inspectors
through annual 10-day seminars.
Subcomponent 2.B: Science facilities and teaching aids
(a)    At the Directorate of Teacher Training and Curriculum Development (DIFOP):
(i) construction of a workshop for producing prototypes of simple low-cost science equipment;
(ii) expansion of the training laboratory; and (iii) preparation and production of teachers' manuals.
(b)   In the Lower Secondary Schools (CEGs): (i) conversion of 10 laboratories and construction
of 11 new ones to be used for training purposes; (ii) conversion of 262 classrooms in 234 CEGs into
science rooms; and (iii) provision of furniture and basic instructional materials.
COMPONENT 3: IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
(a)    Reorganization of the Directorate General of Education Planning (DGPE) into three
directorates: Education Planning, Construction and Maintenance, and Project Implementation.
(b)    Support to the Education Planning Directorate and accomplishment of four tasks: (i) study of
the financing of education; (ii) improvement of the system's cost-efficiency ratio; (iii) evaluation of
the upgrading programs; and (iv) production of a school map for the country.
COMPONENT 4: REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES
(a)    Support to the School Construction and Maintenance Directorate (DCEBS) to inventory
classrooms to be rehabilitated and then to organize and supervise the works.
(b)    Training of 8 national supervisors and 50 inspectors in preventive maintenance and
preparation of a maintenance manual.
(c)    Rehabilitation and preventive maintenance of 1,430 classrooms with local authorities and
parents' associations meeting 50% of the cost (CFAF 1,000/year/enrolled student); and maintenance
of the Kara and Nots6 ENIs and of the Tove National Agricultural Training Institute (INFA).
COMPONENT 5: STRENGTHENING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CAPABILITY
Support to the Project Implementation Directorate (DEPE) for implementation monitoring,
financial management and project preparation.



4.     Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project was globally well designed in that it addressed the major deficiencies of the
education system, based on a sectoral analysis and development objectives which were clearly
understood and finally shared by the Borrower and IDA (the textbook component was not initially
fully supported by all relevant parties in Togo, since its innovative fostering of local inputs was a
drastic departure from established practices). Thanks to the dialogue and knowledge established
under the first operation, the project was thoroughly prepared (inter alia with very clear and detailed
Working Papers), almost according to the planned schedule (Part 111.2). The timing was initially
correct, as shown by the comparative credit disbursement schedule (Part III.3), but the country
situation and the first project's ongoing experience should have led to more prudent contingency
planning. Also, the textbook distribution strategy was designed for the LIMUSCO stores, instead of
down to the classroom level.
4.2    The roles and responsibilities of project actors were carefully organized, based on the First
Education Project's experience, to improve coordination and reduce implementation delays, in
particular through a better integration into MENRS' existing structure and claimed concern for
pedagogical aspects: MENRS Directors were made responsible for the implementation of their
respective components, through coordinators appointed by them to work in close collaboration with
DEPE on tasks precisely listed in the project's Working Papers. Some conflicting attributions,
however, could not be avoided, like the responsibility of supervising pedagogical aspects given to
DEPE (a responsibility that relevant, better staffed Directorates could obviously not abandon).
Compounded with DGPE's exclusive control of Credit funds' commitments, this and other "grey
areas" resulted in responsibility gaps or imbalances which were perceived but could not be fully
corrected until the creation, at the end of the project, of MENRS' Steering Committee, as proposed
by IDA to prepare the follow-up operation (para. 7.2.d).
5.     Proiect Implementation
5.1    The project components were all implemented, with the following most critical variances
between planned and actual implementation:
(a)    Delays (Part III.2 to 4): Despite an almost punctual Credit Effectiveness, the Credit Closing
was put back a year and physical completion delayed by up to two and half years. The slippage in
execution of the components--except for primary teacher training, which was a continuation of the
first project--was due to several cumulative factors, including: (i) delays in setting up DEPE; (ii)
sometimes, long negotiations between the Government and IDA before agreeing on certain
implementation arrangements (e.g. to deal with the budget overrun resulting from the slippage of
rehabilitation works); (iii) frequent changes in project management; (iv) lengthy national procurement
and payment procedures; (v) changes of construction sites; (vi) for the textbook component, limited
Government commnitment initially, lengthy copyright negotiations with foreign publishers, and change
of strategy concerning production and distribution infrastructure; and (vii) finally, the sociopolitical
situation after 1990.
(b)    Costs (Part III.5.A): Mainly affected by drastic exchange rate fluctuations, delays, and some
scope variations, total project costs resulted in an overrun of 35% when converted to US$, and in
savings of 14% and 1.5% respectively, when expressed in CFAF and SDR. Overruns in any



currency concerned mainly civil works and training, and were covered by savings on other categories
of expenditures (explanations in Part III.5.A).
(c)    Withdrawal of Credit Proceeds (Part III.5.C): An interim and a final reallocation of funds
between credit categories were necessary to substantially increase civil works and training and more
modestly increase substitute teachers' fees. An undisbursed balance of SDR 3,882.64 was cancelled
from the SDR 12.8 million Credit at the end of the project.
5.2    Some of these variances could have been minimized by a still deeper, but probably longer
project preparation, with more Government participation and ownership (textbook component); by
more and better focused supervision; by a more careful and stable staffing; and by the progressive
streamlining of procurement and payment procedures.
5.3    The three major risks were correctly identified, yet none could be entirely prevented:
(a)    The Government's financial constraints were more severe than anticipated and, for instance,
left the ENIs without any operating budget.
(b)    The Government's ability to implement the project in a timely manner was hampered as
explained above (5.1.a)
(c)    Textbook availability is not satisfactory because: (i) distribution was not organized down to
the classroom level; and (ii) the price system was not progressively adjusted to declining family
resources available for education: although they meet the planned criteria, the present distribution
system and price scale are better suited for urban than for rural areas (75% of the population), for
which the following should be taken into consideration: (i) the wide dispersal of dwellings; and (ii)
the low cash incomes of rural households-CFAF 270/month/household in rural areas, compared with
CFAF 509/month/household in secondary urban centers (Annexes 1, 2 and 3).
5.4    The worsening of the economic and financial situation could have been foreseen (para. 2.2),
and/or progressively taken into account. It would, however, have been less easy to anticipate the
extent of the sociopolitical deterioration which, at the end of the project, prevented the already
delayed school maintenance program from being completed, and generally, quite adversely affected
project results and sustainability.
6.     Proiect Results
While education quality at the primary/secondary levels and education management had
reportedly improved before the sociopolitical events brought the education system to a halt, most
intermediary objectives have been better met quantitatively (in this respect, some objectives have even
been exceeded) than qualitatively (Part III.6):
6.1    Primary level:
(a)    More teachers and inspectors/pedagogical advisors than expected have been trained by the
planned methods; however, pedagogical improvements in the classrooms, albeit obvious, seemed
below expectations, as per the consultants' evaluation, hampered i.a. by insufficient followup
pedagogical support and motivation, given the country situation. All qualified substitute teachers



- 6 -
contracted under the project have been employed on a full time basis as of September 1991, in
compliance with the Credit Agreement; however, no operating budget has been provided yet for the
two Primary Teachers Colleges (ENIs, developed under the previous project), which only survived
out of part of the training per diems.
(b)    DIFOP and LIMUSCO (respectively Government's Pedagogical Directorate and Textbook
Agency) have conceived or adapted, purchased through ICB from foreign publishers (owing to
insufficient local publishing and printing capacity), and distributed throughout Togo low-cost
textbooks in line with planned contents, quantities and price scale, taking inflation into account
(Annex 2). As planned, a revolving fund has helped establish post-project self-financing by
LIMUSCO. Despite the extensive network of LIMUSCO stores (Annex 3), availability of books in
the classrooms is well below expectations (para. 5.3.c).
6.2    Lower secondary level: More mathematics and science teachers than planned have been
trained, but the simple demonstration equipment was not built by all of them (mostly for lack of
means and motivation). Textbooks and teacher guides have been supplied, and science facilities have
been improved or converted and equipped. However, both the consultants' evaluation and its
subsequent study by MENRS, during a seminar, identified shortcomings from the planned outcomes,
like still-insufficient demonstration, practice and linking of the material taught to students' daily lives;
moreover, the slow pace of training school administrators in class rotation organization has further
reduced the priority use of labs for all science classes.
6.3    Education management: Educational planning has been strengthened, as planned, through
reorganization, transfer of supplementary staff, provision of expanded facilities, equipment, training
and specialist services; although the studies (education financing, teacher training evaluation, and
school mapping) have been carried out too late to have an impact on project components, they are
nevertheless a basis for the preparation of the subsequent IDA operations (para. 7.3 and Part III.6.B).
6.4    School rehabilitation and maintenance: all existing CEGs have been rehabilitated, and
preventive maintenance consciousness has been notably improved at the local level through seminars,
information campaigns, and demonstration; communities have contributed 50% of school corrective
maintenance, as planned, but, owing to a late start and the country's situation, for only about 800 of
1,430 targeted classrooms; also, appropriate maintenance of the ENIs has been hampered by lack of
an operating budget. Finally, as a result of the complete closing of schools during the sociopolitical
events, facilities have again or further deteriorated, and this effort has to be resumed (para. 7.3).
6.5    Proiect implementation capability has been reinforced mainly through substantial training and
experience building, including in computer use, as well as by the creation, through short-term
technical assistance, of a simple computerized accounting and financial management system.
7.     Proiect Sustainability
7.1    The sociopolitical situation of recent years, coupled with the severe budgetary constraints, has
had a negative impact on the sustainability of the project. As it addresses most of the same sectoral
problems, the proposed Education Management Project being prepared by IDA (para. 7.3) should
help resurrect, sustain and improve this project's outcome, while promoting necessary change in
terms of institutional priorities, decision making process and work methods.



-7-
7.2    Risk Factors
(a) Teacher Training
(i)    No provision was made for continuing the training of monitors, auxiliary teachers and
trainee auxiliary teachers (replacement of inspectors who retire, organization, operating resources),
although in-service training remains a necessity.
(ii)    Because of lack of maintenance, the Kara and Notse ENIs are not presently in a fit
state to receive trainees and should be rehabilitated before training can resume.
(iii)   The upgrading of science teachers should continue; however, the teacher-trainer who
ran the DIFOP workshop and laboratory is retiring and no replacement has been appointed, and there
are no funds for purchasing consumable training materials.
(b) Textbooks: The present distribution strategy does not fit the situation. Sustainability of production
and distribution is also dependent on management efficiency, which is being audited by the
Government (final results are expected later this year).
(c) School rehabilitation and maintenance:
(i)    The preventive maintenance system that DCEBS has begun to set up will be
operational only if the Directorate is sufficiently strengthened and/or assisted (e.g. by NGOs) to go
into the field and sensitize inspectors, principals, teachers and parents; complete the training of the
regional supervisors; and test, improve and promote the maintenance manual, so that school principals
be better informed and encouraged to mobilize local support.
(ii)    The funding available to DCEBS is insufficient to cover preventive maintenance
(CFAF 7.7 million in 1989/90, CFAF 46 million in 1990/91 and CFAF 20 million in 1991/92, with
50% being financed by local authorities).
(d) Education management and project implementation: A positive development in the evolution of
management capacity within MENRS (paras. 4.2 and 5.3) has already occurred with the establishment
of a Sectoral Steering Committee made up of key directors within the education ministry and chaired
by the Minister. It was established at IDA's suggestion to take responsibility for the proposed
project's preparation and its eventual implementation, but has emerged as the principal decision-
making body within the Ministry, with broad responsibility for policy decisions and implementation.
The Steering Committee, which meets on a weekly basis, is the primary vehicle for ensuring that
information and policy options produced during project implementation are effectively channelled into
the policy formulation process. In this context, it is also responsible for ensuring wide participation
in the preparation and implementation process--both within and outside the Education Ministry--and
for consensus building on the project's objectives and operational strategies. Continuation of this
major institutional development is a key factor for improving educational management, project
implementation and sectoral budgeting provisions (Steering Committee's meetings may include
participation of representatives from the Finance, Planning and other Ministries, on an ad-hoc basis).



7.3    Proposed Educational Management Project
(a) Government educational strategy : Partly on the basis of studies financed under the Second
Education Project (Part III.6.13), MENRS has established its priorities for the reform process in a
Governmental Statement of Sectoral Policy. These place the emphasis on basic education (Grades 1
to 10), with a focus on efforts to improve school quality and girls' participation. The proposed
Educational Management Project is designed as an expression of this policy statement.
(b) Project objectives : The project addresses two closely related themes: development of better
schools and development of better management systems. It supports the MENRS in its efforts to
improve its capacity to: (i) effect quality improvements in instruction and school management at the
primary school level; (ii) facilitate the decision making process by establishing and periodically
updating a customized information system; (iii) prepare and defend operating and investment budgets;
and (iv) consolidate gains from an ongoing ministerial restructuring, particularly in terms of
decentralizing the responsibility for instructional management and creating improved information flow
procedures and work practices.
(c) Main project components addressing previously identified risk factors
(i)    Teacher training: A key purpose of the proposed project's in-service training
component is to help the primary schools move toward establishing the school directors as
instructional leaders, a role initially assigned to inspectors and pedagogic advisors but increasingly
disappearing from the current system. The project would also provide in-service training to
secondary teachers in the use of a new science curriculum. Resources for teacher supervision and
training would be assured by the Government budget. Satellite school arrangements and others for
school principals would be tested through a pilot school network. The project would also help the
Government monitor expenditures within the framework of the education budget for routine teacher
training and supervision.
(ii)    Textbooks : A program for provision of primary school textbooks has been developed
by the European Union, with additional reading books already provided by the Japanese government.
Purchase and distribution of these books has been delayed by the suspension of European Union aid
to Togo, but is expected to occur in the near future (Part III.6.Note 7). Consequently, the proposed
project will focus on textbooks for the lower secondary cycle. This will include purchase and
distribution of textbooks, as well as a training program for teachers in the use of the textbooks.
(iii)   School rehabilitation and maintenance : Many urban and rural schools suffer from a
long-term lack of maintenance, combined with recent vandalism during the civil unrest. This
component would give responsibility for overseeing a three-year program of maintenance to a non-
governmental organization (NGO) with regional experience in managing a broadscale program of
school rehabilitation and reconstruction. A contract will also be awarded to an NGO to provide
appropriate training to communities and school personnel in subsequent maintenance procedures, and
to oversee the maintenance program through an initial period to be determined.
(iv)   Education management and project implementation : A framework for sustainable
improvements in both quality and access would be established through:



- 9 -
a.     Community-based teacher financing: Under a series of agreements with the IMF
since 1984, the Government has frozen recruitment of civil servants. In the education sector, this has
given rise to a number of makeshift arrangements in order to replace retired or deceased teachers.
Each of these arrangements, in turn, has proven unsustainable under the present fiscal crisis. This
project seeks to build on the most positive features of this ad hoc system in order to develop a
decentralized (regional-based) approach for hiring contract teachers, with costs shared by parents'
committees.
b.    Improved management system: The project would mainly strengthen MENRS
capacity to generate and analyze data regarding personnel, facilities and equipment, including
maintenance and rehabilitation needs; budgetary programming and monitoring, to participate
constructively in the budget arbitration process; and consolidation of the ministerial restructuring
currently being prepared by MENRS with the aim of developing a global view of the resources at its
disposal and managing these resources in a manner consistent with national development priorities.
8.    IDA Performance
8.1    Major strengths and weaknesses : Project design was globally correct, carefully prepared and
almost on schedule. IDA succeeded in convincing the Government to include the textbook component
in the project, but promoted book distribution to the LIMUSCO stores only. While carefully heeding
lessons from the first project and correctly identifying major risks, IDA designed preventive measures
and management arrangements which were not entirely successful. Resolving implementation
problems was sometimes made lengthy by the inappropriate duration and staffing of some supervision
missions (Part 11I.8), as well as, globally, inadequate supervision resources (9 staff weeks only per
year, on average, and with a high staff turnover). Taking into account the Borrower's financial
constraints, IDA did not object to the ENIs' operating out of the training per diems only, while
insisting on the provision of a budget. Towards the end of the project, IDA encouraged the
Government to evaluate project achievements and to improve them as necessary and possible, but this
was late and interrupted by the sociopolitical events. To better tackle sectoral issues, IDA finally
promoted the creation of MENRS' Steering Coommittee, and is now preparing with the Government a
new operation addressing sector resumption and development aspects.
8.2    Lessons are the confirmation of now well-known recommendations:
(a)    Project design should pay more attention to (i) the analysis of risks and of all components
(e.g. textbooks in this project); (ii) implementability, in particular flexibility during implementation;
and (iii) project management arrangements, to clearly define the roles and responsibilities for the
institutions and agencies responsible for the project, and to make sure that these arrangements are
well understood and accepted.
(b)    IDA supervision should be allocated appropriate resources, in terms of (i) staff time, mix and
continuity; (ii) mission frequency and flexibility; and (iii) inclusion of a mid-term review and of ad
hoc delegation to Resident Missions.



- 10 -
9.     Borrower Performance
9.1    Maior strengths and weaknesses
(a)    The Borrower cooperated fully in the preparation of the project and in effecting the transition
of activities already started in the first project. Despite an almost punctual Credit Effectiveness,
project start-up and implementation have been delayed by slow management setting-up and
procurement procedures; by an initially limited commitment to the textbook component; by changes in
management, strategies and sites; by unclear responsibility distribution; and by difficulties in securing
appropriate staffing. The Borrower met its financial obligations by making the counterpart funds
available, and by recruiting the qualified substitute teachers. Rehabilitation works were executed with
economy and efficiency (the cost overrun resulted from start-up and other delays). The savings on
ICB-procured science equipment and on locally recruited specialists were wisely used to rehabilitate
all existing CEGs, print more books and train more teachers. The maintenance component, however,
had a very slow start-up, and its burgeoning impact was swept away by the sociopolitical upheavals.
Finally, the Borrower failed to allocate the resources needed to efficiently pursue the activities once
the project was completed: (i) teacher training, including rehabilitation and maintenance of the ENIs;
(ii) textbook subsidizing to make them affordable; and (iii) preventive maintenance continuation.
9.2    Lessons, again, are not new:
Proiect design should:
(a)    take into account the Borrower's capacity constraints, and use realistic timing with regards to
progress in project implementation;
(b)    develop a complete sense of ownership of the project design by the Borrower, through
consensus building by participatory processes;
(c)    identify management, procurement and fiscal issues, and devise up-front conditionality to have
them resolved by Negotiations, Board Presentation or Effectiveness; and
(d)    advance activity preliminaries like terms of reference, standard procurement documents and
other procedures (implementation manual) as much as possible.
10.    Project Relationship
The relations between IDA and the Borrower were cooperative and globally positive, although
sometimes complicated by misunderstandings, mostly as a consequence of IDA's inadequate allocation
of resources to supervision. The situation has significantly improved since IDA's Resident Mission in
Lome established a closer relationship with MENRS.
11.    Contracted Services
There were no major problems with contractors, suppliers and consultants' services. In just a
few cases, guarantees had to be enforced to correct deficiencies in rehabilitation works or delivered
goods. Relevant studies are instrumental in the preparation of the follow-up project.



- 11 -
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1   Overall, the legal agreements (Part III.7) were appropriate and complied with, although
sometimes with delays: forwarding of audit reports to IDA for instance (Annex 4), and DGPE staffing
which should have been secured by up-front conditionality (para. 3.01 d).
12.2   The Appraisal Report formed a valuable reference document despite the difficulty in reading
some of its annexed tables. The project Working Papers were thoroughly prepared and clearly
structured, however:
(a)   the teacher training programs should have been established in coordination with the school
curricula;
(b)    methodological guidance should have been provided for the introduction of the science rooms
and laboratories (which were new features), in order to facilitate this new approach; and
(c)    the objectives and locations of courses and study trips abroad should have been specified.
12.3   The data needed for preparing the PCR were sometimes difficult to obtain; the agreements
reached during the final supervision mission for assembling a complete body of data were not fully
implemented, owing to the sociopolitical events which recurrently disrupted administrative activity
soon after.



- 12 -
PART II. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
During the final supervision mission of the project (February 1992), it had been agreed that
the Borrower would start preparation of its Part II simultaneously with IDA's work on Parts I and III,
and the completion mission had been scheduled for July 1992. Sociopolitical events in Togo,
however, delayed this mission until September-October 1993. On September 24, 1993, IDA
acknowledged the Government's final progress report and reminded the Borrower about the
preparation of Part II, which was subsequently drafted, but could not be finalized owing to the
country situation. Instead, the draft Parts I and III were discussed between the Borrower and an IDA
education mission in November 1993. Resulting comments have been taken into account to finalize
this PCR.



- 13 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related IDA Credits
Title and Year of                 Purpose                         Status and Comments
A"proval
1. Credit 1018 TO       - improve the quality of primary   - credit closed January 25 1988 (2% years
First Education Proiect   education;                       behind schedule). Project implementation
1980.                   - train skilled manpower to further    was deemed satisfactory despite partial
agricultural sector development;   achievement of some objectives and
- institution building in project  completion delays (which resulted mainly
management and preparation.        from supplementary activities financed by
exchange rate related savings);
- the 2 ENIs built for pre-service teacher
training accommodated the 3-month
refresher-training seminars for primary
school staff under Project 1568 TO.
2. Credit 2174 TO       - make technical education and     - effective January 24, 1991;
Technical Education and  vocational training responsive to the   - after a one-year interruption caused by
Vocational Training     needs of the productive sector;    the sociopolitical events, activities are
Proiect 1990            - support institutional development.   resuming and are being readjusted as
necessary.
3. Credit 2211 TO       - sector consolidation and         - effective March 31, 1992; (same status
Health and Population    strengthening of its intemal and  as above).
Sector Adjustment       extemal efficiency.
Credit 1991             - provision of basic preventive and
curative health services.
4. Education            - improve MENRS' capacity to       - preparation has been delayed by the
Management Proiect      develop and apply operational      country's situation;
strategies.                        - Board Presentation planned in late
FY94.
5. SAL IV 1990          - increase basic education and     - effective December 28, 1990;
(Human Resource         materials expenditures;            - appropriate measures had been taken
Development related     - develop overall education strategy    before the sociopolitical events interrupted
measures)               focusing on needs, financing and   IDA's supervision;
budgetary distribution;            - the situation is being reassessed with a
- rationalize health care delivery  view to readjusting as necessary.
system emphasizing decentralized
provision of primary health care
services;
- increase awareness of population
issues;
- increase health budget in particular
for non-personnel expenditures.



- 14 -
2.     Project Timetable
Date Planned       Date        Date Actual
Revised
- Identification ....... .  .  .   .  1/83 (1)                      9-10/82
- Preparation ........ .  .  .   .   3/83 (1)                       4-5/83
- Pre-Appraisal  ....... .  .   .   9/83 (1)                         10/83
- Appraisal ........ .  .  ..   .    1/84 (1)       3/84 (2)         3/84
- Credit Negotiations ......    .    9/84 (1)       12/84 (3)       2/85 (4)
- Board Approval ...... .  .   .    11/84 (1)      3/12/85 (5)      3/26/85
- Credit Signature                                                  4/29/85
- Credit Effectiveness  .....   .    8/85 (6)      9/30/85 (8)      9/18/85
- Project Completion ..... .   .    6/30/90 (7)    12/31/91 (9)    11/92 (10)
- Credit Closing ....... .  .    .    6/30/91 (7)    6/30/92 (9)    6/30/92
- Final Disbursement . . . . . . .                               11/23/92 (11)
Comments
(1)    Source: Initial Project Brief (November 30, 1982)
(2)    Source: Project Brief Update (February 14, 1984)
(3)    Source: Decision Memorandum (May 11, 1984)
(4)    Negotiations were delayed by finalization of Loan Committee Package
(5)    Source: Decision Memorandum Transmittal Sheet (May 11, 1984)
(6)    Source: President's Report (March 4, 1985)
(7)    Source: Development Credit Agreement (April 29, 1985)
(8)    Source: September 3, 1985 Amendment (Telex from IDA to Gvt)
(9)    Source: June 27, 1991 Amendment (Fax from IDA in response to Gvt's June 3, 1991
letter flagging that implementation of certain project activities will not be completed
until December 31, 1991: mainly teacher training, textbook procurement and
evaluation studies)
(10)   Completion of training, textbook purchase and studies (committed by the Closing
Date) was further delayed by the sociopolitical situation (Part 111.4)
(11)   Disbursement "grace period" granted by IDA (June 24, 1992 fax from IDA, in
response to Government's June 22, 1992 letter submitting detailed schedule of delayed
final payments).



- 15 -
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR million)
Calendar Year               198   198   1987  12   1989  1990  1991  1992
Appraisal Estimate (1)       0.5    1.1   2.4   4.5    8.1   11.8  12.8
Actual                       0.0   0.7    2.0   5.2   7.4   10.2  12.1  12.8
Actual as % of Estimate      0      64    83    116    91       86    95    100
Date of Final Disbursement: 11/23/92
Amount cancelled from the SDR 12.8m Credit: SDR 3,882.64
(1) SAR Annex 3-8 (for comparison purposes, the US$12.4 m total credit amount in this
annex has been converted into SDR 12.8m, and the US$ yearly cumulative disbursement
amounts have been proportionally converted into SDRs).
Time line showing estimated and actual disbursement schedules:
14
12 -                                           x
10
c8 
2
 E1 ------0III                                I      I       I
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Calendar Years
x -   Appraisal Estimate ---- Actual



- 16 -
4.    Proiect Implementation
Indicators                      Appraisal          Actual
Estimate
1.  PRIMARY LEVEL
L.A Training
- furniture/equipment                      07/1985-06/1990   05/1987-01/1991
- in-service training of 5,850 teachers    10/1985-06/1990    10/1985-02/1992
- in-service training of 60 inspectors and
pedagogic advisers                       07/1985-07/1989    06/1987-03/1991
1.13 Textbooks
- civil works, furniture, equipment        01/1986-12/1988    09/1989-10/1990
- provision of textbooks                   04/1986-09/1986    06/1989-11/1992
2.  LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
2.A Upgrading of 1,250 math and science teachers
and 21 math and science inspectors         10/1985-16/1990   07/1987-03/1991
2.13 Rehabilitation and construction of 21
laboratories and conversion of 262 classrooms
into science rooms                         11/1985-12/1987    10/1987-06/1991
3.  IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION
MANAGEMENT
- civil works, furniture, equipment        07/1985-12/1985    12/1987-09/1991
- specialist services                      10/1985-04/1990    12/1990-12/1991
- training                                 10/1985-07/1990    10/1987-12/1991
4.  REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
OF SCHOOL FACILITIES
- civil works, furniture, equipment        01/1986-06/1990    10/1986-08/1991
- training                                 09/1986-12/1987   05/1989-07/1990
- preventive maintenance                   10/1985-07/1990   03/1989-09/1991
5.  STRENGTHENING OF PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
- civil works, furniture, equipment           10-12/1986     02/1990-09/1991
- specialist services                      11/1985-06/1990    12/1987-11/1992
- training                                 07/1985-06/1990   08/1990-11/1992
Comments
(a)    The delays in project implementation-except for the training of primary school teachers,
which continued an activity started under the first project-were mainly due to (i) start-up delays,
despite an almost punctual Credit Effectiveness, pending DEPE's setting-up, and reaching agreement
with IDA on implementation arrangements; (ii) four changes of DEPE Directors over the project's
life; and (iii) frequent changes in the MENRS Coordinators responsible for the primary level and
lower secondary level components.



- 17 -
(b)    In the case of the LIMUSCO construction work (textbook component), the delay was the
result of: (i) the time it took to decide on the site for LIMUSCO's central facility; and (ii) the
decision not to repair the leased premises and instead to construct new outlets.
(c)    For the provision of textbooks, the delay was the result of: (i) Government's initial limited
commitment; (ii) the lengthy (unsuccessful) copyright negotiations between the Government and the
French publishers; and (iii) the fact that it took longer than planned to adapt the texts to the Togolese
environment.
(d)    The procurement delays affecting the science facilities were caused by: (i) the complexity and
length of local administrative procedures (clearance by three Ministers and by the Head of
Government for contracts issued following competitive bidding in amounts of over CFAF 50 million);
and (ii) overrun of the appraisal budget estimate.
(e)    For components 3 and 5, rehabilitation of DGPE facilities was delayed by a change of site,
after the military expelled DGPE from their offices--where rehabilitation was underway--to expand
their camp. Specialist services were delayed until the Government and IDA agreed on consultants'
selection. Training of project staff was delayed mainly because they were too busy preparing project
and other activities.
(f)    Preventive maintenance was delayed by DCEBS' lack of experience, despite BREDA's
technical assistance, given the novelty of the component.
(g)    Procurement of works and goods was sometimes hampered by (i) DEPE's slowness in making
payment, owing to inadequate utilization of the Special Account (even after it was increased by about
CFAF 200 million); and (ii) delays by the Ministry of Planning in approving withdrawal applications.
(h)    Lastly, mention should be made of the sociopolitical situation, which disrupted all activity:
(i) multiple strikes during 1991 and in early 1992; and (ii) following the resumption of activity in
August 1992, new upheavals occurred in November of the same year. The situation progressively
stabilized over 1993.



- 18 -
5.      Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
US$000                      CFAF million                       SDR 000
Appraisal       Actual         Appraisal        Actual        Appraisal         Actual
Civil Works          1285             3102            591            911            1324              2350
Fumiture              269              102            124             29            277                 77
Equipment            2716             3306           1250            972           2798               2504
Consultants          1397              892            642            260            1439               676
Training             3310             5174           1523           1531            3409              3920
Project Staff         318              131            146             39            328                 99
Substitute Teachers  3040            4344            1398           1298           3131               3221
Operating Costs      1674             1813            770            528            1724              1375
TOTAL               14009            18864           6444           5568           14430             14222
Exchange rate:   Appraisal: US$1 = CFAF 460.00 = SDR 1.03
Actual Average: US$1 = CFAF 295.17 = SDR 0.7539
Comments:
(a) Civil works: overrun resulted form start-up and implementation delays (inflation and further
deterioration of facilities to be converted and/or rehabilitated), and from agreed expanded scope
(25 new textbook stores, more rehabilitated classrooms and offices, and financing of sturdier concrete
science benches instead of furniture).
(b) Furniture: savings resulted from re-use of existing furniture and financing of concrete benches
under the civil works category (see previous para.)
(c) Equipment: savings in CFAF and SDR resulted from efficient international competitive bidding,
and have been used to print more science textbooks and teachers' guides.
(d) Consultants: savings resulted from relying on many more local specialists (chiefly from the
University) than anticipated.
(e) Training: overrun resulted from agreed additional training of science teachers (in equipment
management and maintenance) and of more MENRS staff (in educational facility design, site
supervision, accounting and management).
(f) Project Staff: savings resulted from the appointment of more civil servants and less contractual
staff than anticipated.
(g) Substitute teachers: savings in CFAF resulted from the freezing of salaries.
(h) Operating costs: savings in CFAF and SDR resulted from more use of local resources than
expected (LIMUSCO had its own budget, and civil works were supervised by Gvt. staff), but also
from start-up delays, and subsequent non-completion of the maintenance component.
(i) General: actual/appraisal deviations vary depending on the currency, owing to the exchange rate
fluctuations between the US$, the CFAF and the SDR (about 80% of expenditures were incurred in
CFAF); the overrun, in US$ only, resulted from the exceptionally high exchange rate at appraisal.



- 19 -
B. Project Financing
US$000                       CFAF million                       SDR 000
Source         Appraisal (%)   Actual (%)   Appraisal  (%)   Actual (%)   Appraisal (%)   Actual  (%)
IDA            12 430   (89)    16 978 (90)    5 718      (89)   5 009  (90)    12 800   (89)    12 796  (90)
Government      1 579   (11)    1 886 (10)       726      (I1)     559  (10)    1 630   (11)    1 426  (10)
TOTAL          14099             18 864        6 444             5 568          14 430           14 222
Comments:  The Government's financing was reduced from  11%  to 10%, and from  CFAF 726
million to CFAF 559 million.
C. Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit (SDR)
Planned                   Revised                   Final (11/23/92
(Credit                  (8/21/90                        Last
Categorv             Agreement)        %       Reallocation)      %         Disbursement)        %
(1) Civil Works      1,340,000        100      2,279,000         100       2,350,382.36          100
(2) Furniture           310,00        100         70,000         100         144,759.94(c)       100
(3) Equipment        2,780,000        100      2,383,000         100       2,574,614.54 (d)      100
(4) Consultants      1,450,000        100      1,049,000         100         675,835.19          100
(5) Training         2,890,000        100      3,820,000         100       3,807,761.88 (e)      100
(6) Substitute Teachers 1,860,000     (a)      1,966,000         (b)       1,962,363.47          (f)
(7) Operating Costs    1,340,000      100      1,233,000         100       1,374,640.14          100
(8) Special Account   520,000                       -
(9) Unallocated       310,000       _
TOTAL             12,800,000                12,800,000                  12,796,117.36 (g)
Comments:
(a) Declining % of local expenditures = 100% until 6/30/86; 80% until 6/30/87; 60% until 6/30/88;
40% until 6/30/89; and 20% until 6/30/90.
(b) Estimated amount of past withdrawals; all further expenditures under this category to be financed
100% by the Government.
(c) Actually SDR 77,340 only for Furniture expenditures (balance for Training: uncorrected category
misallocation).
(d) Actually SDR 2,504,317 only for Equipment expenditures (balance for Training : uncorrected
category misallocation)
(e) Actually SDR 3,919,923 for Training expenditures, cf. (c) and (d) above.
(f) Actual expenditures.
(g) Undisbursed balance of SDR 3,882.64 cancelled 11/23/92.



- 20 -
6.       Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                        Appraisal          Estimate at        Estimate at Full Development
Estimate         Closing Date
1     PRIMARY LEVEL
l.A   Training
- kindergarten teachers                                               57
- monitors                                                         1 329          - theoretical rate: 1,350 teachers
- auxiliary teachers (IA)                     5 8501                              per year', subject to budgetary
- IA and trainee auxiliary teachers (IAS)                          3 706          provision for continued refresher
- school principals                                               2 3642          training in the ENIs (issue being
- inspectors and pedagogic advisers (PAs)        60                 100'          addressed under follow-up
Education Management Project)
- fumiture and equipment for use by PAs
during inspections                              18                  17
L.B   Textbooks                                                                         - with support from the E.U.'s
- reading CP 1                              120 000'            114 9726          PGI,7 45 % of students could have
- reading CP 2                               94 900              102 704          these basic textbooks if the
- reading CE 1                                89 300              82 060          disparities in geographic
- reading CE 2                                70 500              55 796          distribution were corrected; or
- reading CM 1                                66 700              48 783          100% of students could have two of
- reading CM 2                               69 700               37 722          these books.
- math CP I                                   98 100             138 266
- math CP 2                                   77 900             123 340
- math CE I                                   58 400              22 586
- math CE 2                                   46 200              50 000
- math CM I                                   54 700              56 500
- math CM 2                                   57 200              41 000
-     LIMUSCO bookstores newly built or                45Y                  26
restored
2.    LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
2.A   Training
- Math and science teachers                    1 250               1 600          - no operating budget for
- Math and science inspectors                    21                   21          continuation of these activities
2.B   Science Facilities
- Rehabilitation, refurbishing and equipping                                      - all existing CEGs have been
of laboratories                                 21                  21          provided with science labs, which
- Conversion of classrooms into science                                           should now be maintained.
rooms                                         262                  262
3.  EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
- studies                                          6                   6
- staff training                                  25                  20
4.    REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE
- preventive maintenance of CEG                                                   - the remaining 50% to be fully
classrooms                                   1 430                 796          financed by the Government
- CEG rehabilitation                            234                 2209
- staff training                                  2                   8"'
- maintenance manuals                         13 000               5 500
- posters                                                        13 200"
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
- staff training                                   7                  612



- 21 -
Comments
1.    The SAR makes no distinction among the three categories of primary school teachers to be
trained:
(a)    Monitors, who have the primary school certificate and a few years of lower secondary
school (college); there are village monitors, recruited locally by parents who have
opened a school and provided it with one local teacher (maitre); then there are the
prefecture monitors, employed by the regional authorities before being admitted into
the civil service;
(b)    Auxiliary Teachers ("Instituteurs adjoints, IA"), who have the CEAP (basic teaching
certificate); and
(c)    Trainee Auxiliary Teachers ("Instituteurs adjoints stagiaires, IAS"), who have the
BEPC (Lower Secondary School Certificate) and who do not have the CEAP.
Kindergarten teachers were upgraded to help bridge the gap at the primary level.
2.     These 2,364 school principals have all had one month's training; 992 of them have had an
additional two-month session. Their training was not planned, but appeared as necessary to put them
at par with the trained teachers they will manage.
3.    It was not possible to determine the exact number of inspectors and pedagogic advisers who
have received training; the component coordinator puts it at about a hundred.
4.     This rate is at present theoretical; to take in 1,350 trainees, the ENIs should be repaired
(buildings, equipment and furniture) and provided with an appropriate operating budget.
5.     The figures in this column represent the number of textbooks planned to be produced in two
printings.
6.     The figures in this column represent the textbooks sold by LIMUSCO. But it is not possible
to distinguish between sales to parents at the 93 LIMUSCO outlets and those made (at a 10%
discount) to retail bookstores, or those made to charitable associations, which distribute the books to
the schools free of charge. It is therefore difficult to analyze the sales activities of LIMUSCO's
bookstores.
7.     Under the General Import Program (PGI), the European Union is to supply some CFAF 700
million worth of textbooks to be leased to every primary student (one math book and one French
book for CFAF 200 a year). IDA will therefore focus on the secondary level (Part 1.7.3 (c) (ii)).
8.     At appraisal, it was proposed to restore 28 fully-owned LIMUSCO bookstores and 17
operated under a lease or loan arrangement. Later, it seemed preferable not to invest in premises that
did not belong to LIMUSCO, but instead to build new bookstores to free up those that had been
leased. In the end a total of 25 were built, and only 1 restored (at Pya).



- 22 -
9.     The SAR indicates that 234 CEGs built as permanent structures were to be rehabilitated.
Taking account of a few closings (for lack of enrollments or because the structures were only
temporary) it is considered that all these CEGs have been rehabilitated. The number of rehabilitated
classrooms is not available. The works sometimes affected only part of the CEGs, most frequently
only the building where the laboratory or science room was installed.
10.    These comprised three professionals from the central Ministry and five regional supervisors.
11.   The number of posters was not determined at appraisal. The mission was unable to see this
material, since DCEBS has not kept any copies.
12.   This comprises DEPE management and accounting staff. The other DGPE professionals
having received fellowships for training or study trips are listed in components 3 and 4. In addition
to this formal training, account should be taken of the in-service, ad hoc training given throughout the
project by the accounting/auditing consulting firm and the financial and management consultant who
assisted the project management unit.



- 23 -
B. Studies
Study                  Purpose as Defined at Appraisal          Status                  Impact of Studv
1. Adaptation du systeme          - Study significant facts at the    - Published August    - These first seven studies served
educatif a l'environnement socio-    macroeconomic and sectoral levels  1991                as the basis for the Government's
economique (Adaptation of the     - Review education expenses and                           "Declaration of Education and
education system to the           propose an appropriate distribution                       Training Sector Policy"'
socioeconomic environment)        between the different levels of
INSE, Togo                        education in light of manpower
needs and budgetary constraints
2. D6veloppementdes ressources   - Develop a supervisory mechanism     - Published
humaines (Human resource          to monitor education cost trends     September 1991
development)
Togolese consulting firm
3. Coat et financementde          - Evaluate the quality and efficiency    - Published
l'education au Togo (Cost and     of the education system and make     September 1991
financing of education in Togo)   improvements
Togolese consulting firm
4. Amelioration de l'efficacite                                        - Published
interne du systeme educatif                                            September 1991
(Improvement of the intemal
efficiency of the education
system)
Togolese consulting firm
5. Amelioration de la capacit6 de                                      - Published
gestion du systeme 6ducatif                                            September 1991
(Improvement of the management
capacity of the education system)
Togolese consulting firm
6. L'ecole primaire en Afripue:                                        - Published
fonctionnement, qualite. produits:                                     February 1991
le cas du Togo (The primary
school in Africa; operation,
quality, products: the case of
Togo)
French University
7. El6ments your une politique                                         - Published
educative nouvelle au TogO                                             November 1991
(Components of a new education
policy in Togo)
French University
8. ADpui A l'execution de la                                           - Published October   - This study served as the basis for
carte scolaire nationale du Togo                                       1991                 staff training and organization in
(Support for creation of Togo's                                                            the Tchaoudjo prefecture. It
national school map)                                                                        provides the methodology,
Togolese consulting firm                                                                    conceptual and operational tools,
and resources to be deployed to
extend the school map to the entire
country'
9. Formation d'evaluateurs de     Evaluate educational projects and    - Published March    - Training for a group of teachers
programme de formation du         progiams                             1991                in evaluation methodology and
premier degr6 (Training of                                                                  application
evaluators of primary school
training program)
Belgian University



- 24 -
Study                Purpose as Defined at Appraisal       Status                Impact of Study
10. Formation d'evaluateurs de                                   - Published March    - Ditto
pro2ramme de formation du                                        1991
second degr6 (Training of
evaluators of the lower secondary
school training program)
Belgian University
Comments:
1.      The studies made available as a basis for preparation of the Declaration of Education and
Training Sector Policy were distributed within MENRS, to the Ministries of Planning and Finance
and to technical ministries, to promote discussion of education in terms of its goals, its content, and
student graduation profiles.
2.       The school mapping study was discussed in a seminar, which also served as an introduction of
the methodology to MENRS staff.



- 25 -
7.        Status of Covenants
Covenant          Purpose                                                    Status
2.02 (b)     Special Account       - CFAF account No. 9030 59095 0175 at Banque togolaise pour le commerce international (BTCI)
for the duration of the project, from 06/13/1986 to 06/30/1992. The Authorized Allocation was
increased by SDR 190,000 equivalent in July 1989.
2.03         Closing Date          - Original closing date of June 30, 1991 was extended on June 24, 1992 to June 30, 1992.
3.01 (a)     Diligence and         - Delays in setting up the DEPE held up the effective start of most activities by at least one year.
efficiency of project   - Changes of leadership, delayed start on training, and sociopolitical upheavals from 1990 onwards
execution             adversely affected project implementation.
- All MENRS directorates were associated with project implementation.
- The local counterpart funding was made available (with the nuance that the operating budget for
the two ENIs came directly from the IDA-financed training per diems).
3.01 (b)     Implementation        - The program was implemented, and sometimes exceeded (training), although with delays.
program
3.01 (c)     DGPE directorates     - Maintained in conformity with the Credit Agreement.
3.01 (d)     DGPE staffing         - The additional Togolese staff were made available, but their performance has been hampered by
delayed appointment, training and technical assistance.
3.02         Procurement           - Agreed procedures were followed.
4.01 (a)     Project accounts      - Properly maintained, with recurrent short-term technical assistance (see Comments).
4.01 (b)     Account audits        - Appropfiate audit reports furnished to IDA, some with delays though.
4.01 (c)     Statements of         - Records and accounts properly maintained and audited.
expenditure
4.02         Continuation of       - Hampered by financial constraints and the sociopolitical situation (Issue being addressed under
training programs     new operation).
and operation of
facilities
4.03         Full-time             - Admission into the civil service starting 09/30/1990.
employment of         - Of the 660 substitute teachers (of whom 450 were paid by the project), 434 were taken on full
substitute teachers    time on January 1, 1990. They were taken over by the project until August 31, 1991. Of these,
260 were admitted into the civil service in September 1991.
5.01         Effectiveness         - 09/18/1985, instead of 07/28/1985.
5.02         Borrower's            - The structure of the DGPE and its staffing were maintained at the date of the PCR.
obligations under
3.01 (c) and (d).
Comments
4.01  (a)           An accounting/auditing consulting firm  installed the project accounting system,
audited project accounts, provided training in materials control accounting [comptabilite matieres] to
DGPE staff in 1992, and helped update the accounting records for the period 1986-1993.
An individual financial and management consultant was employed for:
-         16 weeks, between March  1988 and October 1989, to reconstitute the project
management accounts;



- 26 -
14 weeks, between November 1989 and May 1990, to set up the project budget
monitoring system and train managers;
14 weeks, between November 1990 and March 1991, to participate in the preparation
of bidding documents, bid evaluation, and training of local staff in procurement
procedures; and
7 weeks, between April 1991 and February 1992, to update the project financial
management system.



- 27 -
8. Use of IDA Resources
A.    Staff lnputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  Weeks
Through Appraisal (including Appraisal)                                  142.0
Appraisal Through Effectiveness                                           5.3
Supervision                                                              62.9
Completion                                                                12.8
Total                                                                   223.0
B.    Missions
Month/        Nurnber and Specialization of      Staff Days
Mission                     Year                  Participants               in Field
Reconnaissance              6/82         2 (E,GE)                               10
Identification             9-10/82       3 (E,GE,AE)                            15
Post-Identification         2/83         3 (E,2GE)                              31
Preparation                4-5/83        8 (E,2GE,TS,DLS,GSE,AE,A)              131
Post-Preparation            7/83         3 (GE,A,MSTS)                          18
Pre-Appraisal               10/83        6 (E,GE,AE,A,TS,MSTS)                  90
Appraisal                   3/84         4 (E,GE,A,TS)                          52
Post-Appraisal              7/84         1 (LO)                                  3
Post-Appraisal              9/84         1 (EAS)                                5
Post-Appraisal              11/84        2 (E,GE)                               12
Post-Appraisal              11/84        1 (TS)                                 4
Post-Negotiations           6/85         1 (A)                                  6
Supervision and Completion (see table on next page)



- 28 -
Number and      Staff
Month/   Specialization   Days in
Mission         Year    of Participants    Field              Performance Rating by Type of Problem
O    D    L    M    F    P    T    TA    S    E   FP
Supervision 1   3/86        1 (EP)         3       2    1    -    2    2
2   5/86         1 (A)          4       2    1    -    2    2
3   11/86       2 (As)          8       2    1    -    2    2
4    1/87        1 (EP)         4       2    2    -    3    2
5   9/87       2 (A,TS)         12      2    2    -    2    2
6   11/87       1 (GE)          14      2    2    -    2    2
7   6/88       2(GE,IS)         19      2    2    -    2    2
8   12/88      2(GE,IS)         6       -    -    -    -    -
9   7/89        1 (OA)          7       2    2    1    3    1    3    2        2    2    1    2
10   10/89       1 (OA)          6       1    2    1    2    1    2    2    2    2    1    2
11   6/90      2(OA, IS)        12       1    1    1    2    1    2    2        2    2    1    1
12   11/90      2(IS,RA)        11       2    2    1    2    1    2    2        2    2    1    1
(6/91 Mission cancelled owing to the sociopolitical situation; major educational aspects followed by IDA
Education Specialist during missions for other projects in 2, 3, 10 and 11/91)
13   2/92         1 (IS)        10       2    2    2    2    2    2    2        1    2    -    2
Completion     9-10/93   2 (GE,FMS)        29
Symbols:
Specializations: E=Economist; GE=General Educator; AE=Agricultural Educator; TS=Textbook Specialist;
DLS=Distance Learning Specialist; GSE=General Science Educator; A=Architect; MSTS=Mathematics and Science
Teaching Specialist; LO=Loan Officer; EAS=Education Administration Specialist; EP=Education Planner;
IS=Architect/Implementation Specialist; OA=Operations Assistant; RA=Research Assistant; FMS=Financial and
Management Specialist.
Types of Problem for Performance: O=Overall Status; D=Development Impact/Objectives; L=Compliance with Legal
Covenants; M=Management; F=Availability of Funds; P=Procurement Progress; T=Training Progress; TA=Technical
Assistance Progress; S=Studies Progress; E=Environmental Aspects; F=Financial Performance.
Performance Rating: I =problem-free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3 =major problems with solution
underway; 4=major problems without solution underway (none in this project).



- 29 -
Annex I
Education expenses in the rural areas of the rezions
R. I     R.2      R.3       R.4       R.5       Overall
estimated # of households   95 276   105 141   29 160   44 848    36 789      311 214
average household size       5.04      4.85     6.85     6.44      8.49        5.75
pop. density km2/region/l990  223      47        25       45        45          61
estimated                     245      357      279       233       126        270
exp./month/household in
CFAF
estimated exp./month/per      49        74       41       36        15          47
capita in CFAF
estimated exp./year/per capita  588    888      492       432       160        564
in CFAF
cost of basic supplies, CP 1                                                   1 370
Comments
(a) R. 1 = maritime region; R.2 = plateau region; R.3 = central region; R.4 = Kara region; R.5 =
savanna region.
(b)    The data on rural household expenses are taken from Telegramme Enquete, budget,
consommation #11 (November 1992): "Household expenses in rural areas and in secondary urban
centers-overall results," permanent data bank on living conditions of households. Directorate of
Statistics, Ministry of Planning.
(c)    The figures for population density per km2 (in 1990) are taken from the Rapport National sur
la population togolaise (National Report on the Togolese Population) (September 1993), published by
the Ministry of Planning.
(d)    The cost of the requisite basic supplies, by level (circular No. 3023 MENRS of August 20,
1990) is updated each year by LIMUSCO.
For the upcoming school year, the mission took the example of CP 1, for which basic
supplies are estimated at CFAF 1,370: Mon premier livre de lecture (My First Reading Book) (610),
Le nouveau calcul quotidien (The New Daily Math Book) (295), one 32-page notebook (65), one
small drawing book (75), one blue ballpoint pen (50), one pencil (25), one slate (45), one ruler (30),
one eraser (25), one report book (110), one khaki book cover (40).
This sum (expense per student, the lowest for all students enrolled in primary school),
represents more than twice the annual education expense of a rural dweller. To these items of
expenditure should be added the school bag, clothes and possibly shoes.



- 30 -
Annex 2
Primary school reading and math textbooks financed by the project
Trends in retail prices to the public
1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93     1993/94
CP 1
Reading          500 (430)   550 (430)   550 (430)   600
Math                        275 (330)   275 (330)    290
CP 2                                                             Price
Reading          545 (460)  585 (460)   585 (460)    640        scale
Math                        300 (330)   300 (330)    310        from
CE 1                                                              310
Reading          725 (520)   775(520)   775 (520)    840         to
Math                                    395 (330)     395        650
CE 2                                                              for
Reading          865 (570)   865 (570)   865 (570)   930         all
Math                                                 430        books
CM 1                                                              (d)
Reading          865 (570)   865 (570)   865 (570)   970
Math
CM 2
Reading          910 (600)   910 (600)   910 (600)   975
Math
Comments
(a)    All prices are expressed in CFAF.
(b)    The figure shown in parentheses is the price initially estimated by LIMUSCO at appraisal.
(c)    According to LIMUSCO, the price differentials are attributable to increased manufacturing
and distribution costs. On the other hand, the purchasing power of the communities has declined
even further since the start of the sociopolitical upheavals.
(d)    Source: March 1994 IDA follow-up mission to LIMUSCO.



- 31 -
Annex 3
The LIMUSCO bookstores
1.    New LIMUSCO bookstores built under the project, by prefecture and locality (in
parentheses): TONE (Tandjoare), OTI (Gando), BINAH (Ketao), BASSAR (Guerin-Kouka,
Kabou), TCHAMBA (Kaboli, SOTOUBOUA (Adjandi, Blitta, Pagala-Gare), OGOU (Glei),
AMOU (Hiheatro, Amou-oblo), WAWA (Tomegbe), KLOTO (Kpalime, Danyi Apeyemi), ZIO
(Agbelouve -visited by the mission), YOTO (Ahepe), VO (Hahotoe), LACS (Agbedrafo, Aklakou,
Afangnan, Glidji), GOLFE (Agoe-nyeve, Adidogome, Akod&sswa).
2.    The rehabilitated store is the one at Pya, in KOZAH prefecture.
3.    DCEBS is not involved in maintenance of these buildings, since this is LIMUSCO's
responsibility. But LIMUSCO has not yet allocated any funds for this purpose and does not have the
necessary technical capabilities. Given that LIMUSCO is an agency of MENRS, DCEBS would be
well advised to pay attention to these buildings, which are starting to deteriorate (for example, water
erosion at the foot of the walls, damage from stones thrown at the roof).
4.     Each storekeeper keeps eight notebooks:
-     monthly expenses (small purchases for the day-to-day running of the store);
-     payments to LIMUSCO (with postal order stubs);
-     price increases and discounts (instructions sent from the central office);
-     delivery slips (list of books and supplies received, showing delivery slip number);
-     cash flow (daily cash flow, but without identification of items sold; there is no way of
knowing whether the figures correspond to books, pencils, notebooks, etc.);
-     damaged and missing items (inventory taken upon receipt of goods; identification of
items that are damaged or missing-there were frequent notifications to this effect);
-     night-watchman's wages (the storekeeper shows the amount and date of payment of
the night-watchman's wages);
-     visits to clinic (if the storekeeper or night-watchman falls sick, he goes to the clinic,
and the doctor or nurse writes the reason for the visit in the notebook).
5.    Notes on the bookstore visited
(a)    The storekeeper is employed under contract, is not a seconded teacher, and receives CFAF
42,000 per month. He has not received the brief training offered under the project, but completed a
five-month internship at the central depot, acquiring knowledge not always relevant to the tasks that
he has to perform in his store.
(b)    He takes quarterly inventory of books and supplies. He is liable for all missing items and
must pay for them himself, unless he identified them as missing in his incoming inventory. However,
if anything is stolen (in the event of a break-in or any other event beyond his control), he is not held
liable.



- 32 -
(c)    This storekeeper's notebooks were particularly well kept. On the other hand: (i) the store is
not attractive, it is a simple storeroom without any attempt at decoration; (ii) the books and supplies
are stored very untidily and the place is dirty, all of which leads to the deterioration of the articles for
sale; and (iii) the indexing system is very disorganized. All this denotes a lack of guidance and
monitoring on the Dart of LIMUSCO's central office and inadequate training. And the storekeeper
cannot be blamed for the fact that the schools have been closed since November 16, 1992 (almost a
year); the lack of visitors and customers is not conducive to the keeping of a clean and tidy store.
(d)    According to the storekeeper, in this small commune of AgbWlouv6: (i) over half the students
have no books; (ii) the teachers do not buy books; (iii) the books do not reach the neighboring
villages, being too expensive and also unknown; and (iv) the teachers do not explain the value of
books to the parents. His sales consist almost exclusively of supplies and a few copies of the math
book, Le nouveau calcul quotidien.



- 33 -
Annex 4
Audit Reports
End of fiscal year   Submission deadline   Report date      Delay
-     12/31/1986            04/30/1987        02/25/1988      10 months
-     12/31/1987            04/30/1988        02/25/1989      10 months
-     12/31/1988            04/30/1989        05/17/1989      0 month
-     12/31/1989            04/30/1990        07/31/1990      3 months
-     12/31/1990            04/30/1991        06/27/1991      2 months
-     12/31/1991            04/30/1992        05/29/1992       1 month
-     12/31/1992            04/30/1993       09/30/1993(a)    11 months
Comments
(a)    The last audit report was received at IDA's Resident Mission on March 21, 1994, delayed by
the sociopolitical events.






IBRD 18680R
+\-.    BURKINA FASO                                      MAERITAN A
K. doo~  (    ,, UENEGAL'0
.GUINEA-_.,,             T-_
/ \ t j vioundov~~~~~~~~~~~r J o     ClNA-I> -<>/2  NIGERIA
IC.  /( A   abn 9nde
Lama=mmbt    .  t   -T)hamba
<Dde-|)    K=b LomLa->S,,qod                              _
I             wS           (             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Bafilo 
Bossor R        
SIC  E  N             \ T     A L
1                \   j         ~~~~~Tchomba\
z
TOGO
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT /
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DE L'EDUCATION    ?
PRIMARY TEACHER TRA NING SCHOOL /                 T,h O    =oSoA. 
ECOLE NORMALED 0NSTITUTEURDS
D RECTORATE OF EDUCAT ONAL RESEARCH
AND TEACHER TRAININSGOD FOP, /
DIRECT/oN DEL4 F ROUEA TLOPEO ANEE    J        L       LAE      NT IEE    A    j
DEL ACTION ET DE LA RECHERCHE PEDAGOG/OUE /0/FDlfO
REG10115 Ol SE/ rsE   COF /S9LN'TOS21 LABORAATO/RES                                            co
5 A.XuA      C                     J A       _Ko n onhou         Z
C FARA NTIF                                                        k _  m
PLATEAl.     I                                                     k.po
MAR T VE     5                        Kper,
- A N RDADS 1 . ", PC /A    A                  B. Amlame                              I
RA LAP'S ./ FEfRREt/
A IERS &lfU.WEs
RL INA.L /A.NDAR ES
-   -   M TE/5SFOEL 255                          8 
-  --NT EANAT  A.L RBOUN. AR ES FR1rEAEOES   (
Notsr
Trh S/Ad lBnE s sdlea~- .cA/ s ;
IA. AOSl A                                            /5--A
hAs IE c   .R. I0 f                     To          /
DORA?555 LA. asonrsaV fon. G@
Ld her nlon= T-  =dt
on iff p  do rol rnd pnoin.| 
It forhn. A  8ew B.. A                                                               b
hlL~ F-.c CLon-                                                                       0 L / \ /lD1D
ot rs tory or ue \ _ zL / r \ ;~~~s vi
bsIflRVa/~9 EE.c Dsssosbo_
0       20      40       60       80      100
Ki LOME TEERS
LAME
AUGUST 1986



