Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repoit NO. P-3978-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 12.8 MILLION (US$12.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR AN
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1985
This document has a resticted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
Iheir official duties. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 - CFAF 460
(West Africa Regional Rate for February 1985)
MEASURES
1 m   -  3.28 ft
1 m2   ,  10.76 sq ft
1 km2   =  0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -   African Development Bank
AfDF      -   African Development Fund
CIMAO     -   Societe des Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
DCEBS     -   School Construction and Maintenance Division ("Direction de la
Construction et de l'Entretien des Batiments Scolaires")
DEPE      -   Project Implementation Division ("Direction de 1'Execution
des Projets Education")
DGPE      -   Directorate General of Educational Planning ("Direction
GEnerale de la Planification de 1'Education")
DIFOP     -   Directorate of Teacher Training and Curriculum Development
("Direction de la Formation Permanente de l'Action et de la
Recherche Scientifique")
DPE       -   Educational Planning Division ("Direction de la Planification
de l'Education")
ENI       -   Primary Teachers College ("EcL-e Normale d'Instituteurs")
FAC       -   French Aid and Cooperation Agencv ("Fonds d'Aide et de
Coop6ration")
LIflUSCO   -   Goverment's textbook agencv ("Librairie des Mutuelles
Scolaires")
MFSD      -   Ministrv of First and Second Degrees ("Ministare de
l'Enseignement des Premier et Deuxieme Degres")
MTFD      -   Ministry of Third and Fourth Degrees ("Ministere de
l'Enseignement des Troisieme et Quatrieme Degres")
OPAT      -   Agricultural Marketing Board
RNET      -   Regie Nationale des Eaux du Togo
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
October 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:       Ministry of National Education
Credit Amount:     SDR 12.8 million (US$12.4 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:       The major objectives of the project are to:
1) Improve the quality of education in primary and
lower secondary schools through these measures:
(a) for primary school improvement, upgrading the
skills of 5,850 primary teachers by providing
an integrated program consisting of
correspondence courses, seminars at
inspectorates, three-month upgrading courses at
Primary Teachers Colleges (ENIs), on-the-job
support to teachers by inspectors and advisers
(60 in total) who would be provided refresher
training; and providing low-cost textbooks to
students.
(b) for lower secondary school improvement, through
(i) an integrated program upgrading the skills
of about 1,250 math and science teachers at
annual seminars; on-the-job support to teachers
by the 21 inspectors who would be provided
refresher training; and preparation and
distribution of teacher guides;
(ii) improved science facilities by
rehabilitation of 12 existing, and construction
of 12 new, laboratories and workshops for
teacher training and prototypes of simple math
and science equipment; conversion of 262
classrooms in 234 lower secondary schools into
science rooms; and basic instructional
materials and science equipment.
2) Improve the management of education through
assistance to:
(a) the Educational Planning Division for improved
planning and allocation of financial, physical
and teaching resources in the education sector;
(b) the School Construction and Maintenance
Division to develop a capability for school
rehabilitation and for preventive maintenance
by rural communities and teachers; and
(c) the Project Implementation Division to
strengthen project preparation and
implementation.
This document is a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed- without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(US$ '000)
Categories (costs net of
taxes and duties):                         Local      Foreign      Total
----(US$ '000)--
Civil Works                                     653.2       411.6    1,064.8
Furniture                                       140.2        82.3       222.5
Equipment                                        75.4     2,150.0    2,225.4
Consultant Services                              92.0     1,150.5    1,242.5
Training Costs                               2,193.2        473.5    2,666.7
Salaries of Project Staff                       293.7                   293.7
Contractual Fees for Substitute Teachers   2,799.8           --       2,799.8
Other Operating Costs                           539.0       808.6    1,347.6
Tot.- 1 Base Cost                            6,786.5      5,076.5   11,863.0
Physical Contingencies                           86.9       264.4       351.3
Price Contingencies                          1,082.7        711.8    1,794.5
Total Project Cost                           7,956.1      6,052.7   14,008.8
Rounded                                   7,950.0      6aQ50.0   14 000.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
-_---(US$ '000)-
Organization
IDA                                          6,350        6,050      12,400
Government                                    1,600         --        1.600
Total                                       7-950 -050               14,002
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
-----(US$ Million)          )---
Term
Annual                0.7   0.8   1.6   2.9   3.8   2.6
Cumulative            0.7   1.5   3.1   6.0   9.8  12.4
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.



- iii -
Benefits
and Risks:              The main benefit of the proposed project would be to
improve educational quality and strengthen the efficiency
of sectoral management. In the short-term, the
professional skills of all primary teachers and of lower
secondary math and science teachers would be upgraded, and
facilities would be improved to provide a better learning
environment. In the long-term, through institutional
development and policy dialogue, the project would provide
the sector wit& the capacity to carry out integrated
sectoral planning, optimize the use of physical and
teaching resources, establish a system of school
maintenance by local communities, and plan and implement
investment programs. The project faces three major risks.
The first concerns the Government's financial constraints.
To address this problem, the project has been designed to
minimize recurrent costs and to ensure the gradual entry
of substitute teachers into the Government's budgetary
allocations by phasing the Government's contribution to
incremental recurrent costs in annual increments of 20Z.
The second risk concerns the ability of the Government to
implement the project in a timely manner. To minimize
this risk, the project includes elements to strengthen the
organizational units responsible for educational planning,
administration and project implementation-a process of
institution building begun under the First Education
Project. The third risk is that the quality improvement
objectives of the project may be endangered if students
are unable to purchase textbooks because of shortage or
excessive prices. To minimize this risk, the project
includes a component aiming at increasing the availability
of textbooks at reduced cost.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5293-TO
Map: IBRD 18680



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESTDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR AN EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Togo for SDR 12.5 million (US$12.4
million equivalent), to help finance an Educational Improvement Project.  The
Credit would be made on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Togo: Country Economic Memorandum"
(3416-TO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1982. Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects, updated by recent Bank
missions, is reflected in the following paragraphs. Annex I provides basic
country data.
Introduction
3.        Togo is a small country (56,000 km2) -ith a population of about 2.8
million and a per capita GNP of US$340 (1982). Phosphate mining accounted
for more than 40 percent of exports in recent years, and contributed to about
17 percent of Government revenues. Likevise, the three main agricultural
export crops (coffee, cocoa and cotton) represented 25 percent of exports and
about 10 percent of Government revenues. Political stability has prevailed
since 1967. when General Eyadema became President after a military coup. The
Government has gradually become civilian. Togo's external policy favors
regional and international cooperation.
Recent Economic Developments
4.        Until 1974, the Government of Togo pursued cautious economic and
financial policies and succeeded in achieving rapid economic growth, with an
average annual growth rate of 7% in real terms, while maintaining internal
and external financial equilibria. This economic growth was based on a
significant change in the structure of the economy, with the share of mining
and trade increasing rapidly while agriculture declined. The expansion of
retail trade activities stemmed from the role of Togo as regional trading
center for Nigeria, Ghana, Burkina Faso and Niger. The growth of the mining
sector was the result of increased phosphate rock production which reached
2.6 million tons in 1974. In agriculture, Togo largely achieved food
self-sufficiency, except in years of severe drought. Concerning export
crops, cotton production has grown significantlv, even during drought years;
but production of other export crops (cocoa and coffee) stagnated in the
early seventies due to insufficient incentives for farmers and poorly
conceived-investment projects in the sector. Despite chis rapid economic
growth, consumption and investment were kept under control. The economy
became more and more export-oriented, mainly due to the significant



development of phosphate rock exports. The balance of payments was in
equilibrium while the public finance deficit remained modest and was financed
on a sustainable basis.
5.        In 1975, Government revenues doubled as a result of a fourfold
increase in phosphate prices. The Government embarked on an ambitious public
investment program and undertook expansionary fiscal and monetary policies.
A number of state enterprises were created, and new investments were
implemented in the social sector, infrastructure, luxury hotel construction,
public buildings and industry, many of which proved unprofitable. Most
investments were financed by foreign borrowings, in part on commercial terms.
Economic growth was initially sustained by the investment program. However,
by the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s, the economy started
to slow down and then declined, resulting in serious imbalances in public
finance and the balance of payments. The gross domestic product (GDP)
declined by 3.9% in 1981 and by 2.3% in 1982. As early as 1978, the
Government began to accumulate payment arrears to external creditors as well
as to its local suppliers. By 1979, the overall fiscal deficit had reached
14.3% of GDP and the balance of payments current account deficit 23.1% of
GDP. Under two IMF-supported financial stabilization programs, Togo
negotiated external debt reschedulings in 1979 and 1981; the Government began
to reduce its investments and to limit the growth of its expenditures.
Consequently, the fiscal deficit and the current account deficit were reduced
significantly in 1982 to 6.92 of GDP and 11.2% of GDP respectively.
Nevertheless, external debt service continued to increase as well as domestic
and external arrears.
6.        Faced with a worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government recognized the need for a more comprehensive recovery policy. In
1983 and 1984, it adopted additional more stringent financial stabilization
programs in conjunction with an IMF stand-by arrangement and a first
structural adjustment program supported by a US$40 million IDA credit in May
1983.
Structural Adjustment
7.        The main elements of the structural adjustment program included:
(a) rehabilitation of viable state enterprises and closure and/or liquidation
of non-viable entities; (b) greater emphasis on rural development, through
the appropriate price and marketing policies for both traditional exports and
foodcrops; (c) promotion of the mining industry through diversification and
increased value-added; (d) encouragement of private investment in small and
medium-scale enterprises; (e) development of energy resources; and (f)
improvements in macroeconomic management, notably investment programming.
8.        Togo has made good progress in implementing the first structural
adjustment program. The second tranche of the IDA SAC credit was released on
July 9, 1984; about US$39 million has been disbursed to date, and the balance
is expected to be disbursed soon. Togo also made good progres:, in achieving
the objectives of the financial stabilization programs supported by the
International Monetary Fund's stand-by arrangements in 1983.
9.        Our general assessment of the macroeconomic policies in Togo is
that significant improvement has taken place since the end of 1982. However,
deficiencies remain in national economic management and the reforms in



policies and public sector institutions initiated under SAC I need to be
completed. With regard to the exchange rate, Togo's currency, the CFA franc,
has depreciated substantially since 1981, in line with the French franc to
which it is pegged. The nominal exchange rate against the US dollar was
depreciated by 17.8 percent per year between 1980 and 1983 and the real
exchange rate by 13.3 percent. Therefore, the exchange rate is probably not
seriously overvalued. Nevertheless, distortions still exist between the
prices of tradable and non-tradable goods and between the urban and rural
sectors. In particular, the system of industrial incentives does not
encourage exports and further substantial rises in agricultural producer
prices will be required to unlock productive potentital in the rural sector.
The Central Bank has maintained positive real interest rates since 1980, and
Togo has succeeded in retaining large foreign deposits in its banking system.
unlike other countries in the region. Price controls are limited to fixing
profit margins for a small number of basic products. Utility tariffs are
periodically adjusted in relation to costs and there are no subsidies on
fuel, electricity and water. Lastly, the Government is improving public
investment programming, the public enterprise sector management and its
fiscal policy. As a result of these macroeconomic policies, resource
allocation is being improved and the external current account deficit and
budget deficit have been significantly reduced.
Current Economic Situation and Prospects
10.       Despite significant non-project external assistance, Togo's
economic and financial situation and prospects remain precarious. In 1983.
the combined adverse effects of the drought, the reduction in regional trade,
and the worldwide recession, caused the GDP to fall by 8% in real terms. In
1984, there are encouraging signs that economic performance will be better in
certain sectors. For example, owing to favorable weather, food crop and
cotton output has risen. In addition, phosphate rock production and export
have increased. However, economic growth is still hampered by the closure of
the Nigerian borders and the suspension of production by the multinational
cement clinker plant, CIMAO. Overall, the real GDP increase in 1984 has been
less than 2% and growth prospects over the medium-term will remain modest
while external debt service will continue to be high. In the depressed
economic conditions of 1983 and 1984, the share of consumption in GDP
declined as well as the investment ratio. As a result, the resource gap/GDP
ratio has decreased in 1983 and 1984 and the current account deficit
decreased from 11.2% of GDP in 1982 to 10.4% in 1983 and 9.6% in 1984.
Regarding the capital account and the overall balance of payments, large
inflows of short-term capital from neighboring countries together with
accelerated SAC I disbursements and the Paris Club debt reschedulings more
than offset the current account deficit, leading to a CFAF 24 billion overall
surplus of the balance of payments in 1983. The overall balance of payments
in 1984 is foreseen to have been in equilibrium.
11.       Over the medium-term, balance of payments projections indicate a
deterioration in the current account deficit. The projections depend on the
world market prices of phosphate and agricultural products, and on the
implementation of the possible phosphoric acid plant. Along with the
deterioration of the current account, the projections of the capital account



-4-
show a decrease of capital inflows due mainly to the foreseen reduction of
short-term capital from neighboring countries. Moreover, government revenues
will continue to be insufficient to cover debt service, current expenditures
and a minimum level of public investment. Therefore, the need for external
financing of the balance of payments remains strong over the next few years,
in the form of both non-project aid and debt rescheduling. With the 1984
reschedulings, debt service accounted for 33% of exports receipts and 35% of
Government revenues. By the end of 1990, debt service is projected to be 36Z
of export receipts. Although further progress is expected in reducing the
public sector deficit in 1985, the need for project and non-project financing
remains high.
12.       Based on this assessment, the Bank is preparing a second structural
adjustment program. The program aims at consolidating and expanding in
significant ways the progress achieved under SAC I with regard to Government
finance, the public sector investment program, agriculture, public enterprise
rehabilitation, and small- and medium-scale enterprise promotion. It also
calls for a reorganization of the public administration in key economic
departments. Under the auspices of the UNDP, the Government plans to hold a
Donors' Round Table in June 1985 to mobilize both project and non-project
assistance to Togo's development.
PART II -  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
13.       Bank Group lending to Togo totals fifteen credits amounting to
US$209.73 million of which 99.6 million is undisbursed, and two loans
totalling $53.0 million. IDA lending has financed roads; agriculture (cocoa,
coffee, cotton and food crops); education; technical assistance to the
Ministries of Plan and Rural Development and State Enterprises; a regional
DFC operation; and credits for the feasibility studies for a phosphate
fertilizer project and for the Nangbeto regional hydroelectric pover project
and a further credit for the development of Nangbeto. The two Bank loans
(US$3.5 million to Togo and US$49.5 million to CIMAO jointly and severally
guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo) have provided financing for the
CIMAO regional clinker plant. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Group operations in Togo as of September 30, 1984.
14.       In the past, project lending has dealt with development needs and
policy issues in specific sectors. However, following the deterioration of
the overall economic situation of the past few years, sector specific
actions are no longer sufficient. A more comprehensive approacn supported by
policy-based lending such as that envisaged under the ongoing structural
adjustment program is required. Moreover, in a small country like Togo,
where it is not possible to be involved in all sectors, structural adjustment
lending provides an opportunity to support development in a broad range of
sectors. In those sectors where the Association is already involved, not
only has project lending been consistent with the goals of the structural
adjustment program, but in addition, components of several recent projects
have been designed to prepare for and support the adjustment program.



15.       The first and second Technical Assistance Projects have been
helping the Government to formulate sound investment and macroeconomic
policies. Through these projects, the Association initiated a close policy
dialogue which has been essential for the preparation of the structural
adjustment program. Consultant studies of several state enterprises have
been financed in order to determine their potential viability, and in the
case of those which are, to identify measures necessary to improve their
performance. A capacity to conduct project appraisals and to monitor the
performance of ongoing development projects has been established in the
Planning Ministry.  A planning unit has been established in the Rural
Development Ministry to analyze agricultural prcject proposals. Under its
auspices, a review of all rural development projects has been conducted in
order to provide the basis for the formulation of a rural development
strategy. In addition, a price analysis and monitoring unit located in the
agricultural marketing board, OPAT, and a research coordinating unit have
been created.
16.       IDA has made five credits for agricultural projects designed to
stimulate food crop production and to increase farm incomes through
development of major cash crops such as cocoa, coffee and cotton. Under the
latest such credit for the Second Rural Development Project in cotton areas,
subsidies will be phased out and producer prices will be reviewed annually.
Since this project covers most of the country, these measures provide a good
basis for a more comprehensive review of price and subsidy policies.
17.       A water supply project approved in FY83 would improve water supply
in Lome and help carry out future project preparation and other studies. The
water and sewerage agency (RIET), an important and economically viable state
enterprise will be strengthened as a result of the project. The four credits
in the road sector have supported efforts to build up an efficient
maintenance service, upgrade the country's main roads, and to start
comprehensive transport planning and coordination, including an ongoing study
of how to streamline and improve the operations of the government-owned
railway company. A separate project for feeder road development provides for
improvement works and rural maintenance operations. The First Education
Project has financed the construction of teacher training facilities and
expansion of existing facilities, and fellowships.
18.       Togo's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement is generally satisfactory.  The Government is now familiar with
the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays are sometimes
encountered however, because of the cumbersome administrative regulations in
Togolese public contract award.  The Government has been sensitized to this
problem and is working with the Bank to find appropriate means to simplify
the procedures. There have been a few cases of project delays caused by
shortages of counterpart funds.



- 6 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAININC SECTOR
Overview
19.       Togo, with net first and second degree enrollment ratios of 63Z and
43%, is one of the few West African countries where universal access to a
10-year basic education cycle could be achieved by the end of the century if
the past decade's trend in the growth of annual enrollments continues. Rapid
expansion has resulted partly from the exceptionally strong public demand for
education (education is seen as a passport to civil service and other
employment), and partly from the Government's control of educational costs at
the primary and lower secondary levels. However, in contrast to the growth
e:.perienced in the 1970s, the gross enrollment ratio in the 5-14 age group
(first degree), declined from 72% in 1980-81 to 66% in 1982-83.  The reasons
for this decline are not clear.  There is some reason to believe that the
freeze on civil service hiring is partly responsible by creating doubt in the
minds of parents that schooling guarantees a modern sector job for their
children. Further, underfunding by the Government of the first and second
degrees has caused the quality of schooling to deteriorate. Without remedial
measures, which the Government is finding difficult to take in tF-e light of
its economic and financial problems, enrollments and the cost-efriciency of
the system will deteriorate further.
20.       In structure and organization, Togo's education system is similar
to that of other French-speaking West African countries. A primary cycle of
six years (first degree) is followed by a four-year lower secondary cycle
(second degree) and a three-year upper secondary cycle (third degree) from
which students graduate with a baccalaureate. Togo's university (fourth
degree) was established in 1974. Technical education is offered at five
second degree institutions and two third degree lycees. The latter award a
technical baccalaureate. Qualified teachers are trained in Togo for the
first, second and third degrees, and abroad for the university.
21.       Until recently, the general education system was administered by
the Ministry of First and Second Degrees (MFSD) and the Ministry of Third and
Fourth Degrees (MTFD). The MTFD, in addition to third and fourth degree
schooling, was responsible for all essential first and second degree support
functions (e.g., teacher training, curriculum development, planning), leaving
the MFSD responsible mainly for the delivery of education through its
decentralized system of inspectorates. During project preparation, the
Government and IDA discussed the administrative inefficiency caused by the
MTFD having jurisdiction over planning, statistics, school mapping and
construction (in the Directorate General of Educational Planning, "Direction
Generale de la Planification de l'Education" - DGPE) and curriculum
development and teacher training (in the Directorate of Teacher Training and
Curriculum Development, "Direction de la Formation Permanente de l'Action et
de la Recherche Scientifique" - DIFOP) for the first and second degrees.
Aware of the need to improve the efficiency of educational management, on
September 13, 1984, the Government combined the two ministries into a single
Ministry of National Education. Agricultural education is the responsibility
of the Ministrv of Agriculture. Responsibility for vocational and technical
education, as a result of the recent ministerial reorganization, has been



moved from the former MTFD to a new Ministry of Technical Education and
Vocational Training in order to establish a more effective relationship with
employers and to emphasize employment-oriented training.
Quality of Education
22.       The quality of education at the primary and lover secondary levels
is low, as evidenced by high repetition, dropout and failure rates. In the
first degree, 15% of a cohort starting the school year in 1981-82 dropped out
prior to reaching Grade 2 and only 44% of the same cohort reached Grade 6.
During the 1982-83 school year, 42% of the students enrolied in Grade 6 were
repeaters, and only 47% of the children passed the examination for entry to
lower secondary school. Finally, only 12% of the students who completed the
second degree entered the third degree.
23.       Several factors are adversely affecting the quality of education at
the primary and lower secondary levels, the most striking being the extremely
low percentage of qualified teachers at both these levels. Only 10% of the
first degree teaching staff and 24% of the second degree teachers have been
professionnally trained. Within the latter, only 16% of the math and science
teachers have professional qualifications. The overall quality of math and
science teaching also suffers from the fact that the better students are
attracted to the private sector because of higher salaries than in the
teaching profession. Secondly, student working conditions are very poor.
Teaching and learning equipment and materials are scarce. Textbooks, most of
which are bought by parents, are expensive. At the primary level, 20
students frequently share one book. Thirdly, the curricula at both levels
are too abstract and divorced from the students'environment. In math and
science, which are the weakest subjects taught at the second degree, theory
is overemphasized at the expense of practical application; moreover,
teaching materials for these two subjects are nonexistent. Finally, the
physical facilities are not conducive to efficient learning. Thirty-six
percent of the primary classrooms are temporary shelters; the remainder,
built mainly by rural communities, have deteriorated badly due to lack of
maintenance. In 1982 the maintenance budget for all school buildings (except
the university) was about US$48,000, which translates to about US$4 per
classroom.
24.       As the low quality of education is partly responsible for the
current decrease in enrollments at the primary level (para 19) and for the
low academic standards in math and science at the lower secondary level,
action is needed to address the most deficient factors - namely, teacher
qualifications, math and science teaching, and student working conditions,
including scarcity of textbooks.
Management of Education
25.       The management of the sector suffers from inefficiencies in (a)
budgeting and financing, (b) use of the existing capacity, and (c)
administration.



-8-
26.       Budgetary allocations and financing constraints.  There are four
major issues related to the costs and financing of education.  First,
education expenditures are skewed in favor of the third and fourth degrees.
Per-student costs at the upper secondary and university levels are high
US$445 (117% of GNP per capita) and US$3,195 (841% of GNP per capita)
respectively in 1983 (compared to 182 and 1192 of GNP per capita for
secondary and highc. education in South Asian countries). This is due to a
generous fellowship policy (about 16% of total education expenditures was for
fellowships during the 1982-83 school year) and relatively high salaries for
upper secondary and university teachers.  Second, donor assistance is
unevenly distributed. While parental contributions are spread equally among
all levels of education, the major part of external assistance finances the
third and fourth degrees (primarily fellowships and expatriate teacher
salaries). Third, costs at the primary level, now low, are likely to
increase. Until now, the Government has been able to keep the per-student
costs at the primary level the lowest in the region: US$28 (7% of GNP per
capita as compared to 29% cf GNP per capita in other francophone African
countries) during the 1982-83 school year. This is because the average
salary of primary school teachers is only about twice the GNP per capita and
teacher/student ratios are on the high end of the acceptable range (1:47).
This low cost, however, is likely to increase because: (a) in 1982, the
Government raised the minimum entry-level requirements into the teaching
profession and therefore the salaries of teachers; and (b) since the 1980-81
academic year, enarollments at all levels began to decrease. Fourth, as a
result of the Government's austerity program, the education budget has been
declining .in real terms since 1983. These factors make it important that the
Government review the financing of the education system and develop a more
equitable and efficient allocation of resources within the sector.
27.       Capacity utilization.  Due to inadequate monitoring of the
educatior system and inadequate planning and coordination among the different
departments, existing physical and teaching resources are used inefficiently.
Despite the regulation limiting each pupil to one repetition during the
primary education cycle, approximately 15 years of schooling must be provided
to produce one primary school graduate. In 1982-83, 26% of primary students
and 62% of lower secondary students were over-age. More efficient use of
teaching time is needed at both urban and rural schools. In rural areas,
student/teacher ratios are low; expansion of multi-grade teaching would
reduce costs substantially.  In contrast, overcrowding in urban schools would
better be addressed through use of the double-shift system (in 1982-83, the
teacher/pupil ratio in Lomg was 1:55, as opposed to the national average of
1:47).  Finally, for efficiency of learning/teaching, improvement of physical
facilities is necessary so that loss of teaching hours under inclement
weather conditions can be minimized. An improved sector planning capability
would permit the Government to make better use of existing capacity.
28.       Efficiency of administration.  During implementation of the First
Education Project, a major source of administrative inefficiency was the lack



-9-
of communication and coordination between the two ministries of education.
Following the recent merger of these two ministries (para 21), it is expected
that the decision-making process will be faster, and coordination between the
operating and support departments will improve. The second source of
inefficiency concerns two of the sector service institutions, curricula
development/teacher training (DIFOP) and planning (DGPE).  The strengthening
of the DIFOP is key to long-term inmprovement in the quality of the
teaching/learning process (paras 22-24). The reorganization and the
strengthening of the DGPE is key to t;i(. preparation of educational
development strategies and financing plans appropriate to sectoral and
manpower needs and curren_ budgetary constraints (paras 25-27).
Government Strategy for Educational Development
29.       The Government's strategy for the sector is set forth in the 1975
Education Reform. The Reform emphasizes, inter alia, the need to: (a)
create an equitable education system that will provide adult training
opportunities and universal lower secondary education; (b) improve the
quality of education through teacher training and upgrading, and through
adoption of improved curricula, particularly for mathematics and science; tc)
improve the match between the outputs of the education system and the
country's manpower requirements; and (d) improve educational planning.
Despite current economic and financial constraints, the Government has taken
three steps to implement these policies. First, it has made progress towards
implementing a mandatory 10-year basic education cycle. This effort,
however, has been slowed by the Government's precarious financial position.
Second, the quality of education at the pr--ary and lower secondary levels is
being improved through the development of new curricula, inclurci±-r the use of
local languages of instruction at the first degree. through expansion of
teacher training and upgrading programs, and through improving math and
science teaching at the second degree. The latter involves the use of
relatively modest basic equipment, prepared by teachers from local materials.
And finally, steps are being taken to strengthen educational planning
capabilities. One recent development was the opening of five regional
planning units.
30.       External Assistance to Education.  In 1982-83, the major external
support for education came from France, which provided 34% of total external
assistance. Additional assistance came from AfDB and USAID. In 1982-83, 25%
of the total expenditures for education was financed through external
assistance; of this, 60% went for teacher salaries and fellowships. French
aid provided salaries for third and fourth degree teachers, fellowships for
fourth degree students, and assistance to carry out DIFOP's activities.
AfDB, which provided 16% of the external assistance, supported the
construction and operation of two technical schools, one of which includes a
technical teacher training section, and assisted the Government in setting up
and organizing the former Directorate of Technical Education and Vocational
Training (para 21). USAID, which provided 9% of the external assistance,
financed teacher salaries and curriculum development for the introduction of
agricultural subjects at the second degree level. Assistance from other
donors (17%) was used primarily to finance teacher salaries and fellowships.
IDA provided the remaining 24% of external assistance.



- 10 -
The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development
31.       The first IDA-financed education project, for US$11.0 million,
assisted the Government to: (a) upgrade the quality of teachers through
construction of two primary teacher colleges and the financing of upgrading
programs; (b) reorganize and strengthen the curriculum development/teacher
training unit (DIFOP) to prepare teacher upgrading programs; and (c) train
agricultural technicians, teachers of agricultural sciences for secondary
schools, and advisers to the primary inspectors for teaching agriculture in
primary schools. Physical implementation of the project was completed in
December 1984, six months behind schedule. Costs exceeded appraisal
estimates by 28X, due to supplementary works agreed between the Government
and IDA. The new institutions are being used and maintained satisfactorily.
Training and upgrading of teachers, now progressing satisfactorily, initially
incurr'ed delays because of the Government's inability to finance teacher
salaries. The Credit Agreement was amended to finance these salaries.
Because of the delays incurred in the teacher training and upgrading program,
it is expected that the Closing Date of the First Education Project will need
to be extended from June 30, 1985, to June 30, 1986.
32.       Sectoral lending objectives.  In support of the educational
objectives and strategies of the Government's education reform (para 31),
which are essentially sound, IDA'stobjectives are to improve the quality of
education and management of the sector, and to reduce education costs.
33.       Quality of education.  With the First fEducation Project (Cr.
1018-To), institutionalized primary teacher training was begun (para 31). By
the end of the implementation period of the proposed project, all primary
teachers' skills would be upgraded and the number of textbooks available to
students would be increased substantially. The project would provide the
initial quality improvement at the lower secondary level by upgrading
teaching skills in the currently weak math and science areas. Similar
efforts in other subject matter areas at the lower and upper secondary
schools as well as math and science at the latter would be necessary in the
future. To improve the learning environment, the proposed project addresses
development of a capability for school rehabilitation and for preverntive
maintenance by rural communities and teachers; this would require continued
monitoring and intensified effort in the future.  At both the primary and
lower secondary levels, efforts to improve the quality of education must
include student access to textbooks.
34.       Sector management.  The First Education Project focused on
strengthening curriculum development and teacher training capabilities
through reorganization of the DIFOP. Two further important improvements in
sector management result from the proposed project. First, merger of the two
ministries of education, which was a point of discussion between IDA and the
Government during project preparation, has now been accomplished (para 28).
Second, the project provides for strengthening and reorganization of the DGPE
into management units for planning, construction/maintenance and project
implementation -- each with clearly defined responsibilities. Studies and
technical assistance to be provided under the project would enable IDA and
the Government to maintain policy dialogue to further strengthen sector



- II -
management. Future projects would also need to focus on redesigning the
examination system and bringing the output of the vocational technical
training system more closely in line with the demands of the labor market.
35.       Cost control.  The project seeks to reduce overall and per student
costs through more efficient resource utilization, development of low-cost
school maintenance capability, and reduction of textbook costs. It also
provides assistance for studies to propose ways to reduce costs of higher
education. Further support, beyond the project, would be needed to put
cost-reduction measures into place. In FY86, the Bank/Unesco Cooperative
Program will undertake sector work with primary focus on education financing
and expenditure control.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission in September
1982. Educational and architectural specifications were prepared by the
Government with assistance provided by the Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program
prior to project appraisal (March 1984). Negotiations were held in
Washington, from February 25 to 28, 1985. The Togolese delegation was led by
H.E. Komlan Agbetiafa, Minister of National Education and Scientific
Research. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5293-TO) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The project, implemented over a period of five years, has two major
objectives: to improve the quality of education, and to improve the
management of education. To improve the quality of education at the primary
level, 5,850 teachers would be upgraded through an integrated training
program and the cost of textbooks would be reduced to make them more
affordable for primary school students; at the lower secondary level, about
1,250 math and science teachers would be upgraded through an integrated
training program, and physical facilities for math and science teaching would
be improved. To improve the management of education, the Directorate General
of Educational Planning would be strengthened and reorganized into three
divisions: to develop the Government's capability to improve educational
planning, financing and efficient resource allocation; to develop a school
rehabilitation program and a maintenance capability in local communities; and
to improve project preparation and implementation.
Improving the Quality of Education
38.       Primary school improvement.  To improve the quality of education at
the primary level, about 5,850 teachers lacking professional qualifications
(para 23) would be provided training to upgrade their teaching skills and
subject-matter knowledge, and 60 inspectors and pedagogical advisers would be
provided training to improve pedagogical support and guidance to the
teachers. In parallel, to reduce costs of textbooks to make them more
affordable, the Ministry's texbook agency ("Librairie des Mutuelles



- 12 -
Scolaires" - LIMUSCO) would be strengthened to improve texbook development,
production and distribution. The in-service training would be equivalent to
that provided to new teachers at the Primary Teachers Colleges (ENIs). Each
teacher would undergo upgrading through an integrated program consisting of
three types of training: (a) a one-year correspondence course; (b) three
one-week seminars organized at the inspectorate level and conducted by
inspectors and pedagogical advisers; and (c) a three-month upgrading course
at one of the two ENIs.  About 1,350 teachers would be upgraded each year,
with 450 participating each quarter during the academic year in the
three-month course at the ENIs. While attending the upgrading course, the
teachers would be replaced by 450 substitute teachers. These substitute
teachers are cturrently employed on a contractual basis in a pilot program
launched under the first IDA-financed education project.
39.       The training of the 60 inspectors/pedagogical advisers to improve
on-the-job pedagogical support to teachers, will be provided on an annual
basis during the first three years of the project in a one-week seminar at
the DIFOP during which the participants would be taught the strategies for
conducting teacher training seminars. Pedagogical innovations, improved
teaching methods and use of new curricula would be part of seminar programs.
A selected number of the inspectors/pedagogical advisers will also
participate in observation trips outside the country. The in-service
training programs of both teachers and inspectors/pedagogical advisers would
be the responsibility of the Director of Fir3t Degree Education, and would be
implemented by a coordinator in charge of teacher upgrading, who would be
assisted by the inspectors, the two ENI directors, and the Correspondence
Course Section of the DIFOP.
40.       To assist the Ninistry of Education not only to meet the urgent
short-term needs for primary textbooks and reduce their cost (para 23) but
also, over the long-term, to improve the internal efficiency of education,
the project would strengthen the LIMUSCO, which would produce, adapt, procure
and distribute low-cost textbooks for the primary schools. Assistance to the
LIMUSCO would focus on (a) setting up a Textbook Production Department in
charge of writing and editing new textbooks and/or adapting existing
textbooks to the local environment, (b) strengthening the existing capacities
for purchasing textbooks, and (c) improving existing storage and distribution
capabilities. During project implementation, an initial stock of textbooks
would be set up. Future sales from this stock of textbooks would allow the
creation of a revolving fund which would serve as the base for a mechanism
that would be self-financing for the further purchase of textbooks.
41.       For the total training and upgrading programs, project funds would
finance furniture and equipment for placing about 18 pedagogical advisers at
the inspectorates; 47 manmonths of foreign fellowships; per diem and travel
costs for about 500 manyears of local training; the contractual fees of
substitute teachers; and operating costs (transport and administrative
expenses). For the textbook component, project funds would finance (a) civil
works to rehabilitate LIMUSCO's central offices and central and regional
storage facilities; (b) furniture and equipment for the central offices; (c)
36 manmonths of specialist services and 8 manmonths of fellowships; and (d)
operating expenditures. Funds for purchasing and/or producing initial stocks



- 13 -
of textbooks would also be provided. During negotiations the Government gave
assuranees that it will: (a) retain the 450 substitute teachers for the
five-year period of the project; (b) contribute to the financing of the
contractual fees for the substitute teachers on an incremental basis, paying
20% in the 1986-87 school year, 40Z in 1987-88, 60X in 1988-89 and 80% in
1989-90; and (c) hire suitably qualified substitute teachers as regular
teachers starting in the 1990-91 school year (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Lover secondary school improvement.  To upgrade the current low
quality of math and science education (para 23), the project would (a)
establish an integrated program in math and science teacher and inspector
upgrading, and (b) improve science facilities, including the provision of
basic instructional materials and equipment.
43.       The integrated program in math and science teacher and inspector
upgrading would provide training to about 1,250 teachers and 21 inspectors.
During implementation of the project, the math and science teachers would
attend annual 10-day seminars. Provided to groups of about 50/60 teachers,
the seminars would be offered about 20 times each year and would cover:
modern teaching methods, based on demonstration and practice rather than
theory; the use of instructional guides; the building of simple demonstration
materials and equipment; and techniques of linking the material taught to
students' daily lives. Further, the math and science inspectors would attend
one 10-day seminar each year. The inspectors' training program would include
the same subjects as the teachers' program so that they can keep abreast of
the training being provided to teachers in order to monitor their on-the-job
performance and provide assistance as necessary. To support teacher
upgrading, the DIFOP would continue to prepare and distribute pedagogical
guides, and develop prototypes of simple math and science equipment to be
duplicated by teachers during the training seminars.
44.       To address the problem of inadequate science facilities, project
funds would finance a construction and rehabilitation program geared
specifically to math and science teaching, which would include: (a)
conversion of 10 existing laboratories and construction of 11 laboratories
(at least two in each of the six regions) to be used primarily for teacher
training; (b) construction of a prototype workshop and expansion of the
existing laboratory at the DIFOP; (c) rehabilitat'on of one laboratory at the
Third Degree Teacher Training College at Atakpame; and (d) conversion of 262
existing classrooms in 234 lower secondary schools into science rooms. In
addition, the laboratories, workshop and science rooms would be furnished and
provided with basic instructional materials and equipment.
45.       The DIFOP would be primarily responsible for implementing project
activities covering math and science education, i.e., teacher and inspector
training, production of teacher guides and prototypes, and preparation of
equipment lists. The Division of School Construction and Maintenance would
be responsible for the related civil works. A special coordinator would have
the overall responsibility for timely execution of all project activities
related to lower secondary school improvement.



- 14 -
46.       For teacher 'taining/upgrading, including the production of teacher
guides and prototypes, he project would provide financing for furniture and
equipment; 54 manmonths of specialist services and 57 manmonths of
fellowships; per tiem and travel costs for about 238 manyears of local
training; and operating costs (transport and administrative expenses). For
improvement of physical facilities, the project would provide financing for
construction/ rehabilitation, and furniture and equipment for the facilities
detailed in paragraph 44 above.
Improving the Management of Education
47.       To improve the management of the education sector, the DGPE would
be reorganized into three divisions: the Educational Planning Division
(DPE), the School Construction and Maintenance Division, and the Project
Implementation Division. Each division would be given specific
responsibilities and accountability as indicated below. The incremental
staff requirements would be met through transfers from the School Guidance
Directorate, which is currently overstaffed with well-trained educators and
educational planners. Formal reorganization of the DGPE and the creation,
under the DGPE Director's authority, of three independent divisions, and the
appointment of the three Division Chiefs, was confirmed by the Government.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will transfer from
other departments all additional staff required for the reorganized DGPE
(Section 3.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Strengthening of educational planning.  To address the issues of
skewed budgetary allocations and financial constraints, and inefficient
capacity utilization, the project would assist the Educational Planning
Division, created under the reorganization of the DGPE, to build up its
planning and analytical capability. During the project execution period, the
Division of Educational Planning would provide four specific outputs. One
would be an analysis of educational financing, in particular of the current
budgetary allocations and expenditures; this study, to be completed by
December 31, 1986, would make proposals to decrease the per-student costs at
the third and the fourth degrees, improve cost-efficiency of the system,
reduce the fellowship budget, and provide a more equitable distribution of
funds among the different educational levels in the light of budgetary
constraints and manpower requirenents. On the basis of the study, the
Educational Planning Division would develop by December 31, 1987, a
comprehensive long-term financing plan. Further, the Division would conduct
on an ongoing basis an evaluation of the upgrading programs for teachers at
the primary level and for math and science teachers at the lower secondary
level. Finally, it would prepare during 1986-87 a school location plan.
49.       To help achieve these goals and ensure the completion of the
studies described in the above two paragraphs, the Educational Planning
Division would conduct local training programs. All of the 63 first and
second degree inspectors, appropriate division staff, and headmasters of
lower secondary schools would attend, on an annual basis, a six-day seminar
which would provide training on techniques of collecting educational
statistics, preparing school maps, conducting interviews and surveys for



- 15 -
program evaluation, and regional planning problems. Division staff would be
provided fellowships to study their respective areas and would receive
on-the-job training from specialists funded by the proposed IDA credit. The
project would finance civil works, furniture and equipment to house the
expansion of the Division; 26 manmonths of specialist services; 122 manmonths
of fellowships; travel and per diem costs of about 130 manyears of local
training; and operating expenses (transport and administrative expenses).
50.       Development of a school rehabilitation and maintenance capability.
To increase the Government's capacity to manage school construction and
maintenance, the project would strengthen the School Constnrction and
Maintenance Division to be created under the reorganization of the DGPE.  The
new Division would have three responsibilities: (a) to construct new
schools; (b) to set up a preventive maintenance urogram at all schools so
that inspectors, teachers and parents' associations would be responsible for
prevertive maintenance; and (c) to rehabilitate schools. The existing unit,
out of which the new Division would be created, currently is handling only
the first of these functions, namely the construction of new schools. The
Preventive Maintenance Program, which would be new, would (a) train six
regional supervisors and 63 inspectors of first and second degrees at
seven-day seminars each year, over a five-year period, to explain the need
for preventive maintenance and how to do it; (b) prepare maintenance mau;uals
for distribution to headmasters and inspectors; (c) provide materials for
maintenance to parents' associations, inspectors and teachers; and (d)
supervise maintenance. The Rehabilitation Program, which also would be new,
would (a) refurbish and provide minor repairs for the 262 classrooms to be
converted into science rooms (para 44); (b) provide maintenance at the two
ENIs; (c) identify rehabilitation needs through on-going surveys and
supervise the work.
51.       The project would finance civil works, furniture and equipment for
establishing the School Construction and Maintenance Division; civil works
for school rehabilitation; 8 manmouths of consultant services; 12 manmonths
of fellowships; per diem and travel costs for 14 manmonths of local training;
and operating costs (transport, administrative expenses and building
materials to parents' associations for maintenance of 1,430 classrooms, which
would represent 50% of the estimated total maintenance cost).
52.       Strengthening of project implementation.  To enhance the capability
of the Government to manage ongoing projects and prepare new ones, the
project would strengthen the Project Implementation Division to be created
under the reorganization of the DGPE (para 34). Through technical assistance
and training, the Division's administrative and accounting sections would be
strengthened. The project would assist the Project Implementation Division
to: (a) monitor and ensure timely execution of all administrative and
financial aspects of education projects; (b) create and implement a project
accounting system; and (c) prepare future education projects in cooperation
with the Division of Educational Planning. In addition to the on-the-job
training to be provided by expatriate specialists in project preparation,
accounting and management, the project would provide foreign fellowships in
educational financing and management. Moreover, the Division would conduct
one short seminar each year for five years for inspectors, section chiefs,
and other educational officials on educational planning, cost-efficiency and
the role of donor agencies. Project funds would finance civil works,
furniture and equipment for expansion of the DEPE, 6 manmonths of consultant
services, 10 manmonths of foreign fellowships and observation visits, travel



- 16 -
and per tiem costs for 10 manmonths of local training, and operating costs
(transport and administrative expenses).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
53.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$14.0 million
equivalent. The pr^Ject would be exempt from all taxes and duties. The
estimated foreign exchange component is US$6.1 million equivalent,
representing about 43% of total project cost. Cost estimates are given in
January 1985 prices.  The project would include contingency allowances for
unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the base cost for civil works,
furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for price escalation is about
15% of base cost plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies have been
applied for all categories except salaries of project staff and contractual
fees for substitute teachers, as follows: 1985, 5%; 1986, 7.5%; 1987-90, 8%.
For salaries of project staff and contractual fees for substitute teachers,
price contingencies of 0% for 1985, and 4% per annum for 1986-1990, have been
applied. Inflation rates are assumed to be equal for both foreign and local
costs because of compensatory exchange rate adjustments. The project would
be financed by IDA (US$12.4 million equivalent, or 89% of total project cost)
and the Government (US$1.6 million equivalent, or 11% of total project
costs).
Project Implementation
54.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research through the Project
Implementation Division (DEPE), which would be responsible for timely
coordination and execution of all project activities. Project design work is
at a sufficiently advanced stage to permit physical implementation to start
in July 1985. The project is expected to be completed by July 1990. To
permit time to complete final disbursements and orderly closure of project
accounts, the credit closing date is scheduled for June 30, 1991.
55.       Civil works would be procured through local competitive bidding,
except for contracts for rehabilitation valued at less than US$10,000, which
would be handled by force account and/or by inviting three local quotations.
The nature of the civil works and the large number of small buildings
scattered in remote areas would not attract overseas firms. Where possible,
equipment would be grouped into bid packages to attract bids under
international competitive bidding. Small and diverse contracts for furniture
and equipment, not to exceed US$50,000 each, would be obtained under local
competitive bidding. For very small procurement items (US$10,000 and under),
local shopping procedures would be used. Consultant services and fellowships
for training abroad (100% of which is expected to be spent outside Togo)
would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Goods manufactured
locally would be given a preference margin of up to 15% or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less. All procurement decisions whose estimated
costs exceed US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review.
For contracts valued at between US$10,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, two
conformed copies of each contract would be subject to ex-post review by IDA
before withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Special Account. For



- 17 -
contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, the Government would hold
them for IDA's random audit review.
56.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ millions)
Project Element                      Procurement Methods
(Amounts in parentheses indicate
amount of IDA participation)
Total
Project
ICB       LCB       Other     N.A.    Cost
Civil Works                    --      1.16        0.13 a!   --       1.29
(-)     (1.16)      (0.13)    (--)    (1.29)
Furniture                      --      0.27         --        --      0.27
(--)    (0.27)       ()        (-)     (0.27)
Equipment (incl.              1.61 b/  0.36 c/    0.10       --       2.07
vehicles)                  (1.61)   (0.36)      (0.10)    (--)    (2.07)
Consultant Services            --       --         1.39      --       1.39
(--)     (-)        (1.39)    (--)    (1.39)
Training Costs                 --       --         0.52 d/  2.79 e/  3.31
(^-)     (-)        (0.52)   (2.79)   (3.31)
Contractual Fees for
Substitute Teachers and        -        --          --      3.36      3.36
Salaries of                   (-)      (-)         (-)      (1.76)   (1.76)
Project Staff
Other Operating Costs f/                                     1.67     1.67
=L- -_   1.67)   _1.67Z
Total Project                 2.30     1.74        2.14      7.82    14.00
12.30)   !1.741     12=L1Q   6.22.  112.401.
=2___    =__=4}     ----    {__)-- ---- ---
a/   For small civil works contracts (some performed by force account) for less
than US$10,000 and not to exceed an aggregate of US$150,000.
b/   Includes equipment for science rooms and laboratories.
c/ Office supplies and equipment in bid packages of less than US$50,000 to
be procured locally.
d/   Fellowships for training abroad.
e/   Local and on-the-job training.
f/   Includes incremental vehicle maintenianc,e costs, office supplies, and
indemnities.



- 18 -
Disbursements
57.       The proposed IDA credit of US$12.4 million equivalent is expected
to be disbursed by June 30, 1991. The credit vould finance 100% of civil
works, furniture, equipment, consultant services, training costs and
operating costs. Contractual fees for substitute teachers would be disbursed
on a declining basis: 100% up to June 30, 1986; 80% up to June 30, 1987; 60%
up to June 1988; 40% up to June 1989; and 20% up to June 1990.
Recurrent Cost Implications
58.       The incremeni:al recurrent cost to the Government as a result of the
project would be generated mainly by expenditures for the 450 substitute
teachers, who would replace the teachers attending the upgrading course
(para 38). The cost of other project staff also to be borne by the
Government would not be incremental due to transfers from other services.
The total Government contribution to the project would represent about 5%
(including contingencies) of the 1982-83 Ministry of National Education
budget. The Government would undertake to pay the contractual fees for the
substitute teachers on an incremental basis (para 41), starting in school
year 1986/87 and reaching full funding by school year 1990-91. Since the
number of new teachers needed to compensate for normal attrition in the
teaching force is about 350 per annum, the hiring of 450 teachers over the
five-year period of the project (90 teachers/year) would not result in an
increase in the public sector wage bill. It is expected that sales of
textbooks would suffice to cover replenishment, including distribution and
losses. Therefore, no incremental recurrent cost would be generated by the
textbook component.
Special Account
59.       An IDA revolving fund of US$500,000 equivalent will be established
to cover about three months of project expenditures. A Special Account would
be opened in a commercial bank by the Government for this fund. The Special
Account would be replenished on the basis of Government withdrawal requests.
Reimbursements would be aggregated into applications of not less than
US$20,000 equivalent for submission to IDA. The Special Account would be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Government would
be responsible for reimbursing the Special Accoint for any expenditures not
acceptable to IDA.  All disbursements from the IDA Credit would be fully
documented except those which would be reimbursed against certified
statements of expenditures (which would comprise disbursements for project
expenditures for civil works, goods and services with a value below US$10,000
equivalent, and other operational costs, from the Special Account), in which
case documentation would not be submitted to IDA, but retained at the Project
Implementation Division for review by IDA and project auditors.



- 19 -
Reporting and Auditing
60.       The Project Implementation Division (DEPE) would maintain separate
accounts for the IDA Credit and for the Government's counterpart financing.
These accounts would be further separated into expenditures incurred by: the
Primary School Improvement Component; the School Construction and Maintenance
Division; and the Project Implementation Division. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that: (a) the project and special accounts and
statements of expenditure will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; (b) the Government will submit the accounts and the
auditors' reports to IDA within six months of the end of the Government's
fiscal year; and (c) the auditors' reports will be of such scope and in such
detail as IDA might reasonably request. As in the First Education Project,
audit fees would be financed by the IDA credit. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the DEPE will submit (a) semi-annual reports
to IDA on project implementation and expenditures; and (b) a final report on
the implementation experience and project outcomes within six months of the
credit closing date.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.       The main benefit of the project would be to improve educational
quality and strengthen the efficiency of sectoral management. During the
project execution period, the professional skills of all primary and lower
secondary math and science teachers would be upgraded; inspectors and
pedagogical advisers would be trained to provide support to teachers; and
physical facilities, in terms of classrooms and equipment for math and
science teaching, would be improved. Further, through institutional
development the project would provide the sector with the capacity to carry
out integrated sectoral planning, to optimize the use of physical and
teaching resources, to establish a system of school maintenance to be handled
by local communities, and to plan and implement investment programs.
62.       The project has three major risks.  The first concerns the
Government's financial constraints. To address this problem, the project is
designed to minimize recurrent costs and to ensure the gradual entry of the
substitute teachers into the Government's budgetary allocations by phasing
the Government's contribution to incremental recurrent costs in annual
increments of 20%. The second risk concerns the ability of the Government to
implement the project in a timely manner. To minimize this risk, the project
includes elements to strengthen the organizational units responsible for
educational planning, administration and project implementation through
organizational upgrading, technical assistance and training, which would
continue the process of institution building begun under the First Education
Project. The third risk is that the quality improvement objectives of the
project may be endangered if students are unable to purchase textbooks
because of shortages or excessive prices. To minimize this risk, the project
includes a component aiming at increasing the availability of textbooks at
reduced cost.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Togo
and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
64.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in Section III of Annex III to this report.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 4, 1985



-21 -                                         ANNEX I
T A    Lr E  3A                               (Page  1 of  5)
TMCO                   - SOCIAL IMD CzTO   DATA suaT
TM                                   REFERENC  GRoUPS (WrICITED AVRAGes) 
MUST                     (MST SCNT ESTIMATE) lb
RCNT           LOW INCOS AFRICA          MIDDLE INCUS
196p/b     i97@Lk KSTIUATLkb        SOUTH or SABtA        AFRICA S. OF SAHAR
A     OUSAuN SQ. m)
TOTJIL                                56.8        56.8     56.8
AGRIWCLTURAL                          1i.5       16.1      16.2
CW FM  CAIT (CUSS)                       70.0      150.0    340.0                249.1                   1112.9
mayT WDUmTI M aM  CPT
(KILOCRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         15.0       43.0    127.0                 62.8                    529.0
I ~  ~    ~     uraa -I   ma muwxSDn      sa
POPULATIOK.MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     1506.0      2020.0   2754.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOrAL)          9.8       13.1      21.2                19.2                     29.7
POPULATXOK PROECTIONS
POPUIATION IN YEAt 2000 (MILL)                            4.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             16.7
POPULATION IWNENTUR                                       2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                         26.5       35.6      46.9                32.5                     55.8
PER SQ. KtM. AGRI. LAND            131.2      1Z5.8    164.0                119.2                    111.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTR  CZ)
D-14 uS                            44.0       45.3      46.5                45.6                     45.4
15-6  TiS                           53.4       52.0      50.6                51.5                     51.7
b5 AND ABOV                          2.6        2.7       2.7                 2.9                      2.9
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                2.2         2.9      2.6                 2.8                      2.8
tIESW                                5.2         5.9      6.6                 6.2                      S.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE trFR 7OUS)           50.8        5D.1     49.4                48.6                     47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          23.1        19.8     19.0                17.7                     15.2
GROSS RERODUCTION RATE                 3.3         3.3      3.2                 3.2                      3.2
FAMiLY PLANNINC
ACCEPrORS, ANNUAL (IHW6S)
USERS (:. OF HARRIED WOHEN)
FMD AIID IMTION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         99.0       102.0     89.0                85.8                     91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIIRPJIENTS)      97.0       95.0      B3.0                86.4                     98.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            46.0       46.0      41.0                49.9                     56.7
OF 66ICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.0        12.0     12.0 /c             18.3                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           55.0        38.0     25.0                23.8                     18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT SITAT  (TEARS)       41.0       41.5      47.3                48.4                     51.7
INSFAT lURT. RATE (PER THOUS)        201.0      164.0    122.0                117.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                 *-        17.0     16.0 Id             21.8                     35.6
URBAN                                 ..                 £g-0 id             61.5                     54.1
RURAL                                  ,         5.0     10.0 t;             14.2                     27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        1.0      15.0 /d             32.0
URA                                   . N.      4.0      36.0 id             69.2
RURAL                                 ,,        1.0      l2.0 /              24.8
POPULATION PER PIYSICIA            47060.0    28860.0  18100.0 le           27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             5340.0 /f  4310.0   1430.0 rU            3396.2                   2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              780.0       670.0 /A  750.0 /e          1069.0                    986.9
URBAN                              210.0 tf   160.0    250.0 rc             395.2                    368.7
RURAL                             1030.0 if  1500.0   1190.0 1W            3094.0                   4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             .-        24.3
S31=
AVERAGE SIZE OF bDUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 *          5.8
LnAS                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. DF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URbAS                                 ..          ..       ..                  ..                       .-
RURAL                                 .           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 .            --
UJU                                   ..          ..       .
RURAL                                 ..          ..



- 22- -NNI
T A 8 L C 3A                                  (Page  2  of  5)
TOCO                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKIRT
TOGO                                RiSFRINCE GROUPS (EIZNHTID AVISG) La
MOsr                     CMOST SCNT ESTIMATE) b
1960/b     1       RCC3NT,E       LOUW IDCO   AFRICA      KIDDLE SOFA
ADJUSTED ENROLL"CNT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                    44.0        69.0    111.0                69.2                     91.0
MALE                     63.0        95.0    135.0               78.8                      90.5
FEHALE                   24.0       43.0      87.0               57.6                      73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    2.0         7.0      31.0              .13.1                     17.4
MALE                      4.0        11.0     46.0               17.6                      23.7
FEMALE                    1.0        3.0      16.0                8.3                      14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)          10.1         9.6       5.3                7.2                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER PATIO
PRDIMARY                           60.0        58.0      52.0               46.1                     38.6
SECONDARY                            ..        25.0      40.0 rc            25.9                     24.3
%DULT LITERACY RATE (tJ               9.7 /f    15.9       18.0 lb            44.3                     35.6
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           1.9 /i      3.6       ..                 3.8                     20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          3.5        19.8    213.3                41.9                    100.8
TV RECE1VERS/THOUSAND POP              ..          ..       3.9                2.0                     18.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTERESrT) CIRCUIATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             1.3         6.4       2.8 Is             5.4                     17.2
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       0.2 '1       *-       1.0 /d             1.4                      0.3
LURn  WU:E
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           690.0       885.0   1101.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.2        41.3      41.3               36.5                     33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0        73.0      67.0               77.6                     57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.0        11.0      15.0                9.8                     17.4
PARTICIPArTION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              45.8        43.8      40.0               41.0                     36.3
HALE                                56.8       52.3      48.9               52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                             35.3        35.6      31.8               30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0         1.1       1.2                1.2                      1.4
INCO  DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
HIGNEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
PVna      TAGT GROPS
ESTIMTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..    243.0 /b            168.3                    525.3
RURAL                                ..          ..    118.0 I.             90.8                    249.0
T1MAXrtU E.AILVL  tfJVbLAh ASInc
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                   121.0 lh           107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                ..          ..    121.0 rF             65.0                    186.0
ESTIMTED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBN                                 ..          ..      42.0 /h            34.7
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..               65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
P O T E S
/a  rhe group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic  eans. Coverage of countries mong the
indicators depends on availebi'ity of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, -Dlta for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for Host Recent Estimate- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /c 1979; /f 1962; /j Covernment hospital establishments; /h 1978; /i 1964; /t 1957.
JUNE, 1984



- 23 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
summoiL                                                              ~~~~~~~(Page 3 of*-
latcs,  tIt haSh lb. dc   Ia.e  Ic  testet -dankipI Ic0dla   i 0alt- tatbamufoIIe.o    a.b.a   bcdtm   eaelahlee   .st       ecetSell
eceel   cca   cise  tP. rb  tmslet    d.hl4tatIcI  cad ccanopi.le a     byli.em    cmIs l...ilamadc.lbdl..   e.tla.s.m.
I_.1..Itmte   ,cemed,tlctmscd.a Flceclrt. -ceit  bt., dttlea.-.  b.-.. .-..t-c
.abt-s  t.casa  ce,ct 'm  aeb  Us.aatt acctca.  gese .1. doldIl   tc  ml sternaI. tdMddebP          I. - .!   -PW .  ec -..   tI cc'h. clcrlc
~~~lmc.                                                                                                         be estabel -l ercsa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ". .    I.c,
ccescr.. c.seacWb.1rm.t.LIc."  act.                                                   lltells inatcec mac5           lloo.  .eIcc  ca- esceet Iea Pt
115  li..                                                jjjJje    mtcjJJe~q    Peelc 5c dtedd b  ablSc  rsetlle
ieee ccpa5 pseetlc.. mcab.l ecU blC.t., celdees - as II. ItUse  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  eclalI I. `acstlpcel.e."
jewcc tsTj5     -  il le  cels.telrtc   c P.eeacoceic   PIlis1.cesl   Sm elte cad petec.P  ccseclda   a dllt.i bscpllal ccld
etc   .e.iisa   c saaaeea.-sbc  -   lat   l Smb etietta-iSee,ecsltm   c   cte. taessslsceaestshtatastoo  P-aa.aI a at8icdl
Iet_ lepee. cat  ca  1st...h  ttccc.ielte    hclbatltmtaecs  P-ecatdt  cet-mlee pcltc .                                                                               Ia.dt
cc.  s  -laldcds  4tcttecrssa  ieee.lmnlaa  ois  tel
cad  icablas  lsccmesesI  5 M  -cgtc ciI   saiaccPee scrsmt, cled                      lcic    ltLa-   es    .1 -les  .rtlst.
less,. cad l~~~l let..                                       ihujalelwJ.rArnItalfrd - C.ccl .abee ci samstlscc 5eaUS.[        clm.baetam_ dt.~W
Ycte                 Ptacsasc a- a                                                                                                                a a-'e.
...-Ootea leccee                                                                         jeJ U,asit.,._4    fl        a           e-a                ejcpeeci. elabi
tinecc   .¶eaaa -  eercse rseatt 5. pecscla c.1 le-e .- Wi.a   csepae    mctcb's  a   ct   rettraalit
pasa.lb  ce.ace   la lestIt   sac etc  betIb.   al                                  c  csl m         .       ml- acei  lactIsc rtlce   tl. ed  
rtcaclst e.rt.es S. e  -ssae   s m  c  ala   iadc aba. ala                     !il2D
-    Ia .  Iatet  Pat-- ces-patic  naZe fI.-&    ~  IREi 7L    hL                                 As -     ale. sccecc.c  mc
ca  acc   c b   aebec. adRlaet  teacec   I  c'sea.c.. eIII=tbe                    acemel.. cce    l             3aac   .dc ...c ca.tlc.a  sa1,c acca -d -dcr-.)ce
tet   c.lte. Tetc mete  .stcc.   alm  ca   a  celcmaacceea  atac.ct.  as .tde_ae s,telt  meica  ccc
frtt.et.eetaeas - cmtIa  cad-mtCe c.      -,aecc  Pratc [agee                         Cras.- C"d..  emclc,a  ectc   ac                   tas ease    ic
-aa.,_ Se e.sa   alraaetstiette  s  ae   sge.  baecc   ael -Ud                                                 t-  a_   -_acee    .1.c  atactdsc e_c 
clece S.cta    S-ptacmIcI.rmci.  cb   cet  glee                                   tetc      t   Pslccl  sees*-cb.  seeaala   cec
sactaaemii.ebt aItIIm   Ic-e  a,ac.cattc-lnes ± -cic.mact                                             d- c   U.caam  ci  cledte  tele t-
ceccet  act, disc.                                                         essmi-daccrblee.Icec-mcdee PPWdds a.-cy W    Ice1_ eadce lo tealIcI
etc; eta,. tale cr   Ftel at..-d                                                                                                                      "td..
P.e.lcate Icebace  eparacl - saI   - Stc   ece        c .4 imc _tt-                   alltmcmy anIc..
set eeccecaIc  1-515 ma-I.  ca5.a-;.acs.ec.l.r  Ielebccsiaaceaaat-  teeS.acIrescclga -P                                                               l
rmal-lcetratbee trr. a-  ab. -ccaes cccb Is.cmtebc                     ee.es_as  ac  `..t aal a"..eacdi   alaascred
eartcla  ar  eitsc, ld-l.     d  11-fl.    a     lW   1       U                    ccit.ec   tae.I   sli.clt   ac    cegcrtca   s
-aaeimte;It,       e,  .  1Wat.                                                     cecl1c-lbedlacli
Ubodelea0e; ena "tUmn  .a t(5 Ia.                                                      "tart ImaIl. ec        f ebeatad  ecclec ; sIcId. calacmala TVi do-lc
be eder cc  esc- Latic  ate.. 't. latt. ca  _.o.11   itS                       ta.1ccmeee- c ( c-i am Lea, a. rscaa.eta  .   a-         -Iceicra. d
atela-r.rs    eec  acicr esce  a   sac   aleestt                                        tc   bc Ct aecdm.. car Ceetas-r. Wccc   tccc eo          r .11.
Pallerte.t-a  -IbIclseaca  m  celadma   -tmeaecg .lceacd..ba  cale..-                                                    1.._-
U-I: aob.  M.  SW ~      ~        ~        ~       ~       aettccc  cicc.brllI. maceeteccs   s
mccl  reeea  l 11aca  -cmdmtc.erdclPe_m'iL. - cc  isc                            actetsraecrcip,- s             tae  m  cne.  cacea-blI    .c
See1.,                                                                            eceilrtccttt  -"Ie as.U::    F.arae -tacly.  atem  iccL te.  -I  crIrap -e
~r'~tsmcpae ,a ricaase  acrec  ci  .sctecc.ea  - Is.l I..          cttelelce _ ceaccdcctct    c   att    le.   Ise-  las.c
acdl ccseaa-t ccIcc eeec  ccl.lte ea.p  er  pta  me           pastc.  c    as.   cadm-I  mccctat  -tal. cca.r .e
CaeU..t..a...     rae icc- -1 eh.Cceted.5eactUcatFeatacbeI                                                         1.   c.te.  e.  I  c i                 aea
c-'cet  la tel recees. ceItectsb  cs  acta  cemt.                                          cct.
,Idacaacacctrl'ee che   1- b  md                     V-aie.   mc..                      clrlels?  c
ctacd   st5cet  lea   asca   itl rUl   S  Igees cIce  cmc-    v.ea.aa.caar-c   aettccc   c



- 24 -                                 ANNEX I
(Page 4 of 5)
EcUONC riS2cATOR
CIOSS NaT?OWA  roUL   1961
!!L"W3              A.    ~     nrn.L  s oo. m.!S  (S. c url   pS.e)
Gn at _arket prices                             .              96.2              10.
GDP at market wices                         35*6.             100.0              11.1
GCsce  dom.stic IStmts                      250.9              23.3               6.7
Gross dometIc savenp                        135.1              13.2               4.
Current *eeo: balamca                      -173.1             -19.5               -
Exports (C *  S)          '.                2221              25.1               23.7
goru  (C G  Ws)                             360.1             40.7               10.4
OUTPST. LABOR FORa AMIII ?ODUCT2T T1 290
Value .d444          Labor tom            Value .4d.d4 RE V
0S8 miLion      I    Thoumad         1         _SS     2 oM
Agriculture                               236.4       26.1    750         79.0       317.9       33.0
!ndustrY. cousetuccu 4 pubU.c vorks       186.8       20.4     24          2.0    7.783.3      60.
Goveuat                                   102.4       11.2       9         4.1    2,625.6       22.3
Corce and tramupon                        306.5       33.6      67         7.0    4,604.5       479.6
Otber sevLce                               77.8        8.5      70         6.9    1,111.4       120.9
GOP at faetor costs                 913.9     100.0    930         100.0      962.0
-7A bulbst             of CUP
1975     1951         1975    LI6
Revenue                                32.9      63.0         24.9   264
ax lreceipte                          31.4     53.0         U37 
Other                                 1.5      10.0          1.2    4.2
meindtu,ts                             35.0      74.6         26.5   31.0
Curret budget                        2.6       67.1         17.1   26.0
Twmstmat budtgt                       9.1       7.4         ;.9    3.1
Other                                 3.3       -            2.S    -
Specil  acoutU                          0.3       -            0.2    -
Anne" budsesc                           0.3      -0.5          0.2   -0.2
Oerall' deficits                       -2.7    -12.1          -2.0    -.0
EarMI iteat
CU ecurren: price                   132.3    240.0                  -
tMUT, Crr   ANID PRI'                  1973   1974   1373   1976   19"    1978   1979   1960   191
(BLIUOD SA-F oMEMudng-i PIRoM d
Emy a"d quest sonoy                    15.9   30.3   28.2   41. - 4.0  6U.9   69.:   72.5  101.5
Bank credit to public -ector           -1.9   -2.5    1.4    1.2    1.8    6.2    6.6    4.5   15.4
Bank credit to private sactc_          13.3   16.3   24.6   32.2    6.2   51.0   57.1    6.7   61.9
(Pereuaeo  Sein m_r) 
2msey a  qusi mmy as : of CGO          17.5   22.6   21.3   27.3   25.1   32.4   32.6   32.5   42.3
Conssmer price index (13  t00)1-       75.1   84.7  100.0  111.6  136.7  137.3  147.6  165.9  200.0
Awmal perceag  chag in
Conaimr price Ludes                   -      12.7   18.0   11.6   22.4    0.4    7.5  '12.4   20.6
Bank credit to vablic. ecto           -    -31.5      -    -14.3   50.0  24.4    6.4  -31.8  242.2
Baok credit to privat esoco           -      22.5   51.3   29.?  327.3   15.4   12.0   13.3   -4.3
L/  1al avserge



- 25 -
ANNEX  1
TRAE  PAnTIS AM CAPITAL nLowJ                        (Page  5 of 5)
IALaAiCE o0 PA :trt                         1973      1976      1977      1978     1979      1910      1981
Exporta (Ge UhJS)                          141.2    138.9    19S.1    257.5    230.9    360.2    222.1
I3porto (C + W)                           -242.9   -212.3   -300.4   -319.9   -524.3   -529.9   -360.1
Amortce sp (deIcit  -)                    -101.7    -33.6   -103.3   -262.4   -273.9   -169.7   -131.0
lnt-r set pa oto (r-t)                                    -1.9      -3.3      -5.7    -24.3    -29.0    -51.2        49.6
Woriker' rctttancA                          3.3 t     5.        3.3       5.3      7.1       7.1       3.5
Oeh.r facto: paymUtE (met)                 -14.0      -6.4    -13.0    -13.2    -23.8    -38.0    -13.4
oCht frae Ms     srs                        IJ..7     16.7      20.3      22.1      28.6     28.6      22.2
lalasce on currat acanJot                  -95.6    -43.2    -96.4   -272.3   -290.9   -223.2   -173.
Diract foreign Inwuinmt          ~4.8       6.3       8.1      3.5      10.3       --
- et NcK  bmorrluIg                         503       536      113.8    246.0    290.0    201.9    143.9
Capital pasts                               19.1      15.0      13.0      25.7      26.2     49.3      43.9
Other capital (usc)                         14.0    -16.7    -32.5         4.0    -31.4       36.0    111.9
Otber Items, u.s.i                           13.4    -15.0    -31.7        4.4    -33.3    _2.7    -37.3
Chbn  ±3 res*rvs (Inaue *-)                 -8.2      -2.0      25.6    -L6.4       29.0      39.3     89.3
Not rexervoo (erd ?er) 1/                   38.8       38.1     33.7      50.4      2J.8      51.4    121.4
?mtroL import. ag S total nareb. L apnrt     -.        -         9.0      10.2      11.9     19.2      18.6
PtroL exports as   t otal r-rcb. * porto     -         -         -        12.0     21.4      23.7       5.1
l Net forefgmi aset of Cho Central huh
t,ERCuAMMISE E0Rom  (averase. 1975-80. r.cordsd)          LU 
Phoephets                                             97.1           41.7
Cocoa beas                                            40.5           17.1
Coffee                                                23.3           10.0
All otber cainodStle                                   1.9           30.9
Total                                     232.8          100.0
EMUMWL MUT. December 31. 1981
Public debt (disburaed) 1=d. guatned                 909.1
Km   tarast    p divat debt                            -
TotaL outandAng and dbu                              909.1
0EA2ME RATES (CPA? per I35)
SENT SERVC  RATIO FOR 1981 2                         TOr             Period a                End of Der±Od
1973                223                    230
1974                241                   222
%ublic debt. lal, guaranted 31            35.7       1975                 214                   224
mon-guarantesd privte debt                 -         1976                 239                   21
Total outstanding and disbursed            -         1977                 216                   235
1978                226                    zo9
1979                213                   201
:1 Debt servce as percet:  of X (G  IFS)             1980                 211                   226
3/ After debt reached-If                             1981                271                    Z86
s/ Firse half                                        1982                 306 4r                329 Sl
5T As of Jim 1962
DRDtlDA LnM3I, Decmeber 31, 1984 (US$ million)
MNRD 61 
Outstandlug and diebureed                            52.9              209.49
;Undi bursd                                                             99.56
Ousctanding Inluding uisburned                       52.9               209.73
'5 S53.0 million of uhich 33.5 S il1o  CMMAO loa tr, Togo and S/.9-5 millIo  loan to CMMO -4th the guarante of
Ghana. Ivory Coast an Togo.



-26-
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 2)
Ststa  of Ebnk Grwp Operations in TOGO
A. Statuient of fY Credits (as of September 30, 1984)
MS mifllioi 
Amomt (s    e ts)
Credit No.    Year   Borrower      rsk                                A        Uudisbmred
Six credits and one lam fully disbunsd                        3.50 49.35            -
810-T        1918   Togo         Feeder Ro9s                  -    5ao            0.92
93D-M        1919   Togo         Tedmical Assistmnce          -    2.20           0.48
945-Mo       1979   TogD          oos/Coffee Developt II   -   14.(D              9.93
1018-T        1919   Togo        First Bducation               -   11.O0           3.51
1139-4a       1981   Too         Fxwth Eiema                   -   2D.OD           9.69
1169-TO       19B1   Togo        Pbnspbate Rineezrirg          -    5.70           4.01
119>0-        198   lOgD         Powerf     eeriM and Tf 2/   -    1.98            0.53
izi0oTo       l9     Togo        Tedmioal Assistanoe II        -    3.50           2.18
1302-M        195    Togo         Secod Thm- Dav. Cotn Areas -   23.5)            21-72
1326-TM       193   Tbgo         Rest1rturing Project C)I      -    5.70           5.64
1354-T        1995   TOgo         i1wter SiqppJy               -   12.00          11.2I
1365-TO       1 93   Tgog         Strx:tts Adjzstnent          -   20.0)           326
FS5-         I 9%    Togo        2t0ilUmazt.                  -   20.0)           11.01
1508-TO 3/  1984   Togo          NangbetProject                    15.00          15.00
Total                                       209.73          99.56
Of *ach has been repad                  0.75- 0.24
Total no oatstaxling                           2.75  209.49
Amomt sold
Of ich has ben    aid           .                -     -
Total Now Held b.y Bm
ard IDA                                        2.75  209.49
Total Undizhursed                                      99.56        99.5b
1/ Prior to mmdwige adjust.
2/ Beming with Credit 1139-To, credits have been dnaminated in Special Drving Rights.
The dollar  nmts in 1hese colums represent the dollar equivalents at the tim
of credit negotiatioms for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalts as of September 30,
1964, for the =niabursed Bonts.
3/ Not yet effective



- 27 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. Statment of rV* lmn CuW-rntee tY GhBm, Ivory ODa3t and TORO       us$ Mllion
Iam or                                                          bmt (lees cmeLlatiwis)
Credit No.    Yepir - lbrrower    Ppose                      hrc   IDll             enibi'd
1295-VWP      1976   CDIW        RegLiul Clirnr             49.5
Papaid                     8.69
N ovo.at.uirzig            40.1
C. Statuet of Reonal hrlk Loom and Credits to
Benin, Ivory Coast. Niger, Senegal. Toeo,3Burkina Faso
momt (iess aw      ns)
credit No.    Year   Borrower      e                           BNk    IDA    Uidishnsed
969-WF       190       D meojct Preu             m Credit    -          3.0           20
1 / Prior to ex-sige adjtmtomt.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEKENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  First Bank Mission to consider the project:  Septe-ber 1982
(b) Agency which prepared the Project: Government with assistance from
UNESCO/Bank Cooperative Program
(c) Date of deparature of appraisal mission: March 1984
(d) Date of negotiations: February 1985
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1985
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions:
NONE
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a)  (i)  retain the 450 substitute teachers for the life of the project
(para. 41);
(ii) contribute to the financing of their salaries on an incremental
basis, paying 20% in the 1986-87 shcool year. 40% in 1987-88. 60%
in 1988-89, and 80% in 1989-90 (para. 41);
(iii) hire the substitute teachers as regular teachers starting in the
1990-91 school years (para. 41);
(b) transfer from other departments all additional Togolese staff required
for reorganized DGPE (para. 47);



IBRD  18680
'    t I*                 BURKINA                 MAURI'ThtANIA  I
.,1.      P ,. _ . _~~~~~~~oad~.4a (                  ^e^^_.M& )ttGA&I'
.   tz   9  ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNIAfr
OPaOufl 5                            . lo  ouj   *l  ieUNNr. 
j COAl?
1.\                                                  A N N A. j
90~~~~~~  ~ ~     ~         ~             (~~~and-
SonIol.        }             -
C-. iv .-,
|                                   5                     i. ~           ~ ~~~~ .5      Bd.i
_.b   <                 .~~~~~~~~canb
z
TOGO                            oubLu                            I
EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT                                             K 1
PROJECT/                                            I
EDUCATIONAL~~~~~~.1 IMPROEMEN                                             I <E
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                     r                         juJ
DE L'EDUCATION
Err   f  rcVJ.clf ....... : SS"'UatU   |               ,    _
COLEWMWLEP fl ,"Et"I'FUS
DIrItTOC.&I `)of EC1CaX0O%AL FsnaC"
A AND ?E.C..E' rAA,N,G Osr-                           A             A
'rFCr-nrrsr~.I,Vs.UJO&rvAv-f,,,    )    P   L   A     IT      A   U
Of I AC e0Af Dr L A Af Cwf r.f rf DA..C.suf 'D,'I O
E    -   '.  V   '  -f s_       :       :-_   .r .     
P (
.cr _                                                                       a :
* I'.                             D.'.r.  5D                                      1
,  _  .0   -   '. .;*f a? .  
i~~~~~~~~~~~W v- ;t~.a- ': ,.''r  
_._:-t.:.v....... -C.   _.<............-:-!',   
e > _Pcl~~~~..me@  i    a.^
_., - _ _ ,_ -At /-,
_ o _               |   Mj R I/T]I M  E ECEMBR 196



