Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H414 -TP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Youth Development Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 18, 2008 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H414-TP 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 18, 2008, entered into between DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
2
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Recipient has adopted a Project Operation Manual, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association.  
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Palacio do Governo 
Edificio 5, 1. Andar 
Dili,  
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
 
Facsimile: 
670-331-2467 
 
E-mail: 
jabilio@mof.gov.tl
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
3
AGREED at, Dili, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
By: /s/ Emilia Pires 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Nigel Roberts 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to promote youth 
empowerment and their inclusion in development by expanding the capacities of, and 
opportunities for, youth groups to initiate and participate in community and local 
development initiatives. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
PART A: 
 
OPERATIONALIZATION OF THE NATIONAL YOUTH 
POLICY 
1.
 
Institutional Strengthening  
 
(a) Strengthening of the capacity of the SSYS to develop, implement and 
coordinate policy and programs identified in the National Youth Policy, 
including the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical 
assistance to: (i) carry out a series of capacity building activities; (ii) conduct an 
annual progress report of its capacity development program; and (iii) undertake 
an annual expenditure review of the Recipient’s budget execution for programs 
for youth.  
 
(b) Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical assistance 
for the establishment of a unit within SSYS to manage and administer the NYF, 
including the design and implementation of guidelines and mechanisms to 
administer and monitor the NYF, technical assistance, office refurbishment, 
dissemination of information about the NYF, and outreach and capacity building. 
 
2.
 
Youth Centers Strengthening 
 
Strengthening of the capacity of the SSYS to work with, and coordinate the 
activities of, youth centers and youth associations, including capacity building for 
the staff and management of select youth centers and youth associations.   
 
PART B:  YOUTH IN LOCAL DEVELOPMENT 
1. 
Youth Grants
 
Establishment, operation and administration of a fund to: (a) assist the youth at 
the village level to identify, prioritize, and to carry out Sub-projects including, 
inter 
alia, 
 
 
livelihood 
activities; 
(b) 
rehabilitation 
of 
youth 
centers;                    
(c) organization of social events; (d) construction of small infrastructure; and     
(e) life-skills training.
 
Page  7
5
2.
 
Youth Facilitators and Capacity Building 
 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
implementation of Sub-projects, focusing on training of a corps of youth 
facilitators, dissemination of information about the Project, organization of youth 
consultation meetings, and technical assistance for capacity building of youth 
programs implementation teams.  
 
3.
 
Program Implementation and Technical Support 
 
Enhancing the implementation capacity of the MSATM
’s existing Project 
Management Unit for Local Development Program, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and equipment, carrying out of training, and for 
undertaking communication activities.  
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) adopt a Project Operational Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; (b) carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Project Operation Manual; and (c) not amend, abrogate, suspend, or 
waive any provision of said Project Operation Manual without the prior 
concurrence of the Association.   
 
2. 
In order to provide Project oversight, the Recipient shall establish and maintain, 
until the completion of the Project, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) 
comprising of the Minister of MSA, the Secretary of the SSYS, a representative 
of MED, and  a civil society representative. The Minister of MSATM and 
Secretary of the SSYS shall co-chair the PSC, which shall meet semi-annually 
and shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (a) overseeing the Technical Working 
Group; (b) facilitating the coordination of the various agencies and institutions 
involved in the Project; (c) reviewing progress reports; and (d) endorsing annual 
work programs.   
 
3. 
The Recipient shall appoint a TWG as the technical focal point for Project 
implementation.  Said TWG shall include lead representatives from MSATM and 
SSYS and the heads of finance from both MSATM and SSYS, and shall be 
responsible for: (i) the coordination between MSATM and SSYS on finance and 
procurement matters; (ii) the coordination among other institutions involved in 
the Project, including contractors involved in its implementation; and (iii) liaising 
with the Association.  
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause: (i) SSYS to carry out Part A of the Project; and         
(ii) MSATM to carry out Part B of the Project.  
 
B. Block 
Grants 
 
1. 
In the carrying out of Part B1 of the Project, the Recipient shall cause MSATM 
to make Block-grants to respective Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility 
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association, and under a Block-grant 
Agreement which shall include, inter alia, provisions that:  
 
(a)  
the Block-grant shall be denominated in Dollars; and  
 
Page  9
7
(b)  
the Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Association, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Block-grant, or  
declare to be immediately due and payable  all or any part of the amount 
of the Block-
grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure to 
perform any of its obligations under the Block-grant Agreement; and (ii) 
require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
grant proceeds other than the Recipient; (B) provide, promptly as needed, 
the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and 
services to be financed out of the Block-grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; (D) maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress of the Sub-project 
and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (I) maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (II) at the Association’s or 
the Recipient’s request, have such financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and 
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the 
Association; (F) enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the 
Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and 
(G) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such 
information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each Block-grant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive any 
Block–grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C.
 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  10
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The 
performance 
indicators 
referred 
to 
above 
in 
sub-paragraph             
(a) consist of the following: (i) percentage change in youth from targeted 
communities who feel that there are more opportunities for youth 
participation; (ii) percentage change in youth from targeted communities 
who participate in community development activities in urban and rural 
areas; and (iii) improved performance of the SSYS. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a Financial Management 
System in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  11
9
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding subject to the provisions specified in 
Annex to this Schedule  
(b)  
Shopping  
(c)        Procurement through UN Agencies 
(d)        Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.                      
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  12
10
Procurement Method 
 
(a)        Selection under a Fixed Budget
 
(b)        Least Cost Selection 
(c)   
Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications  
(d)   
Single Source Selection 
(e)   
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
E. 
Prior Review of TORs 
 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph D above, the Association may, on a 
selective basis, and as identified in the Procurement Plan, review the terms of 
reference of Individual Consultants. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  13
11
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Block-grants for Sub-projects 
      670,000 
  100% 
(2)   Goods and works, 
Consultan
ts’ services, training, 
studies, workshops, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
630,000 
  100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,300,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 160,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2008, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Page  14
12
ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
1. 
The following provisions shall apply in respect of contracts for goods and works 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and procured according to National 
Competitive Bidding procedures (“NCB”). 
 
2. Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Association’s 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the 
Association in May 2004 and revised in October 2006; accordingly, no bidder or potential 
bidder should be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Association for reasons 
other than the ones provided by Section I of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Bidders 
participation
(a) 
No eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder or origin of 
goods shall apply; therefore, foreign bidders shall be allowed to 
participate in NCB without restriction.  
 
(b) 
No limitations shall be imposed on any bidder as to the number of 
tenders in which may participate during a given period of time. 
 
(c) 
Prior registration, obtaining a license or an agreement shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures. 
 
4. 
Advertising, Time for Bid Preparation
Potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which should not 
be less than thirty (30) days, except for commodities and small goods contracts. 
 
5. 
Standard Bidding Documents
Standard Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Association, should be used. 
 
6. Bid 
Security
Bid security shall not be required for all procurement and shall be capped to a 
reasonable percentage of the amount of the contract in order not to hinder competition; 
when required, it shall be in the form of a bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
Page  15
13
7. 
Qualification Criteria and Evaluation Criteria
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and all 
criteria so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a 
bidder is qualified.  The evaluation of the bidder’s qualifications should be conducted 
separately from the technical and commercial evaluation of the bid.  
 
8. 
Bid Opening, Evaluation and Award of Contract
Bids shall be opened immediately after the stipulated deadline for submission of 
bids.  Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to 
the bidders unopened.  
 
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that 
shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in 
monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; Merit points shall 
not be used in bid evaluation. 
 
(b) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers 
the lowest evaluated price and no negotiations shall be permitted. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the 
employer’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
9. Preferences
No domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and for domestically 
manufactured goods. 
 
10. 
Rejection of all bids and re-bidding
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Association’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
11. 
Publication of the Award of Contract
Publication of the contract award should include: (a) name of each bidder who 
submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of 
each bid; (d) name of bidders whose bids were rejected; and (e) name of the winning 
bidder; upon request, the Recipient shall inform unsuccessful bidders of the reasons of 
their rejection. 
Page  16
14
12. 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints 
The Recipient shall establish an effective and independent protest mechanism 
allowing bidders to protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner.  
 
13. Fraud 
and 
Corruption
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time 
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices in competing for, or in executing, a 
contract financed by the Association. 
 
14. 
Right to Inspect/Audit
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Grant 
shall provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors, shall permit the Association, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Association.  
 
Page  17
15
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means a youth group receiving a Block-grant (as hereinafter 
defined) to carry out a Sub-project under Part B1 of the Project. 
3. 
“Block-grant” means funds provided to the Beneficiaries to carry out a Sub-
project (as hereinafter defined). 
4. 
“Block-grant Agreement” means the Agreement between MSATM and a 
Beneficiary to carry out a specific Sub-project (as hereinafter defined). 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
7. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means costs incurred on account of the operation 
and maintenance of facilities, equipment and vehicles used for Project 
implementation, communication and utility costs, cost of stationeries and other 
office supplies, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
8. 
“MED” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Development or any 
successor thereto. 
9. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
10. 
“MSATM” means the Recipient’s Ministry of State Administration and 
Territorial Management or any successor thereto. 
11. 
“NYF” means the National Youth Fund, to be managed under Part A of the 
Project.   
12. 
“National Youth Policy” means the Recipient’s National Youth Policy dated 
November 14, 2007. 
Page  18
16
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 16, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
15. 
 “Project Operation Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Recipient 
pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement, which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) implementation, financial management, audit and procurement arrangements 
for the Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation procedures; (iii) the criteria, 
methods and procedures to be used for providing Block-grants for Sub-projects; 
(iv) environmental guidelines for Sub-projects; and (v) guidelines for the 
preparation and implementation of annual work plans, as said Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association. 
16. 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee, referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
17. 
“SSYS” means the Recipient’s Secretariat of State for Youth and Sports, or any 
successor thereto. 
18. 
“Sub-project” means a set of activities carried out under Part B.1 of the Project 
and for which a Block-grant is to be provided. 
19. 
“TWG” means the Technical Working Group referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established by the Recipient to assist 
it in the implementation of the Project. 
 
