               Document of
            The World Bank


                                          Report No:




         RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                 ON A

    PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                    OF
TIMOR LESTE - YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
              IDA GRANT H4140
         BOARD DATE: JULY 1, 2008


                TO THE

  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE


           DECEMBER 15, 2011
                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CDD     Community Driven Development
DA      Designated Account
EPP     Emergency Project Paper
DNAF    Department of National Administration and Finance
FGD     Focus Group Discussion
FM      Financial Management
GoTL    Government of Timor-Leste
IDA     International Development Association
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Monitoring Information System
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MSATM   Ministry of State Administration and Territorial Management
NYF     National Youth Fund
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SSYS    Secretary of State for Youth and Sports
USD     United States Dollar
WA      Withdrawal Application
YDP     Youth Development Project
YPER    Youth Public Expenditure Review




         Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
                Country Director:        Ferid Belhaj
        Sector Manager / Director:       Charles Feinstein
               Task Team Leader:         Ingo Wiederhofer




                                     2
                                     TIMOR-LESTE
                      TIMOR LESTE - YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                        P106220
                                      CONTENTS

                                                                                                                     Page
A. SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS ................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 4
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ....................................................................................... 5
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING.................................... 6




                                                             3
              TIMOR LESTE - YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER




SUMMARY
The overall objective of the Youth Development Project (YDP) is to promote youth
empowerment and inclusion in development by expanding the capacities of, and
opportunities for, youth groups to initiate and participate in community and local
development initiatives.

The proposed level two restructuring would: (i) extend the Grant closing date to
September 30, 2012; (ii) reallocate Grant proceeds between Project disbursement
categories; (iii) increase the ceiling of the Designated Account; (iv) modify a number of
outcome indicators and targets in the Results Framework, and (v) add the community
procurement method to the Financing Agreement.

The proposed changes would: (i) enhance the likelihood of efficiently achieving the
Project Development Objective, (ii) reduce risks to outcomes and increase the
sustainability of Project results, and (iii) improve the measurement of Project results.



PROJECT STATUS
Progress towards achievement of the PDO has been Moderately Satisfactory with the
exception of procurement and financial management. To date, the Project has financed
280 grants to youth groups in four (of 13) districts of Timor-Leste. In addition, youth
have benefitted from the operationalization of four youth centers managed by the
Secretariat of State for Youth and Sport (SSYS) and supported with equipment and
training by the Project. Following a slow project startup, disbursement has reached
US$1,249,000 (61%) of Grant resources, the majority of which has been disbursed in the
last twelve months. The latest Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) rates
overall project implementation progress as Moderately Satisfactory.

Financial management and procurement, however, remain unsatisfactory, largely because
the availability of fiduciary staff of the Department of National Administration and
Finance (DNAF) of the MSATM has been reduced due to the exigencies of large and
unexpected development programs allocated to MSATM in the last 18 months. This has
led to significant shortcomings in the reliable and timely provision of information
required to manage and monitor the Project. The annual external audit for 2011, which
was due by June 30, 2011 was received on December 14, 2011. It is worth noting that the
audit opinion is unqualified and that the audit is satisfactory to IDA. Interim Unaudited
Financial Reports (IFRs) have also been received with significant delays.
                                              4
While it was agreed during the mid-term review that the PMU/MSATM could recruit
consultants to assist with these functions, the Project has struggled to attract and retain
qualified fiduciary personnel in an environment characterized by limited supply of
Timorese nationals with the required qualifications, and a competitive labor market for
skilled personnel in the context of a significant expansion of the civil service and the
presence of a large United Nations peacekeeping operation. The small size of the Project
has precluded recruitment of international technical assistance for these functions. The
Project does now again have a dedicated finance officer in place, and the restructuring
provides resources for an additional person to support this critical function. On the
procurement front, most procurement activities have been completed.


PROPOSED CHANGES

    • Results Indicators
The proposed restructuring would modify a number of key performance indicators in the
results framework to (i) address the fact that it was not possible to establish a baseline for
this Project, (ii) enhance measurability of anticipated Project results, and (iii) reflect the
changes agreed in the scope of component 1. See Annex 1 for details.

    • Components
For component 1, it has been agreed that the National Youth Fund (NYF) and the Youth
Public Expenditure Review (YPER) will no longer be supported under the Project. This
reflects the evolving institutional priorities of the SSYS. At the same time, component 2
youth grants have rolled out with some success in four districts, and MSATM would like
to expand these grants to a fifth district – Ermera.

   • Financing
   The proposed restructuring would include a reallocation of IDA Grant resources from
   component 1 (Operationalizing the National Youth Policy) to component 2 (Youth
   for Local Development). The reallocation would permit an increase in the number
   and geographic coverage of grants to rural youth groups under component 2 as well
   as enhanced financial management.

                               Project Costs (US$)
               Components/Activities               Current                     Proposed

 Component 1: Operationalizing the National
 Youth Policy                                                   520,000             290,000

 Component 2: Youth for Local Development                     1,598,000           1,828,000
 Total:                                                       2,118,000           2,118,000

           o Disbursement arrangements
Based on the above changes to the category allocations, and taking into account the
timetable for disbursements as outlined in the disbursement schedule, it is proposed to

                                              5
increase the ceiling of the Designated Account from US$200,000 to US$350,000. This
increase would facilitate the timely disbursement of resources for sub-projects


            o Reallocations
The below table reflects a proposed reallocation between disbursement categories. The
reallocation will lead to an increase of SDR110,000 for youth grants.


  Category of Expenditure           Allocation (SDR)                % of Financing
    Current       Revised        Current         Revised         Current      Revised
  (1) Block      No change       670,000         770,000          100%       No change
     Grants for
         Sub-
      projects
(2) Goods and    No change       630,000         530,000          100%         No change
       Works,
    Consultants
     ’ services,
      training,
       studies,
     workshops
         and
    incremental
     operating
        costs
                                1,300,000       1,300,000         100%           100%

   • Financial management
   The revised budget allocation includes provision for the payment of a dedicated
   finance officer for the Project at central level until Project closing.

   • Procurement
   The “community participation in procurement (CPP)? procurement method will be
   added to the Financing Agreement, to reflect the fact that youth grant sub-projects
   utilize this procurement method. This does not amount to a substantive change to
   procurement but rectifies an inconsistency between the original Emergency Project
   Paper and the Financing Agreement. Shopping will continue to be the default method
   for procurement of goods and works under CPP, with allowance for procurement
   under direct contracting for goods costing less than US$2,000 based on quality and
   distance considerations.

   • Closing Date
   The Project is currently scheduled to close on December 31, 2011. It is proposed to
   change the Project closing date to September 30, 2012. This is the first extension.
   The extension would allow for the implementation of the additional grants for
   component 2 of the Project, as well as the provision of additional technical support
   and training to youth groups that have initiated livelihoods-related activities with a
   view to enhancing their sustainability.
                                            6
• Implementation Schedule
The PMU/MSATM has prepared a detailed workplan and a procurement plan
satisfactory to IDA for the proposed extension period, January 1 – September 30,
2012. This includes the extension of one cycle of youth grants to a fifth district
(Ermera), and the addition of a second cycle of youth grants in Manufahi and Aileu
districts.




                                        7
                                                                     ANNEX 1:
                                                         Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                        TIMOR-LESTE: YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Project Development Objective (PDO):
The overall objective of the YDP is to promote youth empowerment and inclusion in development by expanding the capacities of and opportunities for youth groups to initiate and participate in
community and local development initiatives.
Revised Project Development Objective:
N/A
                                           D=Dropped
                                                                                              Cumulative Target Values**
                                           C=Continue                                                                                                                         Responsibility
                                    Core



                                           N= New        Unit of                                                                                           Data Source/
PDO Level Results Indicators*                                         Baseline                                                              Frequency                           for Data
                                           R=Revised     Measure                      YR 1          YR 2          YR 3           YR4                       Methodology
                                                                                                                                                                               Collection

Indicator One:
% of targeted communities where                R         Village          -             -             -             -            60%            Final      Village Youth     WB
youth feel that there are more                                                                                                                             FGDs
opportunities for youth
participation in community and
local development
Indicator Two:
% targeted communities that                    R         Village          -             -             -             -            60%            Final      Village Youth     WB
report increased youth                                                                                                                                     and Leadership
participation in local and                                                                                                                                 FGDs
community development activities
Indicator Three:
Improved SSYS performance                      R         Agency       Very low          -             -             -         Moderat           Final      End-of-Project    SSYS
ratings                                                                                                                       ely                          Capacity
                                                                                                                              Satisfact                    Building
                                                                                                                              ory                          Review
                                                                                 INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Intermediate Result (Component One):
SSYS provides leadership to implement the National Youth Policy; and targeted Youth Centers provide services that respond to demands of youth.

Revised Intermediate Result (Component One):
SSYS increases the managerial and administrative capacity of its staff; and SSYS increases capacity of YCMC to manage district youth centers.
Intermediate Result indicator
One:                                                                                                             -           System
Performance Monitoring                        C        System          None          --           --                       functioning            Final       SAPR          SSYS
System1 for SSYS designed and
functioning
Intermediate Result indicator
Two:                                                                                                                                                      End-of-Project   SSYS
% of YCMC members from                        R                          -            -            -             -             60%                Final     Capacity
targeted Youth Centers that                                                                                                                                 Building
report an increase in leadership,                                                                                                                            Review
management and planning skills
Intermediate Result (Component Two):
Local government provides a platform for youth engagement in local and community development initiatives that address their priority concerns.

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two):
N/A
Intermediate Result indicator
One:
% of youth participating in youth        N               Youth            -             -          20%          25%            30%               Annual       MIS          MSATM
decision-making meetings in
targeted communities
Intermediate Result indicator
Two:
Number of YDP subprojects-               R                Sub-         None             0           100          150           200               Annual       MIS          MSATM
implemented by youth in                                  project
targeted communities
Intermediate Result indicator
Three:
% of youth participating in the          R               Youth            -             -          10%          15%            20%               Annual       MIS          MSATM
implementation of youth
development projects in targeted
communities
Intermediate Result indicator
Four:
% of youth in FGDs in targeted           R               Village          -             -            -            -            70%               Final    Village Youth     WB
communities who are satisfied                                                                                                                                  FGD
with the goods and services
delivered through the YDP youth
grants
Intermediate Result indicator:
% of initiatives funded through          D                Sub-            -
Youth Grants that continue after                         project

1
    System for planning, monitoring and evaluation of SSYS performance.


                                                                                            9
funding expires




                  10
11
