                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                 ReportNo: 43547-TP


                          EMERGENCY PROJECTPAPER

                                         ONA

                          PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE

               INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                      INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 1.3MILLION

                         (US$2.1MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                   DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                        FORA

                        YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                     May28,2008




SocialDevelopmentUnit
SustainableDevelopment Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has arestricteddistribution andmay beusedby recipientsonly inthe
performanceoftheir officialduties. Its contents may not otherwisebedisclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                     Abbreviations andAcronyms

AAA      Analytical andAdvisory Activities
Aldeia   Hamlet
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Community DrivenDevelopment
CDO      Community Development Officer
CQS      Consultants' Qualifications Selection
DA       DesignatedAccount
DA       District Assemblies
DAd      DistrictAdministrator
DAF      Directorate of Administration andFinance
DAT      District Administration Treasury
DDA      Deputy District Administrator
DFO      District Finance Officer
D-TB     District Tender Board
DLDTM    Directorate of Local Development andTerritorial Management
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPP      Emergency Project Paper
ESSP     Education Sector Support Program
ESW      Economic and Social Work
F-FDTL   Timor-Leste Defence Force
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
FMS      Financial Management Statement
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoTL     Government of Timor-Leste
GTZ      GermanTechnical Cooperation
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
IDP      InternallyDisplaced Person
IFR      InterimFinancial Report
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
KDP      Kecamatan Development Program
LDP      Local Development Programme
LOC      Local Oversight Committee
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Monitoring InformationSystem
MoF      MinistryofFinance
MSATM    Ministry o f StateAdministration and TerritorialManagement
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      NonGovernment Organization
NPP      National PriorityProgram
NYF      NationalYouth Fund
NYP      NationalYouth Policy
OPBP     Operational Policy/Business Policy

                                                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

          PDO              Project Development Objective
          PEER             Participatory Ethnographic Evaluation andResearch
          PIC              Planning and Implementation Committees
          PIU              Project ImplementationUnit
          P M U            Project Management Unit
          PR               Procurement
          PREM             Poverty Reduction andEconomic Management
          QCBS             Quality Cost Based Selection
          SBTL             State Budget o f Timor-Leste
          SD-TB            Sub-District Tender Board
          SDA              Sub-District Assemblies
          SDAd             Sub-District Administrator
           SDFT            Sub-District Finance Team
           SDR             Special DrawingRights
           SOE             Statement of Expenditures
           SPP             Simplified Procurement Plan
           sss             Single Source Selection
           SSYS            Secretary of State for Youth and Sports
          sue0             Village
          TF               Trust Fund
          TTL              Task Team Leader
          TVET             Timor Vocational Education andTraining
          TWG              Technical Working Group
          UN               UnitedNations
          UNCDF            UnitedNations Capital Development Fund
          UNDP             UnitedNations Development Programme
          UNICEF           UnitedNations Children's Fund
          USD              United States Dollar
          VAT              Verification and Appraisal Team
          WA               Withdrawal Application
          YDP              Youth Development Project
          YF               Youth Facilitators
           YI T            Youth ImplementationTeam




                                       Vice President:      James W. Adams
                                     Country Director:      Nigel Roberts
                                      Sector Director:      Christian Delvoie
                                      Sector Manager:       Cyprian F.Fisiy
                                   Task Team Leader:        Ingo Wiederhofer



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                        Table of Contents


EmergencyProject Paper (Epp) Data Sheet ........................................................................                      i

    A.Introduction.,..........................................................................................................        1

    B.EmergencyChallenge: Country Context. Recovery
    StrategyAnd Rationale For ProposedBankEmergency Project.,                                         .............................. 2

    C.BankResponse: The Project...................................................................................                    6

    D.Appraisal OfProject Activities..............................................................................                    9

    E Implementation Arrangements AndFinancing Plan............................................
     .                                                                                                                               14

    F Project RisksAndMitigating Measures
     .                                                          ...............................................................      19

    G Terms And Conditions For Project Financing .....................................................
      .                                                                                                                              20




Annex 1:Detailed Description OfProject Components                            ...................................................     21

Annex 2: Results Framework And Monitoring                      ................................................................      28

Annex 3: Summary OfEstimatedProject Costs                       ...............................................................      33

Annex 4: Financial Management And DisbursementArrangements                                         ...............................   34

Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements...............................................................................                      43

Annex 6: Implementation AndMonitoring Arrangements...............................................                                    52

Annex 7:Project PreparationAnd Appraisal Team Members                                   .........................................    55

Annex 8: Youth InNumbers.............................................................................................                56

Annex 9: Youth InCrisis -Policy Priorities, Intervention

Options And Recomendations         ..........................................................................................        57

Map LBRD33496


                     EmergencyProjectPaper (EPP) DataSheet

                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF TIMOR-LESTE
                             Youth DevelopmentProject
                             EastAsia andPacific1 egion
Date: June 2,2008                                     Team Leader: Ingo Wiederhofer
Country Director: Nigel Roberts                       Sectors: Other Social Services
Sector Managermirector: Cyprian Fisiy                 (100%)
Lendinginstrument: Emergency operation                Themes: Conflict Prevention and
                                                      Post-Conflict Reconstruction (P);
                                                       Social Analysis and Monitoring (S);
                                                      Participation and Civic Engagement
                                                      (S); and Social Risk Mitigation(S).
                                                      Environmental screening category: C
                                                       Safeguard screening category: C
Project ID(s): P106220




Project ID(s): P106220                        Total Amount: SDR 1.3 million
Proposed terms:                               Expected implementation period:
                                              July 31,2008 - June 30,201 1
Expected effectiveness date: July 31,2008     Expectedrevised closing date:
                                              December 31,2011
Recipient: Democratic Republic o f Timor-     Responsible agency: Ministryo f State
Leste                                         Administration and Territorial Management




Short Description:
The PDO will be achievedthrough two components: (1) Operationalizingkey aspectso f the
National Youth Policy; and, (2) Youth for Local Development. These components and their
respective sub-components are summarized below. Annex 1provides more detail.

Component I: Operationalizing the National Youth Policv ($520.000): This component
will support the Secretariat o f State for Youth and Sports (SSYS) to operationalize the
National Youth Policy by: (i) strengtheningits institutional capacity to develop, implement
and coordinate policy andprograms relating to its mandate, including the establishment o f a
unit to administer the National Youth Fundwithin SSYS; and, (ii)    enhancing its ability to
work with youth groups, organizations and youth centers, and support youth initiatives. The
component will consist o f two sub-components.

Component 2: Youth for Local Develovment ($1.6 million): This component will support
the SSYS and the Ministryo f State Administration and Territorial Management (MSATM)
to establish a mechanism to distributesmall =ants to vouth inrural villages (sum) and

                                            i

hamlets (aldeia) via the MSATM's local government platform, the Local Development
Programme (LDP). These youth grants would be usedfor wide-range o f activities, including
rehabilitation o f livelihoods, rehabilitation o f youth centers and youth facilities, social
activities and events, as well as small community development activities. The component
will facilitate the participation o frural youth inlocal development activities and local
development processes.

Financing Plan(US$m.)
Source                                     ILocal                IForeign                ITotal
Borrower
Total IBRD/IDA                                                     $2.lm
Trust Funds
Others
Total


                                 2008        2009        2010      2011       2012        2013
Total IBRD/IDA                   0.3         0.5         0.8       0.5
Trust Funds


Have these been approved by Bankmanagement?

Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                        Yes [ X I No [ 3

What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?                                      OP 4.01

Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany:
The completion o f an Operations Manual acceptable to the Bankwill be a condition o f
Droiect effectiveness.




                                                ..
                                                11

                    DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OFTIMOR-LESTE
                                 Youth DevelopmentProject

A.        Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
IDAgrant inan amount o f SDR 1.3 million (US$2.1 million) to the Democratic Republic
o f Timor-Leste for a proposed Youth Development Project (YDP).

2.      Youth played a seminal role in the violence that erupted in 2006 and which saw
hundreds o f thousands displaced, property worth thousands o f dollars destroyed,
hundreds injured, and dozens killed. In the absence o f a concerted effort to provide
opportunities for youth to engage meaningfully with communities and government in
national recovery and development efforts, the risk o f youth marginalization from
development and civic life will persist. The proposed Project will support the
Government's efforts to address the social, economic and political factors that led to the
involvement o f youth in the crisis o f 2006 and in the ongoing manifestations o f social
instability since then.

3.      The overall objective o fthe YDP i s to promote youth empowerment and inclusion
in development by expanding the capacities of and opportunities for youth groups to
initiate andparticipate incommunity and local development initiatives.'

4.      These objectives will be accomplished through the following activities to be
undertakenthrough the YDP: (i)       strengthening the capacity o f the government to develop
policy, coordinate stakeholders and strengthen youth inclusion in national development
planning; (ii)assisting the government to establish a unit to administer the National
Youth Fund; (iii)supporting the government's efforts to rehabilitate defunct youth
centers; and (iv) providing small grants to youth groups or local development activities in
rural areas.

5.      The project will be implemented through the Secretariat o f State for Youth and
Sport (SSYS) and the Ministry o f State Administration and Territorial Management
(MSATM).The task team has worked closely with these two government departments to
design the Project. There i s strong ownership and both departments have indicated their
intention to contribute fbnding for discrete expenditures interms o f in-kindcontributions
and state budget. In addition, the task team is currently exploring the possibilities o f
additional fbture co-financing from AusAID, relating in particular to activities (iii)           and
(iv). The Project will also work closely with UNICEF and GTZ on their planned support
to the SSYS, and with UNDP/UNCDF on their ongoing support to decentralization in
MSATM.

6.      The World Bank has in recent year increasingly recognized the importance o f
youth for development activities. The World Development Report 2007: Development


'TheProject adopts the National Youth Policy's definition o f youth: those aged 16 to 30 years.


                                                   1

     and the Next Generation highlighted the importance o f broadening the opportunities for
     youth, and developing the capabilities o f youth as decision makers.

     B.      EmergencyChallenge:CountryContext,RecoveryStrategy andRationale
     for ProposedBankEmergencyProject.

     CountryContext

     7.      In1999, the citizens ofTimor-Leste voted overwhelmingly for the restorationof
     independence from Indonesia. Timor-Leste had been occupied for 24 years by Indonesia
     after being colonized by Portugal for 400 years. After the referendum a campaign o f
     violence, driven by exiting Indonesian soldiers and pro-Indonesian forces, swept across
     the country. This resulted inhundreds o f deaths, thousands o f internally displaced people,
     and the widespread destruction o f existing physical infrastructure. Up to 70% o f private
     homes and public buildings, bridges and power lines, as well as the telecommunications
     system were destroyed.2

     8.      Inthe first four years following the restoration of independence, Timor-Leste
     remained relatively stable. The Timorese Government made significant steps to foster
     reconciliation by establishing a Commission on Reception, Truth, and Reconciliation.
     Security was assured through the deployment o f a UN Mission that focused on peace-
     keeping, training, and support to the Timorese police force. The government has shown a
     commitment to promoting growth and reducing poverty with its focus on basic economic
     andsocial services. However, economic growth since independence has beenlow.

     9.      In2006 Diliwas plungedintoviolence after adisaffectedgroup ofsoldiers ofthe
     national army (the F-FDTL) went on strike and were subsequently dismissed. In the
     ensuingviolence over 160,000 people were displaced, at least 2,000 houses were torched.
     The unrest had a devastating impact on the economy: coffee production fell by about 20
     percent and real non-oil GDP declined by 5.8 percent in 2006. A new United Nations
     mission was deployed to assist with the restoration o f security, and this helped to restore
     economic growth in2007.

     10.     The consequences o f the repeated episodes o f instability can still be felt. Over
     100,000 Timorese,     10 percent o f the population, continue to be displaced. Many
     communities remain divided and a large number o f gangs continue to defy the law.
     International security personnel are still required to provide security support to
     government law enforcement agen~ies.~The recent assassination attempts on President
     Ramos Horta and Prime Minister Gusmao, and the subsequent instatement o f a state o f
     emergency andcurfew, indicate that the risk o f instability remains high.

     Youth in Crisis

     11.     Youth played a central role in the violence and instability. A 2007 World Bank
     report indicates that while youth were not the instigators o f the violence they were used

a    2WorldBank, Timor-Leste Country AssistanceStrategy,2005.
      Inearly 2008, approximately 1,600 UNpoliceandover 1,000 troops fromAustraliaandNewZealand
     remain deployedinTimor Leste.


                                                    2

as agitators and also exploited the breakdown inlaw and order to loot business and exact
revenge for past grievances. This involvement o f youth in the ongoing crisis, instability
and violence has drawn attention to the position and plight o f youth inpost-independent
Timor-Leste.

12.      The country i s undergoing a profound demographic shift. It has a significant
youth bulge, with 34 percent o f the population in the 12-29 age group. This proportion
will increase as a result o f the high fertility rate o f 7.8 births per woman. Given these
statistics, addressing youth needs and aspirations will remain a key policy challenge in
the medium-tern and the l~nger-term.~

13.      Young people inTimor-Leste confront significant challenges. Although youth are
the most educated group o f the population, only 68 percent o f those aged 15-24 are
literate in Tetum and only 17 percent in Portuguese (the two official languages). The
2003 Demographic and Health Study reported that only 1.7 percent o f males and 3.4
percent o f females inthe 15 - 29 age bracket, and only 6 percent o f males and 8.7 percent
o f females inthe 20 -24 age bracket had completedprimary school.

14.      Youth unemployment rates are significant, estimated at approximately 43 percent
nationally and up to 59 percent in Dili. While poor education plays some role in these
high figures, educated urban youth represent a significant share o f the long-term
unemployed. Private sector employment opportunities continue to be limited, and the
public sector is credible alternative source o f employment for the 16,000 youth who enter
the labor market every year.

15.      Social ties within communities have also been weakened, especially in urban
areas. Customary leadership mechanisms for dispute resolution, administration of land
and other resources remain robust in rural areas but are unsurprisingly under strain in
urban settings, particularly Dili. Youth participation inneighborhood gangs appears to be
high. Membership ingangs is often perceived as a form o fpolitical engagement. Insum,
lack o f employment opportunities, the prevalence o f such groups and the breakdown in
social control mechanisms has encouraged parts o f the youth population to participate in
opportunistic activities, including crime and vigilantism.

16.      Finally, relations between the government and youth are strained. A 2005 World
Bank report highlighted a tenuous link between government and citizens stating that,
"policies, laws, and the completion o f institutions, are largely invisible to the electorate."
The Government's adoption o f Portuguese as one o f its two official languages i s
frequently cited by Timorese youth as an important source o f their perceived
marginalization. In addition, youth lack necessary civic education and opportunities to
engage meaningfullyinthe nation-building process.

17.      Inthe absence o f a rapid, concerted and sustained effort to provide opportunities
for youth to engage with communities and government, the risk o f a significant
proportion o f youth feeling increasingly excluded from economic development and civic


4See Annex 8 for a summary o f statistics relating to youth.

life will continue. Inthe event o f further instability, these youth could further destabilize
Timor-Leste.

GovernmentResponse

18.     The new coalition government formed inAugust 2007 has prioritized a number o f
activities with a view to stabilizing Timorese society and laying a foundation for
inclusive growth. The priorities for 2008 have been laid out inthe government's National
Priority Program (NPP). Key areas o f focus include security sector reform, resettling
IDPs, accelerating budget execution so as to stimulate the economy, generating
employment, and addressing key social issues, including those o f youth.

19.     The government promulgated a National Youth Policy (NYP) inNovember 2007.
The Policy seeks to address a wide range o f social, economic and political issues
affecting youth. The SSYS i s charged with taking this agenda forward and has developed
an action plan and started reaching out to civil society and donors. Notably, the
Government has allocated a significant amount o f its own resources to the SSYS to
implement its action plan, including through a National Youth Fund(NYF) to be used "to
finance initiatives o f youth groups and association^.'^^ The SSYS has requested World
Bank assistance to strengthen its capacity to operationalize the NYP and specifically the
NYF.

BankResponseandStrategy

20.     Inthe volatile recent environment, the Bankhas sought to work closely with the
government so as to ensure that key social services continued to operate throughout the
crisis. In2008, the Bank moved to introduce BP/OP 8.00 to enable the rapid preparation
o f emergency projects as required.

21.     To better understand the reasons for youth involvement in the crisis and
subsequent violence, the Bank undertook a situational analysis o f the challenges that
youth face and the factors that led to their involvement in the crisk6 This analysis
identified a mix o f economic, social and political factors, and recommended the
following policy and intervention priorities (see diagram be lo^).^ This analysis was well
received by government, civil society, and donors alike; andhelpedto inform the Nyp as
well as government's response to the situation.

22.     The World Bank is currently moving forward on a number o f these priority
interventions, and aims to help the government's efforts to tackle the range o f the social,
political and economic factors mentioned above. First, through the Education Sector
Support Program the Bank together with AusAID have initiated efforts to review and
strengthen the vocational training sector, as well as strengthening basic education.
Second, in cooperation with other donors, including AusAID, the Asian Development


  NationalYouth Policy. Government o fTimor-Leste, November 2007.
'WorldAnnex
        Bank, Timor-Leste's Youth inCrisis: Situational Analysis and Policy Options, September 2007.
  See       9 for an overview table o f the key recommendations o fthis report.


                                                    4

Bank, and the European Commission, the Bank i s preparing a national workfare program
that would seek to create short-term employment opportunities.' Third, a new initiative
by the Justice for the Poor Program plans to investigate the breakdown in formal and
informal controls on youth, and to improve understanding o f the role o f community
justice. Inadvancing these national-scale initiatives, the Bank i s coordinating efforts with
the interests o f other donors engaged inthis sector.

23.      The proposed Youth Development Project (YDP) is designed to address the issues
o f youth exclusion from communities and from local development processes. Through
the YDP the government's capacity to work more effectively with youth and youth
organizations to ensure the social and civic inclusion o f youth in Timorese life will be
strengthened. The diagram below summarizes these programs and their links to the
analysis and recommendations o fthe Youth inCrisis report.




                        Recommendations and Proaosed Proeramminri.




#6: Support a
youth-led
communication
                                                                                                   5




* TheBank recently completed a study on the challenges youth confront inthe labor market, Timor-Leste
 Youth Development and the Labor Market, World Bank, 2007.


                                                   5

C.        Bank Response: The Project

ProjectDevelopmentObjectives

24.      The overall objective o fthe YDP is to promote youth empowerment and inclusion
in development by expanding the capacities of and opportunities for youth groups to
initiate and participate incommunity and local development initiatives.

Summaryof ProjectComponents

25.      The PDO will be achieved through two components: (1) Operationalizing the
National Youth Policy; and, (2) Youth for Local Development. These components and
their respective sub-components are summarized below. Annex 1provides more detail.

26.      The two components andthe mechanisms they deploy to provide opportunities for
youth to participate in community and local development activities are complementary.
The first component, specifically the National Youth Fund(NYF), will beginby focusing
its support for youth initiatives and youth capacity building in mostly urban and more
accessible areas. It i s anticipated that the NYF will focus on youth groups, youth
organizations, and youth associations, and will be a flexible and particularly effective
instrument for targeting urban and "high risk" youth. The second component will
complement the first in the sense that it will help the SSYS to fulfill its strategy o f
mobilizing youth to serve communities by reaching out to youth in rural areas through
MSATM's local government platform. Specifically, the second component will facilitate
the participation o f rural youth in community development activities and local
development processes.

Component1: Operationalizingthe National YouthPolicv ($520,000)

27.      This component will support the Secretariat o f State for Youth and Sports (SSYS)
to operationalize the National Youth Policy by: (i)  strengthening its institutional capacity
to develop, implement and coordinate policy and programs relating to its mandate,
including the establishment o f a unit to administer the National Youth Fund within
SSYS; and, (ii)   enhancing its ability to work with youth groups, organizations and youth
centers, and support youth initiatives. The component will consist o f the following two
sub-components.

Sub-ComponentA: Institutiona1Strengthening

28.      This sub-component will strengthen the capacity o f the SSYS to develop,
implement and coordinate policy andprogramming relating to its mandate as identified in
the National Youth Policy. A recent Bank-supported capacity buildingassessment o f the
SSYS identified a strategy for strengthening its capacity in a number o f key areas. This
sub-component will assist the SSYS to implement a series o f capacity building
workshops as recommended in the assessment and to conduct an annual progress report
o f its capacity. In addition, it will support the SSYS to undertake an annual expenditure
review o fthe government's budget allocation for youth programming.


                                                6

29.     This sub-component will also support the SSYS to establish a unit to manage and
administer the National Youth Fund (NYF), a key element o f the government's National
Youth Policy (NYP) and for which the SSYS has a significant budget allocation (about
$2.5 million has been earmarked to be spent by the end o f December 2008). Specifically,
the Project will finance the design and implementation o f guidelines and mechanisms to
administer and monitor the NYF. The sub-component will provide: (i)technical
assistance; (ii)modest funds for office refurbishment and equipment; (iii)       support for
socialization o f the NYF; and, (iv) support for outreach and capacity building.

Sub-Component B: Strengthening Youth Centers

30.     This sub-component will provide fhding to strengthen the capacity of the SSYS
to work with and coordinate the activities o f youth centers. It will fund capacity building
for the staff and management o f select youth centers and youth associations to improve
their management and programming. The SSYS will provide core funding grants, or
administrative grants, for select youth centers and youth associations from the NYF.

Component 2: Youth for Local Development ($1.6 million)

31.     This component will support the Ministry o f State Administration and Territorial
Management (MSATM) to establish a mechanism to distribute small grants to youth in
rural villages (suco) and hamlets (aldeia) via the MSATM's existing local government
platform, the LocalDevelopment Programme (LDP).

32.     The Project will provide support to pilot the component in five districts over the
three-year project period. Each district would have a minimumo f two cycles o f funding.
The GoTL anticipates scaling the Program into all 13 districts in Timor-Leste ifthe pilot
i s successful.

Sub-Component A: Youth Grants

33.     This sub-component will provide earmarked funds for rural youth. These funds
will be made available to youth groups at the village level to identify, prioritize, and
implement sub-projects-such     as livelihood activities, rehabilitating youth centers, social
events, construction o f small infrastructure, and life skills training-within   their suco.
The planning, implementation, and monitoring process will be driven by youth. The
grants will be allocated based on total population so as to ensure fairness. The amount
allocated will be approximately $1.80 per person. This will results in grants o f
approximately $2,200 to $5,000 per suco depending on the population.

Sub-Component B: Youth Facilitators and Capacity Building

34.     The primary aim o f this sub-component is to support the suco youth to implement
their project. To this end, the sub-component will provide support to train and staff a
corps o f Youth Facilitators (YF) who will support implementation o f the component's



                                              7

activities at the village level. This will include socialization o f the project to suco youth,
youth consultation meetings, and capacity building support to a Youth Implementation
Team (YIT) for each suco. These workshops will assist the YIT to refine their proposal,
to plan its implementation, to learn how to mitigate social and environmental impacts in
sub-projects, and to ensure that at least one member of each YIT i s trained in the
project's basic financial reporting obligations. The capacity building workshops under
this sub-component will link with those under the NYF.

Sub-Component C: Program Implementation and Technical Support

35.     This sub-component will augment the project implementation capacity o f the
existing Project Management Unit within M S A T M that supports the LDP. This will
include outreach, training, administrative support staff, equipment as well as technical
assistancewith documentation, training development andM&E. This sub-component will
also include socialization and communication activities associated with the program. In
addition, technical assistance will be provided to ensure that the use o f the youth grants i s
gender inclusive.

Eligibilityfor Processingunder OP/BP8.00

36.     Inlightofthepolitical andsecurity situation described above, the Bankdecidedin
2007 to process all new projects inTimor-Leste under OP/BP 8.00. The proposed Project
responds to a specific Government request for the Bank to assist the government to
operationalize its strategies for addressing the youth crisis. The activities proposed as part
of the YDP are specifically designed to provide short-term impact, and the creation o f
youth development projects at the community level, as well as to pilot longer-tern
solutions by puttinginplace processes and mechanisms that will allow the government to
address some o f the underlying causes o f perceived youth alienation and to leverage the
considerable potential o f youth to contribute actively to recovery and development in
Timor-Leste.

37.     The recent assassination attempts on the President and the Prime Minister have
shown that recovery and development in Timor-Leste remains fragile. OPBP 8.00
provides the task team with the opportunity to develop andimplement the project rapidly.
The use o f other instruments would delay this response and thereby fail to take advantage
ofa window o fopportunity for action.

Consistency with CountryStrategy(CAS or ISN)

38.     The Project is consistent with the overall objective o f the current Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which establishes youth as a cross-sectoral issue to be
mainstreamed across three main pillars of (i)    delivering sustainable services; (ii) creating
productive employment; and (iii)strengthening governance. These three pillars, and
particularly the youth issue, will continue to remain relevant in the next period. The
proposed project would particularly contribute to pillars (i)  and(iii).




                                               8

ExpectedOutcomes

39.      The expected outcomes o f the Project are summarized inthe table below (Annex
2 includes more detail on intermediary outcomes as well as methods).

 PDO                               ProjectOutcome Indicators             Use of Project Outcome
                                                                         Information

 The overall objective o fthe YDP  % change infemale andmale youth       Assess improvements in
 is to promote youth empowerment   from targeted communities who feel    youth empowerment and
 and inclusion indevelopment by    that there are more opportunities for inclusion
 expanding the capacities of and   youth participation incommunity and
 opportunities for youth groups to local development
 initiate andparticipate in
 community and local development   % change infemale andmale youth
 initiatives.                      from targeted communities who
                                   participate inplanning and managing
                                   community development activities in
                                   urban and rural areas

                                   ImprovedSSYS performance ratings




D.          Appraisalof ProjectActivities

Economicand FinancialAnalysis

40.       In light o f the demand-driven approach o f the Project, a rigorous economic
analysis i s not feasible at this stage. However, economic analyses undertaken on other
programs that utilize a transfer o f block grants to community groups can provide a
general indication o f the economic impacts o f such programs. For example, economic
analyses o f the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) in Indonesiaindicate that (i)           self-
implemented community projects invested in small-scale infrastructure can generate an
Economic Internal Rate o f Return (EIRR) o f between 39 to 68 percent; (ii)that self-
implementation i s more cost-effective than local government contracts (on average 56%
less); (iii) it can generate employment-albeit
             that                                         temporary-and     (iv) have significant
impacts on poverty. The Task Team will endeavor to monitor and evaluate the Program's
economic impact through additional AAA and ESW work, including through the
establishment o f baselines in beneficiary communities o f component 2 in the first nine
months o fProject implementation.

SocialAnalysis

41.      The Bank's analysis on youth-the          2005 youth social analysis and the 2007
situational analysis-has      mapped the youth cohort in Timor-Leste and provided detailed
analysis o f the factors placing youth at risk o f violence. Risk factors for youth include
poverty and unemployment, community cohesion, political marginalization and
dissatisfaction, and socio-cultural factors. It has been noted that youth feel excluded from



                                                  9

nation-building and that there are few opportunities to participate in civic life. The 2007
"Youth in Crisis" report points to the need to increase links between youth and the state,
andto strengthenthe capacity o flocal organizations andassociations.

42.    Both components o f the YDP are geared towards enhancing social inclusion of
youth and strengthening the capacity o f government institutions, especially the SSYS, to
work with youth and include them in economic and social development. The Project will
strengthen these links by buildingthe capacity o f the SSYS to support, and work with,
local youth organizations and associations. Inaddition, the Youth for Local Development
component will provide opportunities for youth to contribute meaningfully to community
development initiatives. It is expected that this will strengthen social capital and create
informal channels o f engagement between youth and other segments o f beneficiary
communities.

43.    Although strengtheningthe capacity o f the state to work with youth i s o f critical
importance, particularly given the state's resources, it is also important to balance this
with support to civil society. To maximize the opportunities and resources to beneficiary
groups, the task team plans to seek a JSDF grant that would focus more on youth
advocacy andparticipation incivil society through non-state actors.

Institutional

44.    The Project's primary counterpart for purposes o f overall financial management
and procurement will be the Ministry o f State Administration and Territorial
Management (MSATM). The MSATMwill implement component two o f the Project and
be responsible for overall fiduciary management o f the IDA resources. M S A T M has the
mandate to conceive, execute, coordinate, and evaluate policies approved by the Council
o f Ministers in areas such as public functions and regional and local public
administration. The SSYS will implement Component 1 in coordination with MSATM.
The SSYS sits within the Prime Ministers Office and is charged with implementingthe
National Youth Policy and coordinating the government's youth policy across
government departments and line ministries.

45.     The M S A T M has been the parent ministry for the emerging local government
platform, the Local Development Programme (LDP). The LDP was created in 2003 to
pilot sub-national structures, specifically District Assemblies (DA) and Sub-District
Assemblies (SDA), which manage planning and implementation o f development projects
at the sub-national level. The system promotes bottom-up planningby mandating aldeia
(hamlets) to identify development priorities that are presented to the suco (village)
councils. Subsequently these priorities are passed up to the sub-district and district-level
and incorporated into the respective investment plans. These governance structures are
established by Ministerial Decree No. 8/2005 on Local Assemblies as part o f the pilot
program to ensure that the state administration i s linked with the community. To date, the
LDP has received extensive technical and financial support from UNCDF/UNDP. Inthe
2008 the government expanded the number o f districts from four to eight and allocated
$2.1 million to the LDP for local sub-district anddistricts grants.



                                             10

46.      A recent policy has been promulgated on decentralization that seeks to
institutionalize the LDP and expand the scope o f local g~vernment.~Although the exact
details are to be finalized, the policy indicates that it may merge the sub-district and
district levels to form consolidated administrative units at the district level. These units
would deliver a range o f services to citizens and involve the decentralization o f a number
o f line agencies.

Technical

47.      The recipients o f the youth grants-whether              they be youth groups, youth
organizations, youth centers or rural village youth-will              require various degrees o f
technical skills depending on the projects prioritized by the NYF (Component 1) and
selected by the youth themselves (Component 2). This could include management skills
for managing social events or more technical knowledge should rural youth decide to
build a local youth center, for example. Although it expected that youth will propose
activities that they are capable o f implementing, the Project includes a number o f
mechanisms to ensure that technical assistance is available to beneficiaries: (a) Youth
Facilitators will be recruited for each sub-district based on their range o f technical (as
well as process) skills, and will be provided with technical training as necessary; (b) the
Project will engage outreach organizations and NGOs to provide technical support on
demand; (c) the Project will engage an organization or NGO experienced in the
management o f youth centers to support the technical aspects o f youth center
management; (d) the Project will draw upon the LDP's existing Planning and
Implementing Committees (PICs) which include technical personnel at both the district-
and sub-district-level; and (e) the Project will draw upon the technical skills o f the
Community Development Officers (CDOs) stationed at the sub-district-level.

48.      Inaddition, the project will review technical aspects inits regular monitoring and
evaluation efforts. The NYF administrative unit will undertake monitoring with respect to
NYF grants. The LDP's existing Verification and Appraisal Teams (VATS)and Local
Oversight Committees (LOCs) as well as the Youth Facilitators will play a role in
monitoring and supervising the technical aspects o f the youth projects. Technical
supervision will be included inthe Project's Operations Manual.

Fiduciary

49.      The fiduciary capacity o f both the Directorate o f Administration and Finance
within the MSATMandthe Directorate o fFinance within the SSYS were assessedas part
o f appraisal in M a y 2008. The Directorate within the M S A T M was selected as the main
counterpart due to its superior capacity and experience at managing a wider and larger
range o f financial and procurement transactions. As the SSYS i s a relatively new
institution, the project will provide capacity building including in the areas o f financial
management and procurement to SSYS with a view to strengthening its capacity to
effectively administer significant resources inthe medium-term.


 Government o f Timor-Leste. Policy Orientation Guidelines for Decentralization and Local Government in
Timor-Leste. March 2008.


                                                 11

50.     Financial Management. The financial management capacity o f M S A T M was
found to be adequate to meet the financial requirements o f the project. However this will
need to be monitored during the project to ensure additional assistance is not required.
The financial management risk o f the project was found to be substantial. The Directorate
o f Administration and Finance was found to posses knowledgeable and skilled personnel
consisting o f 11 permanent staff and 37 temporary personnel. Permanent staff includes
the Director o f Administration and Finance, the Head o f Finance, an Internal Auditor, a
Head o f HumanResources, as well as a Head o f Procurement, The Directorate employs
temporary staff at both the central and district levels. The Directorate has significant
financial management experience working with UNCDF and UNDP.

51.      The MSATM's LDP system for local government planning and development
includes finance teams at both the district- (eight districts) and sub-district-levels (four
districts). The District Administration Treasury (DAT) consists o f the District
Administrator (DA), the Deputy District Administrator (DDA) and the District Finance
Officer (DFO). The Sub-District Assembly Finance Team (SDAFT) consists o f the Sub-
District Administrator (SDAd), the Community Development Officer (CDO), and the
Local Government Officer (LG). The DAT and SDAFT comply with the Ministerial
Directive No. 7/2005 on Finance Procedures for District Budget Programmes and the
Local Development Programme.

52.     Procurement. The procurement capacity o f MSATMwas found to be satisfactory,
while procurement risk was found to be average The Directorate o f Administration and
Finance within M S A T M includes a dedicated procurement unit at the central-level which
consists o f four permanent staff and one temporary staff. The Directorate is not
experienced with World Bank procurement guidelines having not previously worked with
the Bank. However, the unit possesses skilled staff and clear procedures, and is
accustomed to handling a large number o f procurement transactions. The assessment
team determined that with initial training in Bank procurement guidelines and oversight
the unit would be capable o fhandlingthe Project procurement needs.

53.      The MSATM's LDP system also includes procurement bodies at the district and
sub-district-level.  Ministerial Directive No. 8/2005 on Procurement Regulation
establishes the Planning and Implementation Committees (PICs) as the procuring body
on behalf o f the District Assemblies (DA) and Sub-District Assemblies (SDA). In
addition, District and Sub-District Tender Boards (D-TB and SD-TBrespectively) ensure
transparent and accountable procurement o f contracts. These Tender Boards have the
authority to procure public goods, services and works up to $10,000. The Directorate
within MSATM canprocure up to $100,000; whereas anything above this amount is with
the National ProcurementDivisionwithin the MoF.

54.     Details o f the fiduciary assessments and arrangements are presented in Annex 4
(Financial Management and Disbursal Arrangements) and Annex 5 (Procurement
Arrangements) respectively.




                                            12

Safeguards

55.     Overall, the Project i s expected to have positive social and environmental
impacts. Indeed, as the social analysis above indicates, the Project specifically targets the
social factors that contribute to the current youth crisis. With respect to safeguards, the
Project has triggered OPBP 4.01. The Operations Manual will provide detailed
guidelines to ensure that sub-projects under the grants components do not result in
resettlement or land acquisition. It will also ensure that there are guidelines that ensure
participation and inclusion o f marginalized groups such as disabled youth and female
youth.




  I Safetv of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 I            1     x      1
    Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                X
    Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP 7.60)                                          X
  I Pilotingthe Use ofBorrowerSvstems fOP/BP 4.00)              I            1     x      1

56.     Environmental Safeguards. It is estimated that grants provided for youth centers,
youth organizations, and youth at the village will be usedto finance a range o f activities
including small-scale rehabilitation o f youth centers, the construction o f small-scale
community infrastructure such as water pipe networks, sanitation facilities, and small
sports facilities, such as sports fields. The Operations Manual will detail procedures to
ensure that any construction andor rehabilitation associated with these tasks are
technically sound and in line with the Bank's safeguard policies and will not result in
adverse impacts on the environment.

57.     The YDP is a category C project. The Project triggers the following safeguard
policies: OP/BP 4.0 1 on Environmental Assessment. An Environmental and Social
Management Framework will be prepared by the Ministryo f State Administration and
Territorial Management and will outline the requirements vis-&vis consultations and
mitigation measures.

LessonsLearned

58.     The project has benefited from lessons learned on similar operations in post-
conflict settings (e.g., Sudan, Afghanistan, Nepal), that have focused on promoting local
development and prepared under OPBP 8.00 procedures. Some o f the lessons reflected
indesigninclude: (i)     keeping project design relatively simple but allowing for sufficient
flexibility in project design to adapt to changes in policy and implementation
environment; (ii),   embracing good systems (e.g., LDP) that are already in place and


                                              13

supported by the Government to ensure rapid execution; and, iii)empowering youth to
make genuine decisions rather than treating them as passive beneficiaries. The Bank's
World Development Report o f 2007 specifically highlighted the importance of youth as
"active citizens".

59.     In addition, engagement with local Timorese communities both by Government
andby donor agencies have resulted inthe development o f a number o f lessons which the
YDP will respond to:

60.     Proper oversight is required to ensurefunds are spent as intended. Experiences
o f the M S A T M working with youth at the village level has shown that unless proper
oversight and guidance i s provided hnds may be used for unintendedpurposes. The YDP
will address this by ensuringthat detailed guidelines are provided for the use o f hnds and
that there i s sufficient capacity building on project implementation and monitoring
available for youth insuco and the staff o f youth centers. Regulartechnical and fiduciary
monitoring will also be ensured.

61.     Access to technical support will improve the quality and sustainability of outputs.
Experiences from previous Bank-supported community driven development projects in
Timor-Leste and the experience o f other donors have indicated that there i s a need for
coordination between sub-projects implemented at the community level and technical
departments o f sector ministries in order to ensure the sustainability o f the outputs. This
will be most relevant in the Youth for Local Development component. The YDP will
address this by providing linkages with existing technical specialists available through
the LDP at the suco level (the technical specialists who serve on the Suco Councils) and
at the Sub-District levels (in Sub-District Assemblies).

62.     Creating parallel structures will reduce levels of ownership. Previous Bank-
experience has shown that the creation o f parallel governance systems that bypass
recognized leadership systems may de-legitimize project efforts. By working through
existing institutions and systems the YDP will mitigate this risk.

Exceptionsto BankPolicies

63.     The Project has beenprepared under OP/BP 8.00. No exceptions to Bank policies
have been sought.

E.        ImplementationArrangementsandFinancingPlan

64.     The implementation o f the Project has been designed to maximize ownership o f
the Project's activities, build internal government capacity, and ensure the sustainability
o f the program within the government's policy priorities and work schedule. For this
reason, the project implementation is integrated as far as possible into government
structures andutilizes andbuilds upon existing systems.




                                             14

ProjectCoordinationandManagement

65.     The SSYS and the MSATM will cooperate to implement the Project.                   For
fiduciary purposes, the formal government counterpart for the project will be the Ministry
of State Administration and Territorial Management (MSATM). The SSYS will work
closely with M S A T M and will be responsible for implementation o f Component 1
(Operationalizing the National Youth Policy). One committee and one technical working
group will be established to ensure coordination between these two government
departments, and to ensure effective and rapid implementation o f the Project. The
diagram below summarizes the arrangement.


                                              Project
                                             Steering
                                            Committee




                                             Technical
                     SSYS                    Working                  MSATM
                     ( P V                    Group                 (LDP-PMU)




66.      Proiect Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee will oversee project
implementation. More specifically, it will: (i)   oversee the Technical Working Group; (ii)
facilitate the coordination o f the various institutions involved in the Project; (iii)
                                                                                     review
and endorsement o f annual progress reports; and, (iv) endorse annual workplan. The
committee will consist o f the Minister o f MSATM, the Secretary o f the SSYS, and a
representative o f MED, and a civil society representative. The Minister o f M S A T M and
Secretary o f the SSYS will co-chair the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee
will meet biannually. The specific terms o f reference for the Project Steering Committee
will be specified inthe Operations Manual.

67.     Technical Working Group (TWG). The TWG will be the Bank's main counterpart
and technical focal point for project implementation. It will be responsible for: (i)
coordination between M S A T M and SSYS, particularly with respect to finance and
procurement matters; (ii)coordination among other institutions involved in the Project,
including contractors involved in implementation o f both components; and (iii)       liaison
with the World Bank. It will consist o f a lead representative from the MSATM and
SSYS, the heads o f finance from both M S A T M and SSYS, and other department and



                                              15

technical staff. The leadrepresentatives from M S A T M and SSYS will co-chair the TWG.
The TWG will meet on a quarterly basis at least, and more regularly as necessary. A
detailed terms o f reference for the TWG will be specified inthe Operations Manual.

ActivityImplementation

68.     The SSYS intends to establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to coordinate
the activities o f component one. The PIUwill work closely with the SSYS's Directorates.
Specifically, the Directorate o f Policy and Development will play a key role in the
Project's capacity building activities and establishing the procedures and guidelines for
the NYF. Similarly, the Directorate o f Youth will play a key role inthe strengthening o f
youth centers (Sub-component B).

69.     The existing LDP within M S A T M already includes a Project Management Unit
(LDP-PMU). Keeping with the project's aim to utilize existing systems and structures,
the LDP-PMUwill take primaryresponsibility for coordinatingthe implementation o fthe
Youth inLocal Development component (Component 2).

70.     The Project also involves a number of joint activities that are related to both
Components 1 and 2. This will largely consist o f engaging the services o f a number o f
consultants and organizations (e.g., the capacity buildingworkshops, MIS Expert, Gender
Advisor). The TWG will take responsibility for coordinating the implementation o f these
activities.

71.      Operations Manual. The TWG, under the guidance o f the Project Steering
Committee and with assistance from the Bank, will prepare the Operations Manual for
the Project. The respective departments will also prepare guidelines for relevant
activities. The completion o f an Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank will be a
condition o fproject effectiveness.

ProjectCosts and Financing

72.      The estimated project costs and Bank financing are detailed in the table below.
The Bank will finance 100 percent of eligible expenditures under the Grant. The GoTL
has indicated it will contribute by funding at least $2.5 million in terms o f in-kind
contributions and funding for the NYF. This contribution i s not considered co-financing
for the Project, as it is an estimate and will be subject to the government's annual budget
priorities.




                                              16

 EstimatedProjectCost by Component
                                                                                IDA
 Component 1:Operationalizingthe Nyp
  Sub-component A: Institutional Strengthening                                   430,000
  Sub-component B: StrengtheningYouth Centers                                      90,000
                                                                Sub-Total:       520,000
 Component 2: Youth inLocalDevelopment
  Sub-component A: Youth Development Grants                                     1,100,000   .
  Sub-component B: Youth Facilitators and Capacity Building                      207,000
  Sub-component C: Project Implementationand Technical Support                   291,000
                                                                Sub-Total:      1,598,000
                                                          TotalBaseCosts        2,118,000
                                                     Physical Contingencies:            0
                                                       Price Contingencies:             0
                                                                   TOTAL:       2,118,000

FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements

73.     Overall financial management o f funds under the proposed project will be the
responsibility o f the Directorate o f Administration and Finance within the Ministry o f
State Administration and Territorial Management (MSATM). The Ministry o f Finance
M o F (Treasury) o f the Government o f Timor-Leste will provide the necessary support for
processing o f payments and withdrawal applications. M S A T M will initiate all requests
for payments including those project costs that support the Secretary o f State for Youth
and Sport (SSYS). The Technical Working Group (TWG) will ensure close coordination
betweenthe two government departmentsinthe processing o f these payments.

74.     The M S A T Mwill open a Designated Account (DA) denominated inU S dollars at
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The DA will be solely usedto finance eligible
project expenditures. Disbursement will use traditional disbursement methods: direct
payments, reimbursements or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The Project will also
utilize two mechanisms for disbursing the Youth Grants. More details on financial
management and disbursement arrangements can be found inAnnex 4.

ProcurementArrangements

75.     The Directorate o f Administration and Finance within M S A T M (DAF-MSATM)
will carry out procurement activities for the project. The Directorate o f Administration
and Financewithin the SSYS will work closely with the DAF-MSATM.

76.     The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Simplified Procurement Plan (SPP) for
the first six months o f the Project. This plan has been agreed between the Recipient and
the Task Team. The procurement plan will be updated in agreement with the Project
Team semi-annually, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements in institutional capacity. For more detail on the procurement
arrangements, including the SPP, see Annex 5.


                                             17

ProjectSupervision

77.     The Project is a substantial risk operation (see risks section below). This therefore
requires close Bank supervision and assistance, particularly inthe first year o f operation.
Bank budget supervision costs are expected at $120,000 in the first year o f the Project,
declining to US$85,000 thereafter.

78.      Consistent with OP/BP 8.00 procedures, the Task Team and the local country
office will provide close implementation support, particularly with respect to financial
management, procurement and project management. It is expected that Bank supervision
would be conducted initially on a quarterly basis and subsequently as needed (expected
two-three times per year). Fiduciary staff located in the Sydney office are accessible for
bothregular and formal supervision as required.

79.      The Task Team also anticipates undertaking a mid-term review before December
2009 to assess progress made, and to initiate adjustments, as needed.

MonitoringandEvaluation

80.      The successful implementation o f robust a monitoring and evaluation framework
i s crucial for the overall success o f the Project. This i s the case for any Project but it is
particularly so given the Project's effort to test innovative approaches that may later be
scaled up by government. The appraisal mission included a monitoring and evaluation
expert and involved development o f a results framework, and conducting a monitoring
and evaluation assessment. The assessment included an assessment o f past experience
and capacity o f MSATM and SSYS to implement rigorous monitoring and evaluation.
Overall, the assessment indicated that capacity was low. For more detail on the
assessment see Annex 6. The result framework andM&E tools are provided inAnnex 2.

81.      Appraisal also identified a preliminary strategy for ensuring the design and
implementation o f a simple yet robust M&E system. This includes the following: (i)         the
World Bank will provide technical expertise in the detailed design o f a suitable M&E
Framework (Annex 2 lists the relevant Project indicators and outlines the M&E tools that
will be utilized); (ii) implementation o f monitoring and evaluation will be split, with
                       the
the government taking responsibility for the implementation o f monitoring and process
evaluation and the Bank (in close association with government) for impact evaluation;
(iii) supervisionmissionswillincludeamonitoringandevaluationexpertwhowill
      Bank
provide ongoing support during the Project, but particular inthe first year as the systems
are put in place; (iv) the Project will include funds for engaging an international
consultant who will design and establish an M I S within both the M S A T M and SSYS-
work will start once there i s a draft Operations Manual for the Project; (v) the M&E
system for the Youth in Local Development component will be fully integrated in
MSATM's LDP M&E system (consultants co-funded by UNCDF and WB will be hired
to develop the integrated MIS, a joint complaints handling mechanism, and community
scorecard guidelines),      (vi) the Framework will draw upon the findings and
recommendations o f planned ESW work that will include a review o f monitoring and



                                               18

evaluation systems usedby community-driven development projects inTimor-Leste; and,
(vii) the M&E Framework will utilize both quantitative and qualitative research methods
giventhe nature o f the Project.

82.       The Project's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Framework will be detailed in
an annex o fthe Operations Manual.

ProjectTimeline

83.      The Project will be implemented over three years. It is expected to close on
December 31 2011.

F.          ProjectRisks andMitigatingMeasures

84.       The overall net risk after instituting risk mitigation measures is considered
substantial. While the project designhas been kept fairly modest and flexible enough to
accommodate and mitigate specific project risks, the potential of political and social
instability and security risks remain high, and may have a significant impact on project
implementation. Despite the various challenges, the project has the potential to generate
highreturns and lessons for future operations. For a table detailing financial management
risk, see Annex 4.


     RiskFactor        Risk
                      Level                               Mitigation Measures


 Country - political    H     While the project aims to contribute positively towards youth
 and social                   development by helping to address underlying social stability there will
 instability and              remain the risk o f insecurity and political instability which may interfere
 security risks               with community-based activities.


 Institutional          S     The project will have one main counterpart, the Ministry o f State
                              Administration and Territorial Management (MSATM), however it will
                              include components that engage both the M S A T M and the Secretariat o f
                              State for Youth and Sports (SSYS). This arrangement will increase the
                              complexity o f implementation. The risk will be mitigated by ensuring
                              that the project design is consistent with the technical, institutional and
                              financial capabilities o f the implementing agencies; as well as identifying
                              gaps (fiduciary and capacity building assessments) and strengthening
                              areas (institutions, procedures and systems) that need to be corrected
                              prior to, and during, implementation. In addition, there will be clearly
                              delineated guidelines on the relationship between the two institutions,
                              especially vis-&vis financing, reporting, and implementation.


 Implementation -       S     SSYS has indicated its preference for integrating the implementation o f
 zapacity and                 its components o f the project in the existing structure o f the organization
 financial related            instead o f establishing a separate PMU. The risk will be mitigated by
 risks                        technical assistance, training and well defined arrangements in project
                              management, procurement, financial management, supervision and




                                                 19

                        S     The MSATM's local government platform (Le. LDP) has disbursed
                              block grants to districts but there are risks o f administrative delays inthe
                              disbursement o f the youth grants as these will increase the workload.
                              Increasing the capacity and resources o f the LDP-PMU and the DATs at
                              M S A T M to ensure that there is adequate understanding o f procedures
                              and regulations will mitigate this risk.


 Technical              S     The recipients ofthe youth grants-whether        they be youth groups, youth
                               organizations, youth centers or rural village youth-will     require various
                               degrees o f technical skills depending on the projects prioritized by the
                              NYF (Component 1) and selected by the youth themselves (Component
                              2). There is a risk that these groups will not have the technical capacity
                              to produce quality outputs. The Project includes a number o f
                              mechanisms to ensure that technical assistance i s              available to
                              beneficiaries: (a) Youth Facilitators will provide technical support; (b)
                              the Project will engage outreach organizations and NGOs who will
                              provide technical support on demand; (c) the Project will engage an
                              organization or NGO experienced in the management o f youth centers;
                              (d) the Project will draw upon the LDP's existing Planning and
                              Implementing Committees (PICs); and (e) the Project will draw uponthe
                              technical skills o f the Community Development Officers (CDOs)
                               stationed at the sub-district-level,



 Elite Capture          S     There exists a possibility inthe current context o f elite capture o f Project
                              finds, specifically the Youth Development Grants. This is could be due
                              to economic factors, encouraged by the general lack o f development
                              programming at the suco level, cultural norms that establish a local
                              political elite, as well as politicization o f village life. The Project will
                              include a number o f mitigating measures, which includes the adoption o f
                              participatory youth consultations at the local-level, socialization o f the
                              Project through channels outside the formal village councils, complaints
                              handling and social accountability. The Task Team together with the
                              P M U will closely monitor this risk during supervision missions and will
                              develop firther measuresifnecessary.


 OverallRating                Substantial




G.      Terms and Conditionsfor ProjectFinancing

85.     The Project will financed by an IDA Grant.

86.     The completion o f an Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank will be a
condition o fproject effectiveness.




                                                 20

       ANNEX 1: DETAILEDDESCRIPTIONOF PROJECT COMPONENTS

1.       The overall objective o f the YDP i s to promote youth empowerment and inclusion
in development by expanding the capacities of and opportunities for youth groups to
initiate and participate in community and local development initiatives. The YDP i s thus
geared towards mitigating the risk o f youth violence that has been a feature o f Timorese
society since independence. The project will consist o f two components.

2.       The two components andthe mechanisms they deploy to provide opportunities for
youth to participate in community and local development activities are complementary.
The National Youth Fundo f component one will begin by focusing its support for youth
initiatives and youth capacity building in mostly urban and more accessible areas. It i s
anticipated that the NYF will focus on youth groups, youth organizations, and youth
associations, and will be a flexible and particularly effective instrument for targeting
urban and "high risk" youth. The second component will complement the first in the
sense that it will help the SSYS to fulfill its strategy in the NYP o f mobilizing youth to
serve communities by reaching out to youth in rural areas through MSATM's local
government platform. Specifically, the second component will facilitate the participation
o f rural youth in community development activities and local development processes.
Government may later expand these activities to urban areas as part o f the national
expansion o f the LDP.

Component1:Operationalizingthe NationalYouth Policy(approximately $520,000)

3.       This component will support the Secretariat o f State for Youth and Sports (SSYS)
to operationalize the National Youth Policy by: (i)   strengthening its institutional capacity
to develop, implement, coordinate and monitor policy and programs relating to its
mandate, including the establishment o f a unit to administer the National Youth Fund
within SSYS; and, (ii)   enhancing its ability to work with youth groups, organizations and
youth centers, and support youth initiatives. The component will consist o f two sub-
components.

Sub-Comportent A: Institutiona1Strengthening

4.      This sub-component will strengthen the capacity o f the SSYS to develop,
implement and coordinate policy and program relating to its mandate as identified in the
National Youth Policy.

5.      As part o f preparations for the Project, the Task Team engaged a capacity
building expert to conduct a capacity building assessment o f the SSYS and to develop a
strategy for its institutional capacity to implement its mandate. This was conducted in
May 2008 at the same time as the appraisal mission. Preliminary findings o f the
assessment indicate the need to strengthen the SSYS inthe following areas: (i)      fiduciary
capacity, including financial management, procurement/logistics,             accounting and
bookkeeping; (ii)project monitoring; (iii)project management, including project
planning, team building, and team management skills; and, .(iv) coordination and
communication. The assessment will make recommendations for the short- and longer-


                                              21

term, and will also work with the SSYS to establish an organizational arrangement that
will allow it to implement key priorities identified inits Action Plan. A key focus o f the
assessment will be ensuring that the SSYS establishes a balance between its policy
functions and its operational functions, including administrating the NYF.

6.      The preliminary assessment suggests focusing the capacity building o f the SSYS
inthree key areas: (i) overall organizational structure andleadership ofthe SSYS; (ii)
                       the
the policy and administrative capacity required to establish and administer the NYF; and,
(iii)the technical and leadership skills required to facilitate and monitor the
operationalizationo fthe NYF.

Organizational Structure and Leadership

7.      The Project will support the SSYS to conduct regular progress reviews o f its
organizational capacity. This review will benchmark progress in relation to the initial
capacity buildingassessment and help the SSYS to develop a capacity building strategy
for each calendar year. The YDP will support the SSYS to implement a series o f capacity
building trainings, workshops and mentor programs. The initial capacity building
assessment will determine the specific activities for the second-half o f 2008, whereas the
annual progress reviews will determine the activities for 2009 and 2010.

National YouthFund

8.       A capacity building priority is to support the SSYS to establish a unit that will
manage and operationalize the government's National Youth Fund (NYF). The National
Youth Policy (NYP),which was approved by the Council o f Ministers in November
2007, envisages the establishment o f a National Youth Fundto finance the activities and
initiatives o f youth groups and organizations. The SSYS envisions the NYF as building
the capacity o f existing and emerging youth groups to carry out and manage social and
economic development activities. The SSYS aims to target a broad range o f youth groups
through the NYF, including young women's groups, out-of-school youth, and disabled
youth.

9.       In 2008, the State Budget o f Timor-Leste (SBTL) allocated approximately
$800,000 to the NYF. The government indicates that this will be augmented with an
additional $1.8 million in the 2008 mid-year supplemental budget. While the SSYS i s
charged with administering and monitoring the correct use o f these funds, its current
capacity to administer the NYF is limited. There are no fund oversight arrangements,
procedures or systems in place. Given these constraints and logistical challenges, the
SSYS has emphasized the need for a simple framework to guide administration and
disbursement o f the NYF. This will include support for the following activities: (i)
technical assistance for the NYF unit; (ii) refurbishment for the NYF unit; (iii)
                                              office
documentation; as well as (iv) outreach and capacity buildingactivities.

10.      Technical Assistance. The sub-component will support the NYF unit to design,
implement and manage a system to administer NYF grants, as well as to monitor and



                                             22

evaluate grantees' performance. It will support a dedicated team to manage the unit,
coordinate the capacity building activities for grantees, and operate the M&E and MIS
systems.

11.     Office Refurbishment. The SSYS currently lacks office space for the NYF unit.
The sub-component will support the SSYS to refurbish an existing office space and to
provide limited computer and furniture for use by the NYFunit.

12.     Socialization and Documentation. It is crucial that the SSYS promote the NYF,
explain its workings and to document the activities it funds. This can help to ensure
transparency inthe allocation o f funds. This sub-component will support the NYF unit to
design and produce socialization materials for the NYF. It will also support
documentation o f the youth initiatives fundedby the NYF.

13.     Outreach and Capacity Buildinn, The SSYS recognizes that while many youth
groups may have good ideas for activities they may lack the capacity to clearly articulate
their ideas or to implement these ideas. This sub-component will provide NYF grantees
with training in a number o f areas including proposal writing, budgeting, project
implementation, monitoring, and reporting. This training will focus on learning-by-doing.
The purpose o f this funding i s both to ensure the grants are used productively and to
strengthen youth groups and organizations more generally.

14.     The capacity building will be undertaken by an organization with the necessary
experience in this area, and with the ability to reach youth groups in different regions in
Timor-Leste. The training will commence once the first round of NYF grantees has been
selected and it is envisioned that different modules will be held regularly during the
project period. In addition, the organizations will assist the NYF administration unit to
reach out to youth organizations and distribute socialization materials.

Policy Development and Monitoring
15.     The sub-component will also support the SSYS to design and implement a simple
youth expenditure review o f the government's budget allocations and programming. It
will also assist the SSYS to develop basic M&E skills in order to monitor government
implementation o f the NYP. This will allow the SSYS to review operationalization o f the
NYP and to facilitate coordination o f youth programming across different government
departments. It may also facilitate donor coordination on youth issues by providing
concrete information on the government's current and priority youth programming. It i s
expected that these activities will be a medium-term priority o fthe Project.

16.     The sub-component will finance international and national consultants, as well as
provide funds for the capacity buildingactivities.

Sub-Component B: Strengthening Youth Centers

17.     Historically, youth centers in Timor-Leste have played a key role in providing
educational and social spaces for youth as well as children. These facilities are often run



                                             23

by local organizations or community members and may provide activities such as literacy
training, sports events, andor conflict resolution training. The preliminary findings o f a
recently completed youth center review has indicated that while there are a number o f
youth centers playing critical roles in providing forums for youth engagement with
communities, many o f them are unable to fbnction efficiently as a result of poor
management and inadequate finding for core costs. The overall goal o f this sub-
component would be to strengthen the capacity o f the SSYS to support youth centers.
This would involve two main activities under the Project:

18.     Capacity building; and mentoring for vouth centers. SSYS would engage a local
organization experienced in the management o f youth centers. This organization will
organize regular capacity building workshops and provide mentoring for a limited
number o f youth center staff. This may include financial management, administration,
andproposal writing. The youth centers would be chosen based on agreed-upon criteria,
including interest, youth participation in the youth center, and the history o f conflict in
the vicinity o f the youth center. This sub-component could also support the strengthening
o f youth associations. This activity would commence no later than October 2008 and
would span the three-year project period.

19.     Financial support for vouth centers. In addition to capacity building and
mentoring, the SSYS through the NYF may finance the rehabilitation and the provision
o f relevant content for youth centers. The exact mechanisms for providing this support,
and the eligible and ineligible expenditures would be clearly delineated by the SSYS. The
youth center review that is currently underway with Bank support would assist the SSYS
to develop a strategy for providing and monitoring these funds. The Project will also
finance capacity buildingand mentoring for youth centers. The SSYS, through the NYF,
will make available a youth center grant for the core funding and administrative costs o f
select youth centers.

20.     Sub-component B would thus include financing for national consultancies,
including individual (NYF unit staff) and firms (capacity buildingworkshops), as well as
a modest amount for goods and works.

Component2: Youth for LocalDevelopment(approximately$1.6 million)

21.     This component will support the SSYS and M S A T M to establish a mechanism to
identify and distribute small grants to youth in rural villages (sucos) and hamlets
(aldeias) via the MSATM's local government platform.

22.     The Project will provide support for implementation o f the component in five
districts o f Timor-Leste over the three-year project period (years one to three). Each
district would be eligible for a minimum o f two cycles o f funding. The implementation
would be phased. The table below summarizes the proposed number o f districts, grant
amounts, phasing and total number o f participating suco. The additional districts inyears
two and three would be determined at a later point based on consideration o f need, local
capacity and geographicalbalance.



                                             24

                     Year 1           IYear2             Year 3           I Year4
     Districts       Lautem           ILautem            Lautem           I Lautem
                     Bobonaro          Bobonaro          Bobonaro           Bobonaro
                                       District 3                           District 3
                                       District 4                           District 4
                                                                            District 5
                                                                            TBD
     # of sue0       84 Suco           144 Suco          173 Suco           TBD
     Total Grants    $250,000          $400,000          $465,000           TBD

23.    The districts for year one have been chosen in consultation with M S A T M and
SSYS. These are districts inwhich LDP has been operating the longest. Districts that will
be included subsequent to Year 1will be determinedbased on further consultations.

24.    The component will consist o fthree sub-components.

Sub-Component A: Youth Grants

25.    This component will distribute earmarked grants for youth initiatives at the suco
level through the LDP system. The grants will be allocated based on total population so
as to ensure fairness. The amount allocated will be approximately $1-80per person. This
will results in grants o f approximately $2,200 to $5,000 depending on the size o f the
suco.

26.    Village youth would identify and prioritize youth activities themselves. The
Youth Representatives on the Suco Council will be charged with convening meetings
within the village youth to identify and prioritize youth activities. These meetings would
be conducted according to process guidelines outlined in the Operations Manual of the
Project. These process guidelines would be based on principles o f participation, broad
representation, gender equity and transparency. They would provide guidance on the
minimumnumber o f meetings to beheld, the minimumquorum acceptable for meetings,
and the composition o f meetings. They would also provide direction to ensure that the
final decision-making on the use o f the grants was driven by youth.

27.    The type o f sub-projects for which the grants could be used would be left fairly
open. Activities that may benefit youth or activities that may benefit entire communities
would be eligible for consideration. However, there will be a negative list o f sub-projects
that will not be eligible for funding. To ensure consistency, this negative list will include
sub-projects that are likely to have adverse social and environmental impacts. It i s
anticipated that youth sub-projects may include the construction andor maintenance o f
small infrastructure such as footpaths and community sporting fields. They may also
include livelihood activities such as masonry facilities.

28.    Sub-project proposals prepared by youth at the suco level would then be included
inthe proposals that are submitted to the SDA. It is expected that youth will provide a
minimum of two proposals that would then be presented to the Suco Council. As with



                                             25

other sub-projects screened at the suco level, these proposals will be subject to screening
and consolidation, and youth from each suco would be given an opportunity to present
their proposals to the SDA and take part in the assemblies' discussions. Sub-projects
selected will be those that can be implemented by youth at the suco level.

29.     Similar to the NYF, youth will implement the successful sub-projects themselves.
Youth at the suco level would form a Youth Implementation Team (YIT), which will be
responsible for coordinating the implementation o f village's approved youth sub-project.
The YIT would consist o f youth from the suco and will be supported by Youth
Facilitators (see Sub-component B below) and LDP technical staff. The YIT would
identify youth to provide labor and source materials, and provide a timeline for
implementing the project. To foster ownership, youth would be encouraged to provide in-
kind donations, such as labor, materials, etc. This will be detailed in the Operations
Manual.

30.     To ensure transparency and accountability, the YIT would be requiredto: (i)    post
inapublic placethe amount ofmoneyreceived from the project and the expenses; (ii)         to
hold a public meeting at the suco to discuss the progress o f the sub-project
implementation and to detail how the funds have been used; and, (iii)       work with suco
council members to ensure that the sub-project i s carried out as planned.

Sub-Component B: Youth Facilitators and Capacity Building

31.     This sub-component will provide support to train and staff a corps o f Youth
Facilitators (YF) that will support implementation o f the component's activities at the
village level. This includes socialization o f the project to suco youth, youth consultation
meetings, and support YITs in the implementation o f youth sub-projects. The training
will provide skills such as moderating meetings, conducting participatory planning, and
developing proposals. It i s anticipated that one YF will be assigned to each sub-district
participating in the Project, although this will be subject to workload considerations in
larger sub-districts.

32.     The sub-component will also provide support for capacity buildingworkshops to
be held for the YITs. These workshops will assist the YITs to develop and refine their
proposals, plan sub-project implementation, develop their finance skills, learn about the
need to limit and mitigate adverse social and environmental impacts, and ensure that at
least one member o f each YIT i s trained in the project's basic financial reporting
obligations. The Youth Representatives, both o f which will be a member o f the YIT, will
participateinthis workshop.

33.     The Project would include financing for the youth facilitators (national
consultants), their expenses and transportation, and the contracting o f the services o f a
capacity building organization. The capacity buildingworkshops will be implemented by
the same organization that facilitates the NYF's capacity building workshops for youth
grantees.




                                             26

Sub-component C: Program Implementation and Technical Support

34.     This sub-component will augment the project implementation capacity o fthe LDP
system. The planning and grant disbursement mechanism that LDP provides i s currently
managed by a series o f institutions at the central-, district-, and sub-district-level. The
system also engages with the Suco Councils at the village-level. This includes: a Project
Management Unit (PMU) at central-level, a District Assembly (DA) and District
Administration Treasury (DAT) at the district-level; a Sub-District Assembly (SDA),
Planning and Implementation Committee (PIC), a Local Oversight Committee (LOC),
Verification and Appraisal Team (VAT), a Community Development Officer (CDO), and
a Sub-District Finance Team (SDFT) at the sub-district-level.

35.     More specifically, the sub-component will support three main activities: (i)
project management; (ii)  technical assistance; and, (iii)
                                                        socialization and documentation.

36.     Project Implementation. The sub-component will support M S A T M to augment
the LDP's existing Project Management Unit (PMU). This would enable the PMU to
coordinate the implementation o f the component, including working on the design,
implementation o f the training, coordination o f the grant disbursal, and resolve
implementations issues as they occur. This would include a program manager, two
training coordinators, and a M I S coordinator.

37.     Technical Assistance. The sub-component will support M S A T M to engage
technical assistance inthe design and establishment o f the mechanism whereby the youth
development grants will be distributedvia the LDP system. This will include support for
a training expert, an M&E and M I S expert, and a gender advisor.

38.     Socialization and Documentation. Similar to Sub-Component B o f Component 1,
this sub-component will support PMU to design and produce socialization materials for
the youth development grants. It will also support documentation o f the sub-projects
implemented by the YITs. This activity will be undertaken in conjunction with
Component 1.

39.     Under this sub-component the Project would provide finances for international
and national consultants, as well as for goods and works. Some o f these activities,
specifically socialization, documentation and capacity building, would be undertaken
jointly with the SSYS.




                                            27

                ANNEX 2: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING

 1. The expected outcomes and outputs of the Project are summarized in the following
     table:

PDO                             Project OutcomeIndicators                      Use of Project Outcome
                                                                               Information

The overall objective ofthe     % change infemale andmale youth from           Assess improvements in
YDP i s to promote youth        targeted communities who feel that there       youth empowerment and
 empowerment and inclusion      are more opportunities for youth               inclusion
 indevelopment byexpanding      participationincommunity and local
the capacities o f and          development
 opportunities for youth
 groups to initiate and         % change infemale and male youth from
participate incommunity and     targeted communities who participate in
 local development initiatives. planning andmanaging community
                                development activities inurban and rural
                                areas

                                ImprovedSSYS performance ratings

IntermediateOutcomes            Intermediate Outcome Indicators                Use     of    Intermediate
                                                                               Outcome Information

SSYS provides leadership to     % change in the execution of programmed To provide essential input
implement       the   National  state budget for youth programs                to all relevant stakeholders
Youth Policy                                                                   about implementation o f
                                % of National Youth Fund disbursed to          National Youth Policy, and
                                youth groups                                   needfor adjustments

                                Monitoring System o f SSYS designed and
                                functioning


Targeted     Youth     Centers  % change in female and male youth Assess responsiveness o f
provide services that respond   attending activities at targeted youth centers Youth Centers to youth
to demands o f youth                                                           priorities
                                % of female and male users satisfied with
                                the services provided by targeted Youth
                                Centers


Local government provides a     % change of female and male youth              Assess responsiveness o f
platform        for      youth  participating in local organizations        in Youth Grants to       youth
engagement in local and         targeted communities                           priorities
community         development
initiatives that address their  % of female and male youth in targeted
priority concerns               sucos satisfied with the good and services
                                delivered through the youth grants

                                % of initiatives funded through Youth
                                Grants that continue after funding expires




                                                     28

              *z
              5
              3E
               I
              m
              ?-
              rA
              m




         W




         g
         N




2
1
4   0
    0    0    N0
p1

          3E    3E
           l     I
          m
          *     m
          m     &
          m     WY




                      -4         -4
                   I,         I,
                     3-
                      s          .$
                                 s
                      3         3



                      a          a
                                       0
                                       m
          g     g
4         m
          +     W




                       I    I     I




                            I




          0     0     0




     cc
     0

2.      The suggested tools are listed below. As mentioned, a detailed M&E Framework
will be annexed to the Operations Manual.

3.      Impact Evaluation. The task team is in the process o f securing external hnding
for a rigorous impact evaluation. The Youth and CDD TF and UNCDF have committed
funding that would partially cover the costs o f the impact evaluation. The team will also
explore other options including the Spanish Impact Evaluation Fund. Quantitative
baseline and follow up surveys will be conducted, as well as in-depth qualitative
research. Such a study would focus on research questions relating to impacts on poverty,
income generation, migration, social cohesion, youth exclusion, local governance and
social capital. The impact evaluation will draw as much as possible on a number o f
surveys that have been completed including (i) 2007 Living Standards Measurement
                                                     the
Survey, (ii) 2004 National census, (iii) 2006 Ainaro, Manatuto, and Oecusse
               the                                 the
Community Activation Project Baseline surveys o f suco chiefs and Self Help Groups,
(iv) baseline data collected by the Local Development Program, and (v) the 2003
Demographic and Health Survey.

4.       Community Score Cards and other Community Participatory Monitoring. The
program will implement Community Score Cards as a way for youth to monitor and
improve performance o f Youth Centers through agreed action plans. Inaddition, program
staff will regularly conduct open village meetings in program locations to receive input
andsuggestions onproject implementation. Prior to program implementationthe program
staff will also provide basic training on what to monitor and how. These community
meetings aim to provide community members to voice their experiences, good and bad,
with the project.

5.      Youth Organization / NGO Monitoring. The program will make use o f the
outreach and capacity buildingorganizations andNGOsto monitor implementation o fthe
activities funded under both component one and two. These groups would also assist to
resolve and not just report problems.

6.      Management Information Systems (MIS). Information relating to inputs, outputs
and some outcomes o f activities hnded under the project's two components will be input
and organized in a computerized Management Information System (MIS). The program
staff at the district, sub-district and village-level will be responsible for the collection and
collation o f data relating to the components.

7.      Complaints Handling. The Project will establish complaints handlingsystems and
guidelines for receiving, resolving, and tracking complaints related to the project.
Separate complaints handling systems will be established for the two components. The
project implementation teams for each component will be required to regularly report on
complaints, their resolution status and resolution outcomes so as to ensure transparency.

8.      Financial Audits. The constitution o f Timor-Leste allots the function o f external
audit to the High Administrative, Tax and Audit Court. As this institution remains to be



                                                31

created, the function o f external audit i s for the time being assigned to the MoF which
discharges its responsibilities through the contracting o f external audit services. There
will be an annual independent external audit o f program's financial performance and
financial position. The M S A T M may additionally make use o f its internal audit staff
member to review procedures.

9.     Thematic Studies. Thematic studies will be commissioned as necessary, and could
include: a review o f infrastructure, economic costhenefit analysis, a socialization review,
a gender review, a review o f program training, or a review o f facilitation. With the
exception o f the gender and capacity buildingreviews, the task team would seek external
funding for these thematic studies. In addition, the program will introduce cutting edge
qualitative methods for the study o f youth, such as the Participatory Ethnographic
Evaluation and Research (PEER) methods which the Empowerment Team inthe Poverty
Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) unit o f the Bank has piloted for youth
violence inJamaica.




                                              32

            ANNEX 3: SUMMARYOFESTIMATEDPROJECTCOSTS
                                         (InU.S. Dollars)

 Estimated Project Cost by Component
    No.     Object of Contract                                                         IDA
 Component 1:Operationalizing the NYP
Sub-component A: Institutional Strenqtheninq
    1.A.1   Annual capacity building review                                             40,000
    1.A.2   Capacity building activities                                                165,000
    1.A.3   Youth public expendidure analysis                                            31,000
    1.A.4   Policy Advice, Implementation Support, Technical Assistance                 172,000
    1.A.5   Office refurbishment, equipment and incremental operating costs              22,000
Sub-component B: Strengtheninq Youth Centers
     1.8.1 Capacity building and mentoring for youth centers                             90,000
                                                                        Sub-Total:     520,000
 Component 2: Youth in Local Development
 Sub-component A: Youth Development Grants
    2.A.1   Youth Development Grants                                                  1,100,000
 Sub-component B: Youth Facilitatorsand Capacity Building
    2.8.1   Youth Facilitators                                                          132,000
    2.8.2   Capacity building for village youth groups                                   75,000
 Sub-component C: Project Implementationand Technical Support
    2.C.1   Policy Advice, Implementation Support, Technical Assistance                 190,000
    2.C.2   Transportation, Training, and incremental operating costs                   101,000
                                                                        Sub-Total:   1,598,000
                                                                 Total Base Costs    2,118,000
                                                             Physical Contingencies:          0
                                                               Price Contingencies:           0
                                                                            TOTAL:   2,118,000



1.      The estimated project costs will be funded from the IDA grant. The government
will fund discrete activities that are linked to the project, but this arrangement will not
involve a co-financing or counter-part financing arrangement.

2.      The MSATMand SSYS have indicated they would contribute approximately $2.5
million to activities linked to the Project. The majority o f these funds are allocated to the
National Youth Fund (item 1.A.4 above). In addition, the M S A T M has indicated that it
would request additional Youth Development Grants (item 2.A.1) should the Project be
successful in the initial pilot districts. These contributions will be both cash-which      will
include funds from SBTL 2008, 2009 and 2010-and              in-kindcontributions that will be
made through the Project's utilization of existing govemment permanent and temporary
staff, equipment, office space, andincremental operating costs.




                                                 33

         ANNEX 4: FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENT
                                     ARRANGEMENTS

1.      This report summarizes the financial management arrangements in place for the
proposed Timor-Leste Youth Development Project. The scope o f the work i s set out in
the "Financial Management Practices in World Bank-Financed Investment Operations"
issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on November 3, 2005. Under the
Bank's OP/BP 10.02 with respect to projects financedby the Bank, the borrower andthe
project implementing agencies are required to maintain financial management systems -
including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems - adequate to ensure that
they can provide the Bank with accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures.

2.      The overall Financial Management (FM) risk assessment for this project i s
substantial based on the FMassessment o f the capacity o f the implementing agencies, the
total financial commitment to the program, the structure and complexity of the project
and in particular the disbursement of district Youth Development Grants at a district
level. The financial management arrangements proposed will meet the minimum
requirements o f the Bank.

ImplementingEntity

3.      The most effective way to facilitate the objectives o f this project is through using
the Directorate o f Administration and Finance within the Ministry o f State
Administration and Territorial Management (MSATM) as the implementingagency. The
Ministry o f Finance (Treasury) o f the Government o f Timor-Leste will provide the
necessary support for processing o fpayments and withdrawal applications.

4.      M S A T M will initiate all requests for payments and maintain the financial records
for the project. MSATM will also initiate requests for payments on behalf o f the
Secretariat o f State for Youth and Sport (SSYS). The Technical Working Group (TWG),
which consists of the representatives from M S A T M and SSYS, will ensure close
coordination between the two government departments in the processing o f these
payments  .

5.      The number o f contracts and volume o f transactions generated from the IDA grant
is expected to be low relative to the current workload and capacity o f the Directorate o f
Administration and Finance (MSATM) at the central level, and therefore should not
present a burden on the project management resources available however this will need to
be monitored and project funds may be required to assist the Directorate if the financial
records are not maintained. The Directorate o f Administration and Finance will need to
nominate an employee within the Directorate who has primary responsibility for
maintenance o f the project's financial records




                                               34

RiskAnalysis

6.       The table below gives details o f the financial management risk assessment for the
program any mitigating measures proposedor already put into place.

                  Risk                     Risk      Risk Mitigation Measures           Risk afler Mitigation
                                          Rating     IncorporatedintoProject            Conditionof
                                        (H,S,M,L) Design                                Negotiation, Board
                                                                                        or Effectiveness
1. CountryLevel

1.1 Country Public Financial            High         More frequent supervisory          Substantial
Management Systems                                   missions.

Although there are many positive
signs overall capacity remains weak
and with a recent change in
government the reformeffort may be
delayed. The security status remains as
a concern and could impact on the
availability o f expatriate staff (who
provide the core o f services inthe
MinistryofFinance).

The recent change ingovernment has
delayed reform and ledto changes o f
staff insenior positions within the
Ministries

1.2 Country Portfolio Indicators        High          More frequent supervisory         Substantial
                                                      missions.
Timor-Leste has two portfolio flags at
present:

Country Environment
Country Record

2. Entity Level -Ministry of StateAdministration and Territorial Management (MSATM)

2.1. The Ministry o f State             Substantial   M S A T M will be responsible for Substantial
Administration and Territorial                        the payment o f all non direct
Management i s the implementing                      payments for project activities.
agency for this project. The Ministry                 Hence all documentation will be
has hadprevious experience                            independentlyscrutinizedbefore
administering a UNDP project and                     payment i s made. MoF will also
was responsible for the preparation o f              be a signatory for all Withdrawal
reports for this project. Neither Staff               Applications. (WAS)
nor the Ministryhave experience as
implementing agency for any World
Bank projects.




                                                 35

3. ProjectLevel

3.1 Project Size

Approximately USD 2.1 millionover      Modest      Quarterly FinancialMonitoring    Low
a 3 year period through one                        Reports will be required.
implementing agency.

3.2 ProgramComplexity

There are two components; however
the relationship between the           High        The project includes a Steering  Substantial
implementing agency and the                        Committee with representatives
Secretariat o f State for Youth and                fromboth agencies to oversee
Sports, (SSYS) which will determine                implementation. Inaddition a
how some o f the funds will be spent,              Technical Working Group will
has the potential for misunderstanding             also provide coordination
their respective roles. Inaddition                 between the M S A T M and SSYS.
Component 2 includes $1.1 million o f              A grant operating manualis
Youth Development Grants that will                 prepared that will outline the FM
be disbursed through District Bank                 requirements for the program is
Accounts. The total number o f grants              required before effectiveness.
could be around 450.

OVERALLINHERENTRISK                    Substantial

CONTROL RISK

1 Funds Flow
The M o F has experience inoperating   Modest      Fundswill flow through a         Modest
WB projects using similar funds flow               designated account managed by
processes.                                         the MSATM.

There are two expenditure categories
which increases the complexity o f
WAS.


2 Budgeting
M S A T M has experience inthe         Substantial Regular supervisory visits from   Modest
preparation and monitoring o f budgets             FMS.
within its ownMinistry.
                                                   The annual procurement plan
                                                   will formthe basis o fthe budget.




                                                36

3 Accounting

3.1 Capacity o f Program Management     Substantial Youth Facilitators will be          Substantial
and FM Staff                                        employed through the project in

The MSATM have experience inboth                    each district where Youth

preparing documentation for Ministry                Development Grants are

expenditure and maintaining financial               provided and their role will

records for a UNCDF/UNDP project.                   include providing assistanceto
                                                    the District and grant recipients
There is evidence of reasonable                     on financial issues.
capacity o f the staff and sufficient
skilledstaff to avoid unduereliance on
one person.                                         Regular FMS supervisory visits.

There is some doubt over the MSATM
capacity (both inskills andresources)
to ensure adequateFMcontrols over
the Youth Development Grants

3.2 Accounting Systems                  Modest      Staff will maintain spreadsheets Low

MSATM will prepare documentation                    to   monitor       the   flow    o f
                                                    transactions and reconcile these
for the project costs and submit to                 back to the Freebalance reports.
MOF for payment. These transactions
will be entered into the Freebalance                Staff have experience with this
and reports provided to MSATM.                      process through their Ministry
                                                    expenditure.
There is arisknot all transactions will
be recorded correctly into Freebalance.             Regular       FMS       supervision
                                                    missions    to ensure     adequate
                                                    maintenance o f internal controls

3.3 Accounting for Youth                High        An Operations Manual for the        Substantial
Development grants                                  Project acceptable to the World

Grants will be provided to prioritized              Bank will outline the procedures
                                                    for the accountability o f these
village youth activities through Youth
Implementation teams. Funds will be                 funds.

managed through the District                        All payments from the District
Administration Treasury ineach                      bank accounts to be made by
district. This is procedurally complex              cheque where practicable.
and there i s limited capacity at a
district level.                                      Youth facilitators will support
                                                    the process.

                                                    The project will also fund a
                                                    Finance Officer to each DAT
                                                    involved       in     the    Youth
                                                    Development Grants to support
                                                    the district level transaction.




                                                 37

4 Financial Reporting
Reporting will be required by            Substantial Requirement for quarterly         Modest
component, sub component, category                   financial reports.
and district for the Youth
Development Grants.                                  Employment o f finance office in
                                                     each district to provide
T o facilitate these arrangements need               assistance for the M S A T M
to be entered into with M o F to                     obtaining information from the
determine the level o f detail that can              districts.
be provided by these reports.

Spreadsheets will be required to
monitor district expenditure on Youth
Development grants.

5 Internal Controls
The   GoTL has well documented           Modest      Regular F M S supervision         Low
processes      and    procedures     with            missions to ensure adequate
adequate segregation o f duties. These               maintenance o f internal controls
are reflected inthe MSATM.

There i s an internal auditor employed
bythe M S A T M butthere was no
evidence of an organized audit work
plan.

6Auditing
Project funds will be subject to annual  Low         Financial statements     will be  Low
financial audits and will be audited                 prepared by the M S A T M based
separate fromthe GoTL accounts.                      on the reports generated through
This will be carried out by an external              Freebalance.
auditor selected through a tender
process by the government.

CONTROL RISK                             Substantial                                   Modest

OVERALLRISKRATING                        Substantial                                   Substantial




FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

7.         The disbursement arrangements will allow the program to use all o f the following
methods: (a) advances into and replenishment o f the Designated Account, (b) direct
payment from the grant/TF account, (c) special commitment and (d) reimbursement.
Direct payments may be usedfor payment on large expatriate technical advisor contracts
and the minimum threshold for these payments is $20,00OUSD. This is subject to the
IDA'Sno objection prior to signature onthe contract.

8.         M S A T M will open a Designated Account (DA) denominated in US dollars at a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The DA will be solely usedto finance eligible




                                                  38

project expenditures. The ceiling o f the advance to the DA i s $200,000. The supporting
documents required for withdrawal applications are definedinthe Disbursement Letter.

9.       The IDA Grant will be segregated and fhding used to finance a discrete set o f
activities. This allows the disbursement percentage for the grant to be set at 100percent.
Hence the activities funded through IDA are not dependent for execution on any
government contribution. Two disbursement categories are proposed with expenditure
eligibility being defined interms o f the agreed activity plan.


                                                        Amount Of the
                                   Amount of the            Financing       Percentageof the
           Category             FinancingAllocated                           Expendituresto
                                 (expressedinSDR)         (expressedin
                                                             Allocated         befinanced
                                                               USD)         (inclusive of tax)




 (2) Consultant services,
 Goods, works project
 training, Incremental                630,000                                     100%

 operational costs


 TotalAmount                         1,300,000               2,118,000
Note: Calculationsare basedon a SDR-USDof 1.62976as at April 30, 2008.


10.      The Project will endeavor to limit incremental operating expenses. Project
estimates indicate that they should be limited about 2 percent o f total IDA Grant hnds.
These expenses will be strictly limited to incremental operating costs directly associated
with the Project,        which would include communications,           utilities, stationary,
transportation, accommodation and allowances. Other costs incurred by the M S A T M in
implementing the Project will be considered in-kindcontributions o f the government, and
will not becharged to the DA.

Budget

11.      For the IDA funding the annual procurement plan will form the basis for the
preparation o f the program budget. The implementing agency will be requiredto prepare
a budget that would allow for the identification o f budget allocations at a component, sub
component and category level.


                                             39

AccountingandReporting

12.     The project will use the same accounting procedures as operating for the
MSATM. This will be subject to agreement by the M o F as they will need to modify
Freebalance chart o f accounts to identify this as a separate reporting entity. IDA funding
should be reported separately from any government contributions. M S A T M will prepare
and collate the documentation ready for payment and impute it into Freebalance (the
GoTL accounting system). Reports generated from Freebalance that will inpart meet the
reporting requirements.

13.     While not requiring a parallel accounting system the M S A T M will need to keep
supplementary systems that enables the project to:

     0  Reconcile against Freebalance the documentation sent to M o F (this i s already
        done for Ministryexpenditure)

        Monitoringo f contracts

     0  Cash forecasting (for Withdrawal Applications)
     0  Youth development grants.

14.     The MSATM is required to provide interimun-audited quarterly financial (IFRs)
within 45 days o f the end o f the reporting period. As the IFR will also be used as a
monitoring tool, it should report project progress with adequate description and
explanation and analysis o f variances. Reporting will be on a component, subcomponent
and category level. A consolidationof such reports at the end o fthe fiscal year may form
the basis o f annual project financial statements that will be subject to an audit.

15.     The M S A T M will need to ensure there are procedures inplace to capture within
the project's reports any direct payments.

DisbursementandReportingof Youth DevelopmentGrants

16.     The District Administration Treasury (DAT) in each district, which already
mairpains accounting records for the LDP sub-district and districts grants, will also
maintain records for the Youth Development Grants although the ultimate accountability
o f funds will still rest with the MSATM. The grant recipients will be required to keep a
simple cash book and accompanying documentation and this would be a prerequisite
measure o fprogress o f the grant for eligibility for additional tranches.
                                                *
17.     Funds will be transferred to a separate DAT bank account, from the DA as an
advance, based on the specific requirements o f the transfers to the Youth Development
Grants (i.e. 25% on approval and subsequent payments o f 50% and 25% on progress).
Hence the DATs would need to provide a breakdown o fthe amount required based on the
progress in specific grants. This information can then be used by the MSATM as it i s
required to monitor (in a financial sense) the Youth Development Grants. The DAT bank
account must be a segregated account. All payments by DATs from the bank accounts
will be made by cheque where practicable to ensure an adequate audit trail. DAT will



                                              40

require evidence o f approval before funds are distributed and funds will be provided on
tranche basis. Documentation, which could include receipts, invoices or evidence o f
payment for labor supplied, for the individual grants would need to be retained by the
DAT as the auditor may request accessto these duringthe audit. Eachproject will require
documentation equaling the amount o f expenditure incurred. Any surplus funds at the
completion o f individual projects are required to be returned to the DAT. The
disbursement of grants will increase the workload o f the DAT at the district-level,
particularly as the project is scaled-up in years two and three. This situation will be
mitigated by the employment from project funds o f a finance officer in each DAT
involved in the Youth Development Grants to provide direct assistance and expertise on
the financial obligations to the groups inreceipt o fthe grants. These finance officers will
be employed as the grant process i s rolled out.

18.     An Operations Manual for the Project acceptable to the World Bank will specify
these procedures mentioned above and will be a condition o f effectiveness.

InternalControls

19.     The MSATM has an internal auditor however there is no evidence o f a strong
internal audit program. The GoTL does however have well documented processes and
procedures with adequate segregation o f duties. Regular FMS supervision visits will
ensure adequate internal controls are operatingwithin the project.

Auditing

20.     The constitution o f Timor-Leste allots the function o f external audit to the High
Administrative, Tax and Audit Court. As this institution remains to be created, the
function o f external audit is for the time being assigned to the M o F which discharges its
responsibilities through the contracting o f external audit services. The Government will
fundthe costs ofthe audit through their existing contractual arrangements.

21.     The implementing agency will be required to provide annual audited financial
statements for each fiscal year o f the project. These reports must be received by the
World Bank within 6 months o f the end o f the fiscal year for which the reports have been
audited.

SupervisionPlan

22.     The overall financial management risk rating for the project i s substantial and it i s
envisaged that after the initial implementation period, financial management supervision
missions would be required on a semi annual basis and would be timed to coincide with
the project team supervision missions. Supervision would include visits to districts to
review the disbursement arrangements o f the Youth Development Grants. To minimize
costs the missions would be planned to coincide with financial management supervision
o f other programs inTimor-Leste.




                                             41

23.   In addition the FMS will also, review the financial component of the quarterly
IFRsas soon as they are submittedto the World Bankand review the annual audit reports
and management letters from the external auditors and follow-up on material
accountability issues by engaging with the TTL, Client, and/or auditors.




                                           42

                  ANNEX 5: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

General

1. Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May
2004, and revised in October 2006; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants By World Bank Borrowers dated May 2004, and revised in October 2006,
and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement which takes into consideration the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed
under the Project, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
need for estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Recipient andthe World Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The ProcurementPlanwill be
updated annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity. Since the Project is inresponse to an emergency
situation, OPBP8.OO shall apply, which allows for flexible and simplified procurement
approaches.

2. Procurement o f Good, Non-Consulting Services and Works: Approximately
$180,000 will be made available for goods, works, and other non-consulting services.
This will include but may not be limitedto: (a) socialization materials, such as pamphlets
or posters; (b) refurbishment o f the National Youth Fund unit; and (c) motorbikes for
Youth Facilitators. All contracts are expected to cost less than US$50,000 and as such
would be procured through Shopping. While not identified as necessary at this stage,
goods contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$150,000 and
civil works contract estimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$500,000,
would be procured under National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures (Attachment 1
provides N C B mandatory provisions).

3.  Selection o f Consultants: The Project will require consultancy contracts estimated to
cost $800,000. With regard to the assignments where the scope o fwork o f the assignment
can be precisely defined and the Terms o f Reference are clear and well specified the
recommended method i s Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Regarding small
assignments (below US$200,000) o f a routine nature, such as outreach and capacity
buildingservices to boththe NYF and the Local Development Programme (LDP) system
or documental services relating to Project's activities, a qualified consultant firm may be
selected through Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) method.
Concerning very small assignments (below US$50,000) o f a routine nature a qualified
consultant firm may be selected through Single Source Selection (SSS). Qualified
individual consultants may be appointed by the implementing agency to assist in project
implementation and to provide technical assistance. They should be selected through a
comparison o f qualifications o f at least three qualified consultants among those who have
expressed interest in the assignments or have been approached directly by the agencies.
Such contracts will include: (a) Capacity Building Advisor; (b) Public Expenditure
Analysis Expert, (c) NYFS Manager, (d) M I S Coordinator, (e) Youth Facilitators (one
per sub-district where the project operates), and (f) an expert to design the Operations


                                               43

Manual for Youth Grants. In addition, with appropriate justifications and after
concurrence by IDA, individual consultants may be selected on a sole-source basis in
exceptional cases, such as: tasks that are continuation o f previous work that the
consultants have carried out and for which the consultants were selected competitively;
assignments lasting less than six months; and when the individual consultant is the only
consultant qualified for the assignment. The implementing agency may proceed with
advance contracting for key contracts relating to individual consultants assignment and
the possibility o f retroactive financing is envisaged.

4. Youth Grants: The project includes a total o f approximately US$1.1 million ingrants
for youth groups and organizations, youth centers, and youth inrural villages. The grants
will be usedfor a range o f activities, including local development projects, social events,
livelihood projects, community service activities, training, and dialogues. Keeping with
the objectives o f project, youth themselves will identify, prioritize and select the specific
activities. The grants will be allocated based on total population so as to ensure fairness.
The maximum size o f each grant would not exceed. US$lO,OOO (Indeed initial
calculations show the amount allocated will be approximately $1.80 per person, which
would result in grants o f approximately US$2,000 to US$5,000). The selection criteria
and the process for allocation, sample agreements, monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
arrangements, procurement and disbursement o f the grants shall be inaccordance with an
Operations Manual (condition for effectiveness). The project includes mechanisms (Audit
and M&E) to verify whether the funds are used as intended. Consequently, procurement
under the grants will not be subject to the Bank's prior review, as this mechanism
provides for technical and procurement audits. The Operations Manual will include the
following:

5.  Community Participation:

Goods:
     0   Shopping: Except as provided below, for goods that are estimated to cost more
         thanUS$2,000 per contract, acomparisonofthree quotations is encouraged.
     0   Direct contracting:Because of the small size o f the individual purchases and
         since a comparison o f prices may not be practical due to quality and distance
         considerations, procurement o f materials costing US$2,000 or less per contract
         may be through direct contracting from local markets or suppliers.

Works:
     0   Shopping: Except as provided below, for works estimated to cost more than
         US$4,000, a comparison o f quotations shall be required. Procurement o f such
         small works shall be under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
         o f quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in
         response to written invitations. The invitations for quotation shall include a
         detailed description o f the works including basic specifications, the required
         completion date, and a form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
         drawings where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor offering
         the lowest price quotation for the work andwho has experience andthe resources



                                               44

          to complete the contract successfblly. If three qualified contractors are not
          available within the community area, the contract may be awarded on the basis
          o f two quotations or awarded directly to a sole qualified contractor available in
          the area.
          Direct contracting: Because o f the small size o f the individual contracts and since
          a comparison o f prices may not be practical, procurement o f works costing
          US$4,000 or less per contract may be through direct contracting.
          Individual Consultants:
          Comparison o f three qualified candidates: Except as provided below, for
          individual contracts that are estimated to cost more than US$2,000 per contract a
          comparison o f three qualified candidates shall be required.
      0   Sole Source: Because o f the small size o f the individual contracts and since a
          comparison o f three qualified candidates may not be practical, then selection o f
          individual consultants costing US$2,000 or less per contract or less may be
          through Sole Source.

6. Incremental Operating Costs: A small provision has been made for incremental
operating costs ($24,000). This item would include communications, utilities, stationary,
transportation, accommodation and allowances. The procurement of such items would
follow implementing agency's administrative procedures, which have been found to be
acceptable.

Assessmentof the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

7. Responsibility for procurement will lie with Ministry o f State Administration and
Territorial Management (MSATM). The existing Project Management Unit o f the LDP
(LDP-PMU) will be the focal point within the Ministry. In terms o f procurement
activities, DLDTM and the LDP-PMU would work closely with MSATM's Directorate
o f Administration and Finance (DAF-MSATM). An assessment o f the capacity of the
Implementing Agency to implement procurement actions for the Project has been carried
out inMay 2008. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing
the Project and the interaction between the Project's staff responsible for procurement.
Most o f the issues and risks concerning the procurement component for implementation
o f the project have been identified. These include weak capacity o fthe implementing unit
and the marginally satisfactory procurement environment. Based on the assessment, the
overall procurement risk i s rated as "average".

8. The corrective measures which have been agreed are (i) to MSATM's DAF
                                                                  training
procurement staff on World Bank procurement, (ii)       reliance on simple procurement and
selection methods (shopping, individual consultant and CQS), (iii)      procurement advisory
services to be provided by a Project Adviser during the first six months o f project
implementation, (iv) a small number o f contracts will be awarded under this project and
(v) any contract over US$200,000 are required to be reviewed by the Government's
Contract Assessment Commission, adding to the internal control on the Government side.
Evenwith these risk mitigating measures, the rating for residual risk for procurement will
still be "average". This is mainly due to the existing low procurement capacity.



                                              45

ProcurementPlan

9. The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Simplified Procurement Plan (SPP) for
project implementation covering the initial six months. This plan has been agreed
between the Recipient and the Project Team (refer to Attachment 2). The Plan is
available at MSATM's office. It will also be available in the project's file and on the
Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team after six months o f project implementation and then on an annual basis, or
as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

10. Procurement supervision will be part o f the overall supervision efforts for this
Project. Inaddition to the prior review supervision for most o f the activities to be carried
out from World Bank offices, the capacity assessment o f M S A T M has recommendedone
procurement supervision mission each year to carry out post review o f procurement
actions.



ProcurementMethods                       Applicability                      Prior Review
                                                                            Thresholds

Shopping                                 =<US$50,000                        First contract
National Competitive Bidding             >50,000 <US$150,000
                                                  -                         Firstcontract
International Competitive Bidding        >=US$150,000                       All


Shopping                                 =<US$50,000                        First contract
NationalCompetitive Bidding              >50,000 <US$500,000
                                                  -                         Firstcontract
International ComDetitive Biddine        >=US$500.000                       All



QCBS                                                                        >=us$100,000
CQS
sss                                      Inaccordance withConsultant's
                                       . Guidelines                         All

Individuals -Competitive                                                    As indicated inthe
                                                                            Procurement
Individuals - Sole Source                                                   All




l3 The Task Team Leader is aware that current Bank's policy calls for prior review o f Individual
Consultants only on an exceptional basis. Prior review o f key and selected assignment is considered
necessaryby him,and supported by the Procurement Specialist.


                                                 46

Attachment 1

                    APPENDIX TO PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE

                         NationalCompetitiveBiddingProcedures

The following provisions shall apply inrespect o f contracts for goods and works financed
under the Project and procured accordingto National Competitive Biddingprocedures:

1.      Eligibility

The eligibility o f bidders shall be as defined under Section Io f the Association's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the
Association inM a y 2004 andrevised inOctober 2006; accordingly, no bidder or potential
bidder should be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Association for reasons
other than the ones providedby Section Io fthe Guidelines.

2.      Bidders participation

N o eligibility restrictions based on nationality o f bidder or origin o f goods shall apply;
therefore, foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate inN C B without restriction.

N o limitations shall be imposed on any bidder as to the number o f tenders in which he
may participate during a given period o ftime.

Prior registration, obtaining a license or an agreement shall not be a requirement for any
bidderto participate inbiddingprocedures.

3.      Advertising, Time for BidPreparation

Potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which should not be less
than30 days, except for commodities and small goods contract.

4.      Standard BiddingDocuments

Standard BiddingDocuments, acceptable to the Bank, should be used.

5.      Bid Security

Bid security shall not be required for all procurement and shall be caped to a reasonable
percentage o f the amount o f the contract in order not to hinder competition; when
required, it shall be inthe form o f a bank guarantee from a reputable bank.

6.      Oualification Criteria and Evaluation Criteria

Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and all criteria
so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder i s
qualified. The evaluation o f the bidder's qualifications should be conducted separately
from the technical and commercial evaluation o f the bid.


                                             47

7.     BidOpening. EvaluationandAward o fContract

Bids shall be opened immediately after the stipulated deadline for submission o f bids.
Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to the
bidders unopened.

        (a)     Evaluation o f bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that
                shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in
                monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; Merit points shall
                not be used inbidevaluation
        (b)     A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers
                the lowest evaluated price andno negotiations shall be permitted.
        (c)     Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis o f
                minor, non-substantial deviations.
        (d)     No bidder shall be rejected on the basis o f a comparison with the
                employer's estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank's prior
                concurrence.

8.      Preferences

No domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and for domestically
manufactured goods

9.      Reiection o f all bids andre-bidding

All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without Bank's prior written
concurrence.

10.     Publication o f the Award o f Contract

Publication o f the contract award should include (a) name o f eachbidder who submitteda
bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price o f each bid,
(d) name of bidders whose bids were rejected and (e) name o f the winning bidder; upon
request, the borrower shall inform unsuccessful bidderso fthe reasons o f their rejection.

11.     Complaints by Bidders and Handling o f Complaints

The Borrower shall establish an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing
bidders to protest andto have their protests handled ina timelymanner.

12.     Fraud and Corruption

The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in
executing, a contract financedby the Association.




                                             48

13.    Rightto inspect/audit

Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds o f a [Loadcredit] shall
include a provision requiringbidders, suppliers and contractors to permit the Bank, at its
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor
or subcontractor o f such provisionmay amount to obstructive practice.




                                          49

 Attachment2 -ProcurementPlan

 ProcurementMethods                    IApplicability                 IPrior ReviewThresholds
 Goods
 Shopping                               =<US$50,000                    Firstcontract
 NationalCompetitive Bidding            >50,000 - <US$150,000          Firstcontract
 InternationalComDetitiveBidding        >=US$150.000                   All


 Shopping                               =<US$50,000                    Firstcontract
 NationalCompetitive Bidding            >50,000 <US$500,000
                                                 -                     Firstcontract
 InternationalCompetitive Bidding       >=US$500,000                   All
 Selection Methods

 QCBS                                                                  >=us$100,000
 CQS
 sss                                    Inaccordance withConsultant's
                                         Guidelines                    All
                                                                       As indicatedinthe
 Individuals-Competitive (IC)                                          ProcurementPlan
 Individuals- Sole Source                                              All




          Mentoring-Youth




IConsultingServices -Individual Consultants

 Component1: Operationalizingthe NationalYouthPolicy
 IC.1   I NYFTechnicalAdvisor     I$20,000                       I1June 2008            IPrior




                                                50

Goods and Works




                   51

    ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORINGARRANGEMENTS

1.      The implementation o f the Project has been designed to maximize ownership o f
the Project's    activities, build internal government capacity, and to ensure the
sustainability o f the program within the government's policy priorities and work
schedule. For this reason, the project implementation i s integrated as far as possible into
government structures andutilizes and builds upon existing systems.

ProjectCoordinationandManagement

2.      The SSYS and the M S A T M will cooperate to implement the Project.             For
fiduciary purposes, the formal government counterpart for the project will be the Ministry
o f State Administration and Territorial Management (MSATM). The SSYS will work
closely with M S A T M and will be responsible for implementation o f Component 1
(Operationalizing the National Youth Policy). One committee and one technical working
group will be established to ensure coordination between these two government
departments, and to ensure effective and rapid implementation o f the Project. The
diagram below summarizes the arrangement.



                                              Project
                                             Steering
                                            Committee




                                             Technical
                     SSYS                    Working                 MSATM
                     ( P W                    Group                   (LDP-PMU)




3.       Proiect Steering Committee. The Project Steering Committee will oversee project
implementation. More specifically, it will: (i)   oversee the Technical Working Group; (ii)
facilitate the coordination o f the various institutions involved in the Project; (iii)
                                                                                      review
and endorsement o f annual progress reports; and, (iv) endorse annual workplan. The
committee will consist o f the Minister o f MSATM, the Secretary o f the SSYS, and a
representative of MED, and a civil society representative. The Minister o f M S A T M and
Secretary o f the SSYS will co-chair the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee
will meet biannually. A terms of reference for the Project Steering Committee will be
specified inthe Operations Manual.



                                              52

4.      Technical Working Group (TWG). The TWG will be the Bank's main counterpart
and technical focal point for project implementation. It will be responsible for: (i)
coordination between M S A T M and SSYS, particularly with respect to finance and
procurement matters; (ii)  coordination among other institutions involved in the Project,
including contractors involved in implementation o f both components; and (iii)         liaison
with the World Bank. It will consist o f a lead representative from the MSATM and
SSYS, the heads o f finance from both M S A T M and SSYS, and other department and
technical staff. The leadrepresentatives from MSATMand SSYS will co-chair the TWG.
The TWG will meet on a quarterly basis at least, and more regularly as necessary. A
terms o freference for the TWGwill be specified inthe Operations Manual.

Activity Implementation

5.      The SSYS intends to establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the
SSYS to coordinate the activities o f component one. The PIU will work closely with the
SSYS's Directorates. Specifically, the Directorate o f Policy and Development will play a
key role in the Project's capacity building activities and establishing the procedures and
guidelines for the NYF. Similarly, the Directorate o f Youth will play a key role in the
strengthening o f youth centers (Sub-Component B).

6.      The existing LDP within M S A T M already includes a Project Management Unit
(LDP-PMU). Keeping with the project's aim to utilize existing systems and structures,
the LDP-PMUwill take primary responsibility for coordinating the implementation o fthe
Youth inLocal Development component (Component 2).

7.      The Project also involves a number o f joint activities that are related to both
Components 1 and 2. This will largely consist o f engaging the services o f a number o f
consultants and organizations (e.g., the capacity buildingworkshops, M I S Expert, Gender
Advisor). The TWG will take responsibility for coordinating the implementation o f these
activities.

8.      Operations Manual. The TWG, under the guidance o f the Project Steering
Committee and with assistance from the Bank, will prepare the Operations Manual for
the Project.

MonitoringandEvaluation

9.      The successful implementation o f robust monitoring and evaluation framework is
crucial for the overall success o f the Project. This is the case for any Project, but it i s
particularly so given the Project's pilot status and its objective o f integrating systems into
government institutions and drawing upon the government's budget in future years.

10.     The appraisal mission included a monitoring and evaluation expert and involved
conducting a monitoring and evaluation assessment. The assessment included an
assessment o f past experience and capacity o f MSATM and SSYS to implement rigorous
monitoring and evaluation. Overall, the assessment indicated that capacity was low. More



                                              53

specifically the Task Team identified a number o f challenges: i)that the nature o f the
program-particularly     the utilization o f grants whose use will be determined by youth
themselves-will    complicate systematic collection o f data on activities and their impacts;
(ii)that the LDP's existing monitoring mechanisms are not working optimally and
require improvement; (iii)   that the LDP does not include a complaints handling system;
(iv) that the SSYS has little-to-no experience at implementing a system for systematically
monitoring activities; (v) that there very few, if any, research organizations capable o f
carry-out independent, rigorous and empirical evaluations, particularly when it comes to
quantitative methods.

11.     The assessment also identified a preliminary strategy for ensuring the design and
implementation o f a simple but sufficiently robust M&E system. This includes the
following: (i) the World Bank will provide technical expertise in the detailed design o f a
suitable M&E Framework (Annex 2 lists the relevant Project indicators and outlines the
M&E tools that will be utilized); (ii) implementation o f monitoring and evaluation
                                          the
will be split, with the government taking responsibility for the implementation o f
monitoring and process evaluation and the Bank (in close association with government)
for impact evaluation; (iii)   Bank supervision missions will include a monitoring and
evaluation expert who will provide ongoing support during the Project, but particular in
the first year as the systems are put in place; (iv) the Project will include hnds for
engaging an international consultant who will design and establish an M I S within both
the M S A T M and SSYS-work        will start once there is a draft Operations Manual for the
Project; (v) the M&E system for the Youth in Local Development component will be
hlly integrated inMSATM's LDP M&E system (consultants co-hded by UNCDF and
WB will be hired to develop the integratedMIS, ajoint complaints handling mechanism,
and community scorecard guidelines); (vi) the Framework will draw upon the findings
and recommendations o f a new AAA work that will include a review o f monitoring and
evaluation systems used by community-driven development projects inTimor-Leste; and,
(vii) the M&E Framework will utilize both quantitative and qualitative research methods
given the nature o f the Project.

12.      The Project's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Framework will be detailed in
an annex o fthe Operations Manual.




                                               54

  ANNEX 7: PROJECT PREPARATIONAND APPRAISALTEAM MEMBERS

Name                         Title / Specialty                   Unit
Ingo Wiederhofer             Senior Operations Officer, TTL      EASSO
Steffi Stallmeister          Senior Onerations Officer           EACDF
Junxue Chu                   Senior Finance Officer              LOAFC
Samuel Clark                 Consultant                          EASSO
Joao Jose August0 Gomes      Operations Officer                  EACDF
StephenPaul Hartung          Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Angela NyawiraKhaminwa       Young Professional                  EASSO
Markus Kostner               Advisor                             OPCFC
James Orehmie Monday         Senior Environmental Engineer       EASRE
Jose Mousaco                 Youth Officer                       EACDF
Cristiano Costa e SilvaNunes Procurement Specialist              EAPCO
Ditte Marie FallesenPetersen Junior Professional Officer         OPCFC
Rodrigo Serran0-Berthet      Local Development Specialist / M&E  SDV
                             Expert
Kishor Uprety                Senior Counsel                      LEGES
SonvaWoo                     Onerations Officer                  EASSO




                                      55

                                                         Annex 8: Youth inNumbers

Population Profile                                                                  Figure 1: Youth share of population (1995-2015)
Youth make up a large and increasing percentage                                       4 w                                                                          40
of the population.                                                                    3%                                                                           35

                                                                                      300                                                                          30
Total Population                           924,642                                    2%                                                                           25

                                                                                      2w                                                                           20
Youth (Total)                              225,300 (24%)                              1%                                                                           15
Youth (15-19)                              94,300 (10%)                               1w
Youth (20-29)                               131,000 (14%)                                                                                                          10

                                                                                      M                                                                            5

                                                                                        0                                                                          0
Note: There are slight differences in age categorles usedin figures and graph              sw PI ss7 ma ms zmo ZWI 2w2 m 2w* XIW 2m zw7 ma m 200
due to the definition of youth                                                                       I   0 1 2 . 2 8 ( W o I )   Z 1 2 . 2 9 ( % )   1
Education
Today's youth are the most educated generation of
Timorese, but many do not complete school. Poor-
Non-poor differences are higher than male-female                                                         .........................
differences

Some primary school                                         77%
Junior secondary school                                     34%
Senior high school                                          17%                                                                                    ..............

Post-secondary                                              2%
                                                                                             Pllmry.chool        JunlorlMondvy      Smbrhlgh           POSl8eEDndTy
                                                                                                                       85kQ01
Literacy                                                                            Figure 3: Youth literacy rate
llliteracy remains high despite high levels of
primary school completion.

Youth literacy                                              77%
Youth literacy (female)                                     76%
Youth literacy (male)                                       79%
Comparison (Philippines)                                    97%

Note The literacy figures for Timor-Leste are for all oficial languages,ie T e t q
Portuguese,Indonesian and English
Employment                                                                          Figure 4: Unemployment by age group and geography
Unemployment is extremely high, particularly in
the urban centers Dili and Baucau.

Youth Unemployment (Total)                                  43%
Youth unemployment (Dili)                                   58%                               .......................................................                ,I
Youth Unemployment (Rural)                                  15%                       30.0


Note: Percentage for Dill and Rural based on the 15-19 youth age group.               20 0

                                                                                      100

                                                                                        0 0



School-to-Work Transition                                                           Figure 5: School-to-work transition
The school-to-work transition takes men on average
five years, and many take even Longer

Transition age                                              517years
                                                                 years
Transition time (poor)
Transition time (better-off)                                7 years                     50

                                                                                        40

                                                                                        Jo

                                                                                        x )

                                                                                        10

                                                                                          0
                                                                                            12 13 14 15     I8 17      18 19   m 21 22    23 24   25 28 27 28 29
                                                                                                                                                              Pia.




                                                                                  56

     ANNEX 9: YOUTH INCRISIS-POLICY PRIORITIES, INTERVENTION
                              OPTIONSAND RECOMENDATIONS

                                        Towards a ComprehensiveFramework
Policy Priorities   #1: Keep youth in    #2: Increaseyouth   #3: Connectyouth      #4: Empower         #5: Strengthen
                    school               employment          with community        youth to            formal and
                                                            ..
                                         opportunities                             participatein       informalcontrols
                                                                                   nation-building    .on youth
Intervention         Conditionalcash    1  Cash-for-work       Youth service         Youth               Political
                                        ..
Options              transfers             Labor-intensive     Community-            consultations       leadership
                     Second-chance         public works        driven                Civic education  .  initiatives
                                                                                                      .
                     education             Labormarket      .  development         a Youth leadership    Mediation and
                     Improving the         interventions       Strengthening         and                 paralegal training
                     formal education      Employment          traditional           organizational      Community
                     experience            skills and          leadershipand         capacity            policing
                     After-school          information         culture               International       Reviewing and
                     youth centers       m Self-employment  1  Youth-led anti-       exchanges           rethinkingthe
                                           programs,           violence                                  justice and
                                         . including micro-    campaign                                  security reform
                                           credit            1 Lifeskills                                approach
                                           Investingin         training
                                           agriculture       1 Early childhood
                                                               development
                                      Recommendations 6 iterventionPriorltii
                                                         -
#1:Expand cash/in-  Directly affect
kind school         economic
programs            incentives to stay
                    in school
#2: Re-establish    Improve the school                        Create a space                           Indirectly
youth centers       experience by                            and structurefor                          strengthen
                    linkingyouth                             facilitating youth-                       informal social
                    centers to local                         Community                                 controls on youth
                    schools                                  relations
#3: Expandlabor-                          Increase youth                            Increase
intensiveyouth                            employment                                opportunitiesfor
employment                                opportunities                            youth to
programming                                                                         (re)construct the
                                                                                    nation's
                                                                                    infrastructure
#5: Re-establish                          Generate (short-   Facilitateyouth        Facilitate youth
community-driven                          term) employment   participation in      participation in
development                               opportunitiesfor   community              nation-building at
programmingwith                          youth (and others)   decision-making       a local level
a youth focus;
#6: Supporta                                                  Facilitate                               Strengthen non-
youth-led                                                     communication                            violence beliefs,
communication                                                 amongstyouth,                            norms and
program                                                       and betweenyouth                         leadership
                                                              and communities                          amongst youth
#7: Supporta                                                  Connectyouth                             Strengthen the
communityjustice                                              with community                            capacity of formal
and safety program                                            leaders and                               and informal
                                                                                                        institutions and
                                                                                                       actors, including
                                                                                                       police, courts,
                                                                                                       communi@and
                                                                                                       youth leaders, to
                                                                                                       exert appropriate
                                                                                                       authority over
                                                                                                       problem youth




                                                           57


                    124                                              125                                                                                   126                                                                127



                                                                                                                                                                                Wetar
                                                                                                                                                                                Island
                                                                           I N D O N E S I A

             10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Romang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Island
                                        TIMOR-
                                         LESTE                                                              Atauro
                                                                                                             Island           Biquele                                                   t
                                                         Alor                                                                                                               t  r a  i
                                                                                                                           Atauro                                       S
                                                        Island                                               Berau
                                                                                                                                             W      e  t     a  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cape Tei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lautm           Com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tutuala
                         Rantar                                                                                                                                                                               Laivai           Manal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Manal                   Cape Cutch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jaco
                         Island                                                                                                                                                                    Baucau
                                                                                                                                                                                  Bucli                                            Fuiloro
                                                                                                                                                                 Manatuto                                                                                   Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Los Palos
                                                                                                                  DILI      Metinaro                                                         SeicalBAUCAULaga
                                                                                                                                                                               Vermasse
                                                                                                                                                                               er
                                                                                         Liquia                              DILI               Lacl
                                                                                                                                                 Lacl              Laleia                                             Luro    LAUTEM
                                                                              Maubara
                                                                          Cape                         Bazartete                                                                 Venilale
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Quelicai
                                                                      Corimbala       LIQUIA
                                                                                      LIQUIA                                                                                                                  Baquia
                                                                                                             Railaco   AILEU                   Laclo MANATUTO                                                  Uato Carabau           Lor

                                                                                              Ermera                                                                                                                                Cape de Lor
                                                                                                                                                                                         Ossu                            Iliomar
                                                                                    Fatu Beso                                                 Laclubar
                          Savu           Sea                                                                           Aileu                                            Lacluta
                                                                                                                                                                                             Uatolari
                                                                                   Atabae   ERMERALetetoho                                                                    VIQUEQUE
                                                                                                                                     Turiscai                                                             Aliambata
                                                                                                                          Maubisse                                                       Viqueque
                                                                         BOBONARO             Tata Mai Lau
                                                                                                   (2963 m)        Hato Builico                         Sahen       Barique


                                                              Batugade                                                                                                                              B Aco
                                                                                     Maliana                                 MANUFAHI                CFato   Berliu                             Cape Deilubn
             9                                                                                                    Ainaro
                                                                                             Bobonaro                            Same                 iere         Umaboco                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                     Alas

                                                                            a     n    d                AINARO
                                                                                                           Mape

                                               Sacato                                                                  Hatudo
                                 Oecussi                          I  s   l
                                                                                             Loloto
                                                                        Fatolulic                                                     Betano
                                                                                                                              Cape
                                                                          COVA LIMA                                          Caltec
                                OECUSSI                     r                   Fohorem
                     Kitrana   Ntibe
                               Ntibe   O Silo
                                        O               o                                   Suai
                                                       m                    Tilomar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 127

                               Passabe                i                               Cape Tafara
                                                     T
               To
             Naikliu                                                                                                                      Timor                      Sea                                         TIMOR-LESTE
                              I N D O N E S I A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                                                        0     10       20      30 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                        0           10           20             30 Miles                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
JANUAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS                            IBRD
              To                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
             Kuala                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
            Lumpur                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                     33496
      Y
       2005                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                    124                                              125                                                                                   126

