tILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1436-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROJECT
May 7, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or' cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As at April 19, 1974)
US$1.00           Rs. 7.96
Rs. 1.00       = US$0.126
Rs 1 million      US$126,000
(The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed Pound
Sterling rate. As the Pound is now floating
relative to the US Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$150 million on standard IDA
terms for the Ninth Industrial Imports Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
is tc be distributed shortly to the Executive Directors.     A country data
sheet is attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        In 1972, India experienced a severe drought and total foodgrain
production dropped by 8 percent. This followed a decline of 4 percent in
foodgrain production in 1971 when the weather was unfavorable in large parts
of Western and Northwestern India. The scarcity of food during 1972 and
1973 resulted in dramatic price increases adding further to inflation which
has affected India over the last two years. Real income and demand were
consequently    affected and contributed in part to stagnation in_industrial
ouRtput.  At the same time, the huget was severely comstrained through the
~ ~                           drought relief, while the balance of paymnts has hado.t
accommodate large-scale imports of foodgrain. To these difficulties, there
has now been added more recently the impcts                       of essent nial
ipart.ed   .dities, in particular foodgrain, oil and fertilizer.      It is
this current situation which is especially relevant to the consideration
of the proposed credit. But, first, developments during 1973/74 1/ require
some explanation.
The Economy in 1973/74
4.        At the beginning of 1973/74,-the prospects were for a year of
modest growth. Weather conditions were expected to be favorable to agri-
culture; industrial output was set to continue expanding, albeit at a
somewhat lower rate than the previous year; and the balance of payments
was forecast to include provision for increased imports of essential raw
materials. Thanks to the weather, agricultural production has indeed
improved, and foodgrains from the sum-mer (harifr) crop reached record levels.
While winter (rabi) output is now forecast to fall short of the target, total
foodgrain production may approach somewhere near the record output of 108
1/   Indian Fiscal Years, Aprill-March 31.



-2-
million tons achiieved in 1970/71. However, this levejof-production will not
permit_the_replepnjhment of          nor meet the demand,_of the.rising_poplation
withkout  a,rdshipunles.siiports-arearranged.    At the same time, industrial
p.L oducnt.-o_ as_hown little   nogrowth.    Indeed, over the first six months
of 1973, the index showed a decline, which is disappointing andl in many ways
perplexing; this is examined in Part III. Exports have shown a very respectable
increase of 19 percent. But the balance of payments is now undler strain as
a result of the worldwide rise in commodity prices which took place during
1973/74.
S5.         It is is   last.mentioned development which has overshadowed
everything else.   The originally projected trade ba aIcefor 1SL7L7 Lw as
a deficit of USS$j40..million; the current estimate is a deficit of
US$655 million. This serious deterioration is attributable to three
factqMs, offset only in small part by somewhat better than forEcast
export performance.   First, substantial imports of foodgrain were re-
quired; then petroleum prices started their spectacular increase during the
latter part of the year; and finally, the cost of fertilizer has risen
partly on account of scarcity and partly on account of rising feedstock
costs.  Other commodities have also risen in price as shown below but, as
the import bill for these has been kept at the 1972/73 level, their volume
thas had to be severely reduced.
Average Prices of Selected Imports (c & f)
(US$ per ton)
1972/73 /1      January 1974 /2   Percentage Increase
Whueat                     125                250                   99
*Urea                        69                260                  275
SulDhur                    32                 70                  119
Steel sheets               204                340                   67
Steel wire rods            216                335                   55
Copper                    1103               2230                  102
Zinc                       351               1140                  225
'Phosphate                   18                 85                  372
/1   Customs data
/2   Based on contracts entered into in January 1974.
Source:   Government of India
6.        There have also been increases in the prices of some of India's
exports; prices of oilcakes have gone up by a spectacular 90 percent, leather
products by as much as 75 percent, cotton textiles by 30 percent:, coffee by
40 percent. Towards the end of the year, some upward movement began to take
place in the prices of jute, tea and iron ore. But, during 1973/74 these
were not nearly so dramatic as the increases in import prices.
7.        Another significant trend has been the rapid ise inldomestic
prices. Food items alone, on the wholesale price index, have risen by
27 percent over the year February 1973 to February 1974, while t.he index



-3-
for all commodities has also gone up by the same amount. This contrasts with
rises of 8 percent or so in 1972/73, and an average of around 4 percent in
the three preceding years. Part of the explanation has been shortage of
domestic products, especially food and foodgrains, and of course the world-
wide increases in the price of raw materials and goods generally. But even
with more plentiful supplies of foodgrain becoming available during the
latter part of 1973, the index has failed to register any decline. A factor
has been the difficult conditions created in 1973 following the Government
takeover of the wholesale wheat trade and the setting of low procurement
prices which undoubtedly led farmers to withhold supplies from the market.
In addition, the expansion of money supply, especially credit to the Govern-
ment sector, has added greatly to the inflationary forces.
Prospects for 1974/75
8. The prospects for 1974/75 cannot be described as anything other
than pgrim.  India enters this year with food stocks well below the mninimtum
safety level to deal with even a slight shortfall in production, severe
constraints on development expenditures, continuing inflation and an impending
import bill of barely manageable proportions.    This is the first year of the
Fifth Plan period, but events have invalidated many of the assumptions upon
which the Plan had been drafted.
9.        The Government is taking various measures to deal with the
situation.   It has already negotiated with the USSR for the import of 2 mil-
lion tons of wheat of which 1 million tons has been delivered.     A further
two million tons are expected to be required during the course of 1974.
Provided imports can be arranged in a timely manner, the Government should
have sufficient supplies to maintain a reasonable level of distribution
(throughout the year. At the same time, the Government recently decided
( that the private sector may again operate in the wholesale wheat trade.
In the budget presented at the end of February, GOI planned to.reduce deficit
financing and reassessedpriorities for developmentexpenditures.       The former
has been achieved by limiting the increase in development expendit.ures to
only 7 percent which is likely to mean-a_decline-in_real=terms. However,
within this relatively modest allocation for_development, certain vital
sectors have received substantial increment4.                  Tha     caion
for- 3coal mining has quadrupled, for railways it has gone up 80 percent, and
for fertilizer it has been raised by 75 percent. The reassessment of prior-
ities underlying these increases has led to most of the burden of financial
stringency being placed upon the social sectors.
10.       Recent experience has shown that the deficits projected in the
budgetprove inpractice to be much larger partly on account of requirements
for unf eres.engyvents-such-as-droughts.   For instance, in 1973/74 the deficit
was budgeted to be US$113 million but is likely to end up at around US$870
million. The results for 1974/75 may also be worse than estimated but for
the somewhat different reason that the 12 percent increase in tax revenue
is expected largely to come through higher yields from existing taxes based
on the assumption of some recovery of the economy. Circumstances are not
propitious for such a recovery and so if events should prove the projection
wrong, then another year of heavy deficit financing is likely to occur.



-4-
Consequently, the curbs on the expansion of money supply imposed by the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) would be vitiated. In any case, even if the
RBI is successful in reducing the rate of expansion, the best that can be
hoped for is some decline in the rate of inflation through greater availability
of domestic foodstuffs.
II.       The p,>o_s.fp.t-eL--crs-brtealuw&-oLp_ayme*s__Ane     V x, -e blek
1The balance o       -
aggravated by the need for additional food imports, rising commodity prices
as mentioned in paragraph 5, and a staggering bill for petroleum. Demand for
petroleum products has been growing consistently at about 9 percent per
annum over the last decade. Imports, which account for about two-thirds of
India's total petroleum consumption, have been growing at about 6 percent
per annum over the same decade to reach US$265 million in 1972/7:3 or 10 percent
of India's total imports.   The recent price _ifc, ag§g       r    i2An  for g
cons d Xseait_Lud het7;7i1v1,xdps.
cost f_g.ko1    _tD_ASL hsh"a1_  Ls 30_ 3  million:                        ka       y
enlarged. ig_pptbiLl.   To look at it another way, whereas in 1972/73 about
9 percent of India's export earnings sufficed to pay for petroleum imports,
iaj7L        __           n   o9L#pgt ---earainpgs wQuld-have-to-b£Ls3^ntpmgt;-9-"
the petroieum_bJiA.
12.       It is estimated that in 1974/75 India's total merchandise import
bill would have to be about US$4.970    illion to keep the economy going even on
a most restricted basis.   On the export side, price increases of some
commodities, such as oilcakes and leather products, have slowed -down; for
some other commodities, notably jute and tea, the upward movement, which
became apparent towards the end of 1973/74, has accelerated. But the future
development of these trends is most uncertain. Even so with an Optimistic
export forecast, there would be a trade deficit of         UMg_L73Q
millq    (Annex IV).  Making further optimistic assumptions about new aid
availabilities and allowing for debt service and other claims on foreign
exchange, India would still only be able to finance little more than half
of this deficit without some special financing arrangements with oil producing
nations and substantial use of foreign exchange reserve resources including
IMF facilities. As the balance of payments crisis facing India is not one
which can be regarded as temporary, excessive reliance on the latter would
not be prudent; some use of these resources will be necessary because of the
lack of alternatives, and early in 1974/75, GOI drew from the IMF its gold
and first credit tranches totalling US$375 million. It is also inevitable
that imports will have to be compressed. Apart from essential food imports,
India's import bill contains hardly any other consumption items. So any
compression of iorts will have to be from amona essential raw :;ateriaThr
with ca.ownse~iLe~~~. s~4p4     ~g~44~~i                 ~uct ion.
The Role of External Assistance
13.       India lhas been the recipient of substantial external assistance
particularly since the mid-1950s, with the result that gp_MAXgh 31,_1973
India's externajlpublic debt ha _reached a leve       UM.4Ul1LiQ.       Be-
causeof the large stock of outstanding debt and because the terms of some
of the earlier assistance were hard, de_t_service has also reached quite
high levels; US$700 million in 1973/74 which is about 24 percent of exports.



- 5 -
Since 1968/69, the Consortium countries have provided some debt relief. The
most recent set of agreements covering 1973/74 have resulted in debt relief of
about US$187 million; this compares with debt service payments to Consortium
members of US$610 million in 1973/74. While, for the most part, this relief
has not increased the gross aid available to India, it has improved the quality
of foreign assistance.
14.       In terms of her needs and in relation to the size of her population,
India has received only modest external assistance as compared with most
tother developing countries. Particularly striking has been the rapid decline
of net ai since~5/__6, made all the more significant through the decline
in purchasing power of currencies, as a consequence of declining aid commit-
ments and rising debt service paymeits.   Whereas over the three years 1964/65
to 1966/67 net aid averaged just over US$1,200 million, over the three years
1970171 to 1972/73, it declined to an average of only just under US$400
million (Annex V), considerably less than half a dollar per capita. In
1973/74 this trend was reversed with net aid expected to reach US$600 million,
because of some increase in the level of new commitments and disbursements,
and because the rate of growth of debt service has begun to level off as
a consequence of the considerable softening of terms since the mid 1960s.
In view of the current balance of payments situation described above, it is
clear that this reversal is quite timely.   It is equaly lear that further
substantial increases in aid levels are critical.
The Case for Non-Project Assistance
15.       The general case for non-project assistance to India has been
considered during the presentation of previous Credits. It has been based
on the need to match more effectively      composition ofaidfinancqo       ds
with India imprt ruirements..       The current economic difficulties render
the need all the more urgent.
16.       A substantial proportion of India's imports is financed by
aid; nearly 45 percent during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1969/70-1973/74).
Because of the structure of the economy, and in particular thelargeca--ital
goods industry, th           ndia's imports coprise raw materials, components
andlfio,dgr.ai_ns_wicbJhaxacqEHl2        Eli_P!Z           J*SeI -pDrg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~veacone   for nearly p8ercento     total-impoo  _  rts
during_the   spmexjo    (Annex VI).  Thus ,_hemeare real imts_to_the-extent
to which assistance rendered tolIndia can be in theAoxm_of_tradition.al
projgaid whi chfnancesimp rted equipment. Instead a significant pro-
portion of foreign assistance must finance raw materials and components. But
the availa   ityofnon-project aid has decl nd markedly over te         t few
years from US$775 million in 1970/71 to just under US$500 million in 1972/73;
th;e latter amount representing only 25 percent of imported raw materials and
components. Given that a large part of foreign assistance is subject, in
one form or another, to restriction on its use and given also that a rising
amount of India's own free foreign exchange earnings has had to be used in
meeting debt service (US$480 million in 1970/71 and US$572 million in 1972/73),
the problem of matching aid with import requirements has been made exceedingly
difficult.



- 6 -
17.       Thus, foreign assistance which can match India's most urgent
import needs is of paramount importance.  In the Consortium, the Bank
has contlnually pressed members to increase the proportion oi' their
assistance which can be used for imported raw materials and components. At
a Working Party meeting held in Paris on April 9, the Bank rmade the recommend-
ation that each member should make available freely usable foreign exchange
equal to no less than 50 percent of debt service from India. The Bank Group
for its part has also contributed significantly to making available free
foreign exchange. Foreign exchange disbursem.nts in respect of local
expenditures under IDA projects have increased from US$4 million in 1971/72
to about US$90 million in 1973/74. While this source of assistance has now
become significant, it is dependent upon the implementation of projects and
consequently the amount disbursed in any one year can be subject to variation.
Furthermore, the flow of funds from this source cannot easily be changed.
So, the transfer through the Industrial Imports Credits becomes important.
Through previous credits, disbursements for industrial raw material imports
rose from US$55 million in 1971/72 to US$95 million in 1973/74. The proposed
credit will enable the Association to continue this form of vital assistance
and greatly ease the task before India of matching resources to needs.
18.       'he need for industrial imports financing has been mentioned so
far in terms of balance of payments requirements. However, the scarcity of
domestic resources should also be stressed (see paras 10 and 11). The
draft Fifth Plan emphasizes the need for a very substantial increase in both
public savings and the transfer of private savings to the public sector if
there is to be even moderate development. Since consumer prioes rose by
23 percent in the first eleven months of 1973, and the 1973/74 budget
deficit greatly exceeded expectations, it is well that the 1974/75 budget
puts special emphasis on spending curbs.   Even so, deve.lppme,nlL,expend,itures
in real terms will be lower than. in 19.73/74 and 20 -percent or. so.below
the level required to be consistent with the Draf.t Fifth.Plan.,
19.       In view of the domestic resource position, difficult:y.in.
maintaining proj,ct.ed. rates of implementation for projects.can_be expected
so that, for foreign aided projects, disbursements.o.ut.,of exi,sting,,commit-
ments are likely to slow down-. Furthermore, investment priorities have been
affected by the recent price developments and consequently, the number of
project starts and their composition is likely to differ from what was
originally expected.  Hence, non-project aid is of high priority and the
best way for the Bank.Group to,make a response to these changed circumstances
'aind'to facilitate the adjustments which have to be made,,would be to increase
Ole amotunt of program lending over previous years as.propos,ed under this
cr'edit.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 41 loans and 58 development
credits to India totalling US$1,177 million and US$2,573 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$621 million has been



-7-
repaid, and US$995 million is still undisbursed. Annex II contains a
summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1974, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Since 1957, IFC has made 13 commitments in India totalling
US$42.3 million, of whT7`h US$6.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million
sold and US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$22 million,
US$14.9 million represents loans and US$7.1 million equity. A summary
statement of IFC operations as of March 31, 1974 is also included in
Annex II (page 2).
22.       The emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on agriculture.
Within agriculture the Association has been particularly active in
supporting mnjinor LrrigAtion and farm mechanization through agricultural
creditperKations.    Major irrigation, marketing, and seed development
are other agricultural activities supported by the Association. In
recognition of the importance of industrialization for India's future
development, the Bank Group has been active in financing the expansion of
capacity in the fertilizer and steel sectors and also, through its sizeable
assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of geograph-
ically scattered medium and small-scale enterprises. IDA financing of
industrial raw materials and components for selected priority sectors has
been instrumental in facilitating fuller capacity utilization in these
sectors. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and the railways. Family
planning, education, water supply development and related urban investments
have also received Bank Group support.
23.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and GOI's priorities. The emphasis of the
program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport, remain highly
relevant.  Nevertheless, special attention is now being_pid toinclusion.
in the le dinjrogram ofenergy        a e       gJs.   Repeater credits for
power and_railways,which are crucial for transport of coal, have high
priority in this context and discussions are now taking place with GOI on
the identification of additional projects with similar priority status.
24J        Of the external assistance received byInditltep     portpion
contributed by_theRankQroup has grown dramatically.      In 1969/70 the
Bank Group accounted for 30, 13 and 10 percent respectively of total
commitme          ross and net      rsgment   as compared with an estimated
50, 33 and 79 percesnt respttiely in 1973/14.     On the basis of past
trends the contribution of the Bank Group_is expected to continue growing.
Whereas on March 31, 1973 the Bank Group's share of India's outstand'Ting-
external public debt was 21 percent by 1979 it is likely to account for
30 percent. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA Credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1972/73 about 13 percent of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group and by 1979 it is estimated that the Bank Group's share will
have increased to 16 percent.



- 8 -
PART III - INDUSTRY
25.       During the late 1950s and the first half of the 1960s, industrial
growth was quite rapid and averaged about 9 percent per annum. As a conse-
quence of this and earlier efforts, India today has a_highly diversified
industrial structure capable of producing a wide range of goods including
some quite sophisticated ones. Nevertheless the record of industrial growth
since 1966 has been disappointing, having averaged less than 4 percent in
the 7 years through 1972 (Annex VII).   During 1973 there may well have been
no growth ,at all.
26.       The reasonsfoEr thepoor..recordof recent years are :gmpJex and,
indeed, perpl.xingibecausnetthey appear=to b      sointractable..  The special
studies carried out under previous Industrial Imports Credits (see paragraph
37) have shown the wide spectrum of managerial and technical capability to
be found in any one sub-sector; this variation is true of the sector as a
whole. Consequently it can prove misleading to make generalizations about
the sector as a whole, but some reasons for poor performance, which are
applicable to the sector, can be identified.   Foremost, of course, is the
very narrow resource base, especially in terms of technology, upon which
the sector has been built up; an inadequacy which has been compounded by
overstretching scarce managerial and technical skill.s   Also industrial
,policy has had to contend with the coplex ,problem of relating social goals
with productive goals. The task has proved especially difficu]Lt in an
economy with such a low resource base and such a vast population, and
consequently the solutions have on various instances ended up tiy being in
conflict with economic objectives to exploit more fully India's. comparative
advantage.
27.       The task of industrial management has been further_qip      dedlby
the gen!erally poor performance of the economy.  For instance, any fall in
agricultural production affects industry. The classic illustrations of
this have been the recession in 1966 and 1967 following the drought of 1965/66
and the problems experienced in 1973 after the drought of 1972/73.    Not only
is industry, especially of course agro-based industry, affected by the reduced
availability of domestic raw materials, but it is also affected. indirectly by
reductions in pturchasing power and, to the extent that food imports preempt
scarce foreign exchange, by reducing the availability of imported raw materials
and components. The uncertain performance of the economy has led to under-
utilization of capacity as well as capacity constraints. Analysis of under-
utilization has been beset with definitional problems. While there are always
cases of reasonable investment decisions which have been frustrated by unfore-
seen economic factors, a significant part of underutilization has been
attributable to faulty investment decisions and, in same cases, to conflicting
policies. In the former context efforts to improve project evaluation are
important. The Bank Group has been closely associated with work in this
area through lending to financial institutions in India. So far as the
latter is concerned, the Government is tackling some of the anoimalies through
more emphasis on investment criteria and priorities.



- 9 -
28.       The scarcity of foreign exchange and the resulting shortage of
imported raw materials and components has been a continuing obstacle to more
rapid industrial growth and provides at least a partial explanation for the
low capacity utilization which plagues many branches of industry. Another
constraint that became critical during 1973 was the shortage_of,p owe   which
was mainly to blame for the reversal of the industrial recovery which had
started in 1972. Part of the problem was the low reservoir levels caused
by the failure of the monsoon in 1972 resulting in hydro-electric power
generation during January-September 1973 being nearly 14 percent lower than
in the corresponding period in 1972. But, over the same period, thermal
power generation was stagnant and substantial power cuts have had to be
imposed, even in those states which are not heavily dependent on hydro-
electric power, and these shortages have continued. The failure to
implement Fourth Plan schemes on time, poor maintenance of existing
facilities, and serious bottlenecks in transporting coal have been responsi-
ble for this state of affairs.
29.       In addition to these difficulties, there has been increasing
concern over the lack_of driverin-theeprivatesectQr..    The industrial
policy announcement of February 1973 represents a pragmatic attempt to
come to grips with this issue by easing some controls and, most important,
by removing uncertainties about implementation of policy. In November
1973 a single secretariat was established to coordinate and streamline the
various clearances required for investment decisions, and specific time
limits were set for such clearances; this reflects the growing awareness
of the negative effect of bureaucratic obstacles on investment. There is
also some indication that the encouragement of the small-scale sector may
become more selective in the future and concentrate on areas with real
growth potential. During 1973 there has also emerged a willingness to use
the price mechanism as a policy tool, as illustrated by the substantial
price increases introduced for many commodities including steel, petroleum
products, fertilizers, and cement. If sustained, this reliance on the price
mechanism should provide additional incentives for investment and also help
improve the profitability of public sector enterprises.
30.       Nevertheless, in the short term the task of raising industrial
production will be most difficult. While many of the factors which have
constrained industrial growth in recent years will continue to operate,
the situation is bound to become more difficult on account of the balance
of payments difficulties caused by the deterioration in India's terms of
trade. The Draft Fifth Plan, which was prepared prior to the more recent
increase in oil prices and which postulates a 9 percent annual growth rate
for industry, wiill_hasv-eto-berev.ised to-reflect-changed--investment priorities
and also to incorporate a more realistic growth target.    Major emphasis will
be placed on stppgup coalproduction and electricity-generation.         There
are limits to the extent to which coal production can be stepped up in the
next five years and the production target of 135 million tons by 1978/79
included in the Draft Fifth Plan - a virtual doubling in five years - may
represent the upper limit of what is feasible. In a situation where some
investments will have to be postponed, it will be more important than ever
to complete ongoing projects expeditiously and to make maximum use of
existing capacity in every sector of the economy. The proposed credit will



- 10 -
prove particularly valuable in serving the latter objective in t:he industrial
sector.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Previous Industrial Imports Credits
31.       Since 1964 the Association has extended eight credits totalling
US$780 million to India for financing imports of raw materials, components
and spares for use by manufacturers in certain high priority industries. In
response to changing requirements there have been some changes In the specific
industries covered by each credit. However, b:roadly speaking, ithe emphasis
throughout has been on manufacturers of agriculturaltsjLle            etrical
equiWM_nt, machine and   a   tr     andeport        u   ent.  The Association's
support in these fields has been instrumental in facilitating fuller use of
existing capacities. At the same time, the existence of an assured source of
foreign exchange has reduced the incentive for manufacturers in IDA assisted
sectors to keep large inventories of imported raw materials. Equally
valuable has been the flexibility provided by IDA financing as compared
with bilateral assistance which is often tied to procurement in donor
countries and this is illustrated by the growing number of countries, in-
cluding developing countries, which have benefited from disbursements under
these credits (Annex VIII).
32.       Inevitably IDA assisted secpg_s have been affected by the general
economic and industriai c     tions.   Nevertheless, the performance of these
sectors, on the whole, has been encouraging (Annex IX)     Therapidgrt
recent years of exports of automotive parts, machine and hand tools and
commercial vehicles and tractors is particularly welcome and indicates that
a growing number of manufacturers in these sectors are competitive (Annex X).
This was also confirmed by the findings of a special mission which in 1972
reviewed the commercial vehicle and tractor sectors and whose reports were
circulated last year (R 165-IN and R 166-IN of May 16, 1973).
33.       The last Industrial Imports Credit (Cr. 402-IN) for US$100 million
was signed on June 25, 1973. The closing date of the Credit is November 30,
1974. As of March 31, 1974, about US$15 million remained to be disbursed.
Import orders have been placed for the balance and the Credit should be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1974, well before the closing date.     Approval
of a further credit as this ti                       vernment to ensure an
uninterrupted flow of maintenance imports to the IDA sectors.
34.       Negotiations were held in Washington on April 18 and 19, 1974.
The Government of India was represented by Dr. A.K. Ghosh, Economic Adviser,
Directorate General of Technical Development, Mr. S. Guhan, Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Industrial Development, and Mr. M.R Shroff, Officer on Special
Duty, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance.



The Proposed Credit
35.       In addition to all the sectors included-in_the        ious credit .
manufacturer, ocD                         cables and wires would also Dartici-
p               lmsedxcred&t. The latter have also been included in some
earlier credits (Annex XI). There are specific industry related considera-
tions for proposing the inclusion of additional subsectors and these are
discussed below. It is, however, also worth noting that the expansion of
IDA assisted sectors would increase the flexibility of IDA financing and
thus be particularly valuable in the current balance of payments context.
36.       To render IDA assistance as flexible as possible, sectoral
allocations are not proposed wi                    f fer       r    d Desticides
manutacture   which would be limted to US$75 million     to avoid an unduly
large portion of the credit being utilized for    mport requirements of these
two sectors.  The ceiling for the fertilizer and pesticide sectors represents
a substantial increase over the ceiling of US$25 million set under the
previous credit. This change reflects the high priority for fertilizer
production and the extraordinary increase in the cost of fertilizer raw
materials.   The indicative allocations for the                 have been made
largely on the basis of experience with previous credits and modified to take
into account the anticipated availability of other sources of financing.
These indicative allocations are shown below. A comparative statement of
disbursements under previous credits is shown at Annex XI.



- 12 -
Indicative Allocations by Sector
Proposed Ninth Credit
As percentage
1974/75                    of Import
Import Requirement   Amount    Requirement
…---   (US$ million)-
A.   Raw materials, Components and
Spare Parts for Manufacturers
1. Tractors and Power Tillers            22            4           18
2. Fertilizers                          215           70           33
3.  Pesticides                           29            5           17
4.  Electrical Equipment (below 33 kv)-
Motors, Transformers, Switch-
gears, Magnetic Steel Stamp-
ings, Cables and Wires              86           21           24
5.  Aluminum Smelting                     7            1           14
6.  Commercial Vehicles                  44            9           21
7. Automotive Ancillaries                53           12           23
8.  Cast Iron Spun Pipes                  2            1           50
9. Machine, Cutting and Small Tools,
and Abrasives; Ball and Roller
Bearings                            35            9           26
10.  Heavy Construction Equipment         36            9           25
B.   Spare Parts for Heavy Construction
Equipment Dealers                        21            9           43
Total                    550         150            27
Source:   Annex XII.
Review of IDA-Assisted Sectors
37.       Prior to last year the appraisal of each credit entailed a review
of all IDA-Assisted sectors. Because of the large number of nanufacturing
units involved this was an increasingly difficult and inevitably superficial
procedure. Instead, starting with the Eighth Credit, the Association decided
to carry out a special survey of only one or two sectors at a time and briefly
to supplement this by updating the information on other sectors.    In connection
with the appraisal of the Eighth Credit, a mission assisted by qualified con-
sultants surveyed the commercial vehicle and tractor industrie.s. Their
findings and recommendations were discussed with the GovernmerLt and the
conclusions were made available to the manufacturers with whom a useful
dialogue has been held. Government found these discussions useful in
understanding the impact of policies on individual manufacturers, while
manufacturers have, in many cases, adopted the technical reconmendations on



- 13 -
plant management and product design. A brief summary of progress on the
recommendations is made in paragraphs 42 and 56, while Annex XIII sets out
some more details.
38.       Negotiation of previous credits has been taken as an opportunity
to discuss export performance and incentives with the Government. Exports of
engineering goods have increased at about 16 percent per annum over the three
years 1969/72, but the potential is far greater. While incentives are
generally reasonable, securing the benefits has in the past proved unneces-
sarily difficult. Further, export manufacturers faced serious problems when
local component manufacturers could not supply parts through temporary short-
falls, as the Government was reluctant to permit imports of items which could
be produced locally. In discussions, the Government has recognized these
problems and hitherto remedial action has been slow in coming. Nevertheless,
the Government has made improvements in the administration of incentives
and, most important, in 1973 introduced a scheme whereby export manufacturers
could import directly if local supplies were not available. While the
allowance granted is limited, this change represents an important first step
in meeting the needs of exporters. The Government has also introduced pro-
cedures which have facilitated the issue of import licenses to exporters.
39.       As part of the appraisal of the proposed credit the casting and
forging industry, which is critical to the success of a number of IDA
assisted sectors, has been surveyed. Two reports entitled "India-Survey
of the Steel Forging Industry," and "India - Survey of the Foundry Industry"
will be circulated to Executive Directors separately.
Tractors and Power Tillers
40.       After two years of stagnation, production of tractors increased
by about 12 percent from 18,200 in 1971/72 to 20,400 tractors in 1972/73,
and preliminary production figures indicate a further increase of 20 percent
in 1973/74. This encouraging development conceals some uneven performance
between individual firms. The recent introduction of new models by some
manufacturers has led to an improvement in quality. Imports of tractors
tiave been lower of late, so despite the increase in domestic production,
the availability of tractors in India declined from 31,500 in 1971/72 to
25,300 in 1972/73. Demand for imported tractors was affected by price in-
creases in 1972 resulting from the new import duties of 40 percent.
41.       Demand for tractors should improve considerably following the
good monsoon in 1973. At the same time the GOI has allowed tractor prices
to rise by about 10 percent to cover increases in production costs, which
will make domestic production more profitable and should therefore stimulate
expansion. GOI has also liberalized credit to farmers by reducing down
payments from 25 percent to 15 percent and by easing requirements for col-
lateral. About 30-35,000 tractors are now expected to be sold in 1974/75,
of which domestic production should supply about 29,000. Demand for power
tillers remains depressed because of farmer resistance.   The foreim e       ge
requirement for the tractor and power tiller industries is estimated at
Mzz million.



- 14 -
42.       This industry was the subject of a special survey under the
previous credit and a report (R66-IN of May 16, 1973) was circulated. The
survey recommended an increase in the price ceiling for domestic tractors
and, as already noted, this was introduced during 1973. The survey also
made a number of recommendations to individual manufacturers concerning
product design which are being implemented (Annex XIII).
Fertilizers
43.       Fertilizer consumption in India has increased from less than half
a million tons in 1962/63 to nearly 2.7 million tons in 1972/73. While
there is general agreement that fertilizer demand will continue to grow,
there are differences of opinion about the rate of growth. These differences,
however, are largely academic since over the next 5 years or sc, supply
is likely to fall short of requirements.
44.       Production of nitrogenous fertilizers has increased f'rom 238,000
tons in 1965/66 to an estimated 1.1 million tons in 1973/74, and of phosphatic
fertilizer from 120,000 tons to 0.4 million tons; but these increases have
not been commensurate with the investments made in installed capacity at the
end of 1972/73 of 1.7 million tons and 0.6 million tons respectively. Low
capacity utilization, long construction periods, out-of-date technology in
the case of some of the earlier plants, and poor maintenance have all tended
to limit output. Further the current economic difficulties, and particularly
the increase of petroleum prices, have serious implications for India. In
particular, the failure to produce enough fertilizers can only result in the
more costly alternatives of having to import finished fertilizers and/or
food. And yet to push ahead with new projects based on fuel oil will in-
crease dependence on oil imports. India's predicament is further complicated
by the fact that while coal-based plants have become a more economic alterna-
tive to fuel oil, and India has rich coal deposits, there are still problems
to be sorted out in coal-based fertilizer technology. Even more important,
domestic coal is bound to be in short supply, at least for the next 5 years.
Consequently, GOI has accepted a modification of fertilizer strategy which
would now include measures to achieve fuller capacity utilization in
existing plants; would press ahead with projects under construction which
could come into production within 3 years; and would use fuel oil as the
feedstock for new projects with provision, where feasible, for a later switch
to coal-based production.
45.       For 1974/75 the foreign exchange requirements of this sector are
estimated to be-7§M5 million primarily for imports of rock phosphate,
sulphur, phosphori-aih7mriate of potash, ammonia and spares.
Pesticides
46.       The use of pesticides has increased rapidly in recent years.    The
spread of high yielding wheat and rice varieties, which are more susceptible
to pests and diseases, is part of the explanation. Equally important has
been the Government's extension programs emphasizing the benefits of pesti-
cides. Despite increasing use, the application of pesticides is still quite



- 15 -
limited, 178 grams per hectare in 1973/74 as compared with 10 kilos in the
United States. Foreign exchange requirements in 1974/75 are estimated to
be US$29 million.
Electrical Equipment
47.       Summary notes on the principal eligible industries in this sector
are set out below. The main import requirement for the sector is copper.
Other items include steel sheet (for motors, transformers and stampings) as
well as insulating material (for motors and transformers). The total value
of these intermediate imports has fluctuated between US$40-50 million, but
is expected to rise to US$80 million in 1973/74, because of the sharp rise
in world market prices. This represents roughly 15 percent of the sector's
output value. Expected import requirements for 1974/75 are estimated at
US$86 million. As in previous years, IDA finance would only be made available
to the sector for needs below 33 KV, in order to avoid possible duplication
with our power transmission projects.
48.       Electric motors.  Demand, half of which originates in the agricul-
tural sector, is subject to rather wide fluctuations, but nevertheless the
output has expanded by an average of about 7 percent per annum over the last
seven years. Because of the irregular growth pattern and because the in-
dustry's installed capacity was significantly raised in the last two years,
utilization of existing capacity is now quite low at 65 percent. If the
electrification of tubewells proceeds at the pace envisaged in the draft Fifth
Plan, the demand for electric motors should remain strong in the next few
years. Exports have in the past been hindered by the bulkiness of local
models, but efforts are being undertaken to bring design more into line with
international standards.
49.       Transformers. Demand is dependent upon the power generation and
distribution programs being executed by State Electricity Boards. Produc-
tion in the last five years has increased steadily at an annual rate exceed-
ing 8 percent, but if the additional power generating capacity installed
during the Fifth Plan is to be anywhere near the target, the production of
transformers will have to more than double in the course of the coming
five years. The industry consists of 30 units, in both the public and
private sector, and there is unutilized capacity of about 25 percent. Fur-
ther expansion of capacity will be needed to meet projected demand. Imports
now represent only about 3 percent of domestic consumption.
50.       Switchgear.  Demand comes from both the power generating and
manufacturing sectors. Output, which had been fairly stagnant in the late
1960s picked up quite sharply in 1970/71 and 1971/72. Exports, particularly
under well-known brand names, are gradually becoming competitive in a number
of markets. Small-scale industry production is quite important, especially
for low-tension equipment.
51.       Cables and Wires.  This industry was eligible in the Second to
Fifth Industrial Imports Credits, but was dropped subsequently in favor of



- 16 -
some other high priority industries.  As the needs of the power sector must
now be met as a matter of urgency, this industry has been included again.
Items which would be eligible would include winding wires requi'red for motors
and transformers, PVC/VIR cables 1/ required for switchboard and signalling
equipment, and underground power cables. On the whole, India is virtually
self-sufficient in cables and wires. Only certain very speciaLized items,
including high-frequency cables, continue to be imported. To avoid possible
double financing with our telecommunication projects the Government's
telecommunications factories have been excluded from the list of eligible
firms. Exports, mainly to the Middle East and Eastern Europe, are still quite
small, amounting to less than 7 percent of the sector's output.,
52.       Steel Stampings.  Production generally moves in step with the
output of electric motors and transformers, but in 1972/73 production fell
sharply, because of power shortages, labor problems, and increaLsed production
in captive units. In view of the expected sharp rise in the production of
electric transformers in the next five years, annual production! should rise
from 30,000 tons in 1973/74 to 57,600 tons in 1974/75. At present the in-
dustry is working at 52 percent capacity.
Aluminum Smelting
53.       The industry is based on indigenous bauxite and has enjoyed high
capacity utilization, low production costs and rapid project inplementation.
Until 1972/73 this was one of India's most dynamic industries with produc-
tion increasing from 18,000 tons in 1961/62 to 180,000 tons in 1971/72. Then,
as a consequence of power shortages, production declined to 150,000 tons
in 1973/74; the forecast for 1974/75 is 200,000 tons. In utilizing existing
capacity, a careful balance will have to be struck between competing claims
on scarce power. Nonetheless, this industry produces an essential raw
material for power transmission and production at the level forecast for
1973/74 appears appropriate. The industry's total 1974/75 import require-
i,nents are estimated at US$7 million and consist primarily of raw materials
other than bauxite.
Commercial Vehicles
54.       Production of medium/heavy vehicles has shown only marginal
increases over the last three years on account of power and raw material
shortages, to reach an estimated 37,500 units in 1973/74. Expainsion programs
wiLl permit some increase in output in 1974/75, but significant increases
will only begin to be possible in 1975/76. Increases in production of
light-vehicles, jeeps and three-wheelers, from 1971/72 to 1973/74 have been
quite impressive (9 percent per annum for light vehicles and jeeps and about
27 percent per annum for three-wheelers); further increases are expected.
55.       The import requirements during 1974/75 are estimated at US$44 million.
The commercial vehicle industry is largely self-sufficient, with direct and
1/   PVC-covered and vulcanized India rubber-covered cables.



- 17 -
indirect imports accounting for only about 8 percent of total production
costs. The remaining inputs are procured locally, largely through a number
of ancillary industries, which together provide about 65 percent of the
gross value of commercial vehicles.
56.       This industry was the subject of a special survey under the previous
credit and a report (R65-IN of May 16, 1973) was circulated. The survey pre-
pared recommendations for individual manufacturers on plant improvement
programs, which for some manufacturers conformed with plans already envisaged.
A mission in 1973 followed up progress being made by manufacturers and
found that, in general, programs were being implemented (Annex XIII). In
the case of one manufacturer, there has been a quite remarkable improvement
in plant operation leading to the possibility that its products could become
internationally competitive. An especially important move on the part of
Government was to permit more free import of components, and in one case it
issued a license to import engines on account of local supply problems rather
than allow production to be held up.
Automotive Ancillaries
57.       Summary notes on ancillary industries are set out below.   Import
requirements for automotive ancillary industries include steel, non-ferrous
metals, and chemicals, and in 1974/75 are expected to reach US$53 million.
58.       Automotive components and parts. Until recently the industry ex-
panded rapidly, more than doubling the value of its output between 1965/66
and 1971/72. However, in 1972/73 a decline of 17 percent was registered,
largely because of power shortages and labor unrest. Production in 1973/74
is estimated to have remained low, but there should be some recovery, if
raw materials can be made available. The import content of automotive
components amounts on the average to 13 percent, consisting mainly of
steel and non-ferrous metals.
59.       Storage batteries. Output has been affected by the power shortage
which was particularly acute in 1973, with the industry working at only
75 percent of its capacity. At the moment, the major constraint is the
shortage of lead which has to be imported. Long-term prospects for output
are good, especially if full advantage is taken of existing export opportuni-
ties.
60.       Tires.  Output has continued to expand steadily, and is estimated
to have reached 5 million units in 1973/74. This compares to an installed
capacity for a yearly production of 5.8 million units. Further expansion
will thus soon become imperative. The industry continues to be dependent
upon the import of synthetic rubber to supplement local production. The
one existing local unit produces rubber on the basis of alcohol extracted
from sugarcane molasses and therefore its output is very much dependent on
the agricultural situation, which explains the sizable drop in synthetic
rubber production during the 1972/73 drought. Production should pick up
again in 1974/75.



- 18 -
Cast Iron Spun Pipes
61.       This is the first time that the cast iron spun pipes :lndustry
has been proposed for inclusion under an Industrial Imports Credit. Total
installed capacity is about 468,000 tons/year of which about 30 percent is
in one public sector firm; the remainder is divided among 8 private sector
firms with an average capacity of 39,000 tons/year. The structure of the
industry is such that enterprises can secure the economies of scale that
characterize this industry. The major use of these pipes is in water
supply systems and so the industry's fortunes have been closely tied to
municipal investment in this sector. Because investment in social services
is among thte first to suffer during periods of economic difficulty, output
has fluctuated over the years resulting in periods of low utilization.
Nevertheless, the industry is competitive and it has started to export to
the Middle East and South Asia, although the volume is still quite modest.
Despite the prospects of financial stringencies affecting the social sectors
in the immediate future, production is expected to be about 300,000 tons/year
in 1974/75. The foreign exchange requirement for pipe moulds and pipe mould
lubricants at this production level is estimated at about US$2 million.
Macihine, Cutting and Small Tools, and Abrasives; Ball and Roller Bearings
62.       Separate summary notes on these industries are set out below.
Import requirements consist mainly of alloy steels, fittings and abrasives,
and amounted to an estimated US$31 million in 1973/74; in 1974/75 they are
expected to reach US$35 million.
63.       Machine tools.  The sector's production, which had remained fairly
stagnant at a level of Rs. 250 million between 1965/66 and 1969/70, has
picked up considerably since 1970/71, and in both 1971/72 and 1972173 the
value of output has exceeded Rs. 500 million. The bulk of the industry is
workfng at nearly full capacity. Import substitution has proceeded at a
rapid pace, with the proportion of imported machine tools declining from
more than 60 percent of consumption in 1967/68 to 30 percent in. 1972/73.
Existing expansion plans should meet the expected doubling in domestic
demand during the Fifth Plan period, and should allow for a comsiderable
increase in exports which have lagged somewhat of late.
64.       Cutting Tools, small tools and abrasives.   In these relatively
iabor-intensive lines India has become competitive in international markets
anid demand is increasing rapidly, in India as well as abroad. In fact,
export performance has been a success-story, with exports almost tripling
in the last three years, and with the share of exported output rising from
7 percent in 1969/70 to 15 percent in 1972/73.
65.       Ball and roller bearings.   The industry has total production
capacity of 22.6 million units a year and has been expanding rapidly with
production rising at an annual rate of 14 percent. Capacity ut:ilization has
been very high.



- 19 -
Heay Earth-Moving Equipment
66.       Large scale production only began in the second half of the.1960s
and sinca 1969/70 annual growth has averaged 20 percent in terms of units.
Equipment: produced is generally of modern design and the manufacturers'
production methods and systems are comparable with the best in developed
countries. The industry's products are in strong demand for general
construction work throughout the country, especially works such as roads
and irrigation. Given the quality and modern design of most of the
models produced and with the improving economies of scale, it is quite likely
that exports should become significant by the end of the decade.. Import
content has averaged 35 percent over the past few years and is expected
temporarily to increase to 40 percent in response to the requirements of
new types of units. Import requirements in 1974/75 are expected to be
about US$36 million.
Spare Parts for Construction Equipment
67.       The original value of India's construction equipment is estimated
to total about US$480 million, most of which is owned by the Government.
India has been dependent upon foreign aid for financing capital equipment
imports with the result that the equipment population consists of an array
of many makes and models. A census conducted by the Central Water & Power
Commission (CWPC) in 1973 found among irrigation projects surplus spare
parts of about US$9 million, of which a considerable proportion was for
equipment which was obsolete or had already been disposed of. And yet, a
considerable amount of equipment lies idle for want of spares. The importance
of an assured supply of foreign exchange for spares is illustrated by the
C1PC Census which found that on the average irrigation project there was
equipment utilization of only about 40 percent; on Bank Group projects the
utilization rate is about 60 percent, which is near optimum under existing
weather conditions.
Administration of the Credit
68.       As in previous credits, the firms eligible to utilize the proposed
credit would be the medium and large scale enterprises registered with the
Directorate General of Technical Development (DGTD), and others as notified,
in the sectors to be assisted by IDA. At present there are approximately
800 eligible firms. Imports of raw materials and components by these firms
would be effected either through direct procurement by the firms themselves
against import licenses issued to them, or through public sector trading,
or as they are known in India, Canalising Agencies, against release orders
issued to the firms. The Government has given the Canalising Agencies ex-
clusive rights to import certain commodities which are suited to bulk orders;
in addition agencies will procure for firms when requested. Items imported
directly by eligible firms will not be subject to any special procurement
procedures as these firms can be expected to make purchases on the best terms
to meet their circumstances. In today's world of rapidly rising prices, the
Canalising Agencies perform a valuable function through placement of bulk
import orders and through supply contracts covering longer periods than



- 20 -
individual firms could afford. As in previous credits, the Association and
GOI have agreed that for orders over US$100,000 Canalising Agencies would
secure offers from at least three suppliers. In practice, items supplied by
Canalizing Agencies are usually procured through international competitive
bidding. In certain cases, after receipt of bids under international compe-
titive bidding, additional long term supply contracts have been negDtiated
on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid. Exceptionally, the Canalising
Agencies adopt international shopping procedures, in particular when items
are only available from a limited number of suppliers.
69.       The Association has also reviewed for the purposes of this credit,
the documentation which accompanies withdrawal applications. Each applica-
tion from a Canalising Agency has documentation on the beneficiary firm to
receive the goods and details of the goods ordered. With about 800 eligible
firms and a multiplicity of items required for these industries, the handling
of this documentation is reaching proportions which are becoming difficult to
manage. Consequently, it is proposed that withdrawal applications should be
accompanied only by the standard documentation of evidence of payment and
shipment and supplier's invoice; Canalising Agencies will certify that pro-
curement of goods, for which reimbursement is being sought, was conducted
in accordance with procedures agreed in the Development Credit Agreement.
These certificates will be forwarded with withdrawal applications. The
Canalising Agencies will retain details on procurement which will be exam-
ined by the Association post facto during review missions.
70.       It is estimated that about US$90 million of the proposed credit
would be disbursed against imports of these agencies. The monthly utiliza-
tion of the proceeds of the IDA credit should be of the order of US$15-20 mil-
lion.  The credit would be made to GOI on standard IDA terms and GOI would
make the foreign exchange proceeds of the credit available through the Re-
serve Bank of India to the specified beneficiaries, which wouldl purchase
foreign exchange with rupee funds through authorized banks. The credit
would not involve any financing of beneficiaries.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving the
proposed credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
No special conditions of effectiveness are proposed.
72.       The special features described in paragraphs 68 and 159 of this
report are reflected in Schedule 4 (Procurement) of the Draft Development
Credit Agreement. In all other respects the Draft Development Credit Agree-
ment follows the pattern used for industrial credit projects generally and
is in conformity with credits previously approved for India in this sector.



- 21 -
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7, 1974






ANNEX I
Page 1
COUNTRY DATA - INDIA
AREA                                                  POPULATION                                                       DENSITY
3,268,580 km-/                                        577 million (mid-1973)                                            177 per k.2/
Rate of growth: 2.23% (from 1961 to 1971)                        350 per km of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1971)                                                           HEALTH
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)               38 (est)                                         Population per physician (1971) 4,000 (est)
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)               16 (est)                                         Population per hospital bed (1968/69) 1,826
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)   120-140 (est)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1967/68)                                                               DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (1954/55)
% of consumption, lowest quintile   rural 8% (est)     urban  7% (eat)                      % owned by top 7% owners           52% (est)
% of consumption, highest quintile  rural 41% (est)    urban 44% (est)                      % owned by smallest 25% of owners   1% (est)
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                                                ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1971)
% of population - urban     n.a.                                                            % of population - urban     n.a.
% of population - rural     n.a.                                                            % of population - rural     n.a.
NUTRITION (1960 - 69)                                                                       EDUCATION
Calorie intake as % of requirements        83 (est)                                         Adult literacy rate % (1971)            36 b/
Per capita protein intake (gr. per day)    55 (est)                                         Primary school enrollment % (1969/70)   79 -
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1970  : US  $ 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Bln.    %                                        1961/62-1965/66   1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1972/73
GNP at Market Prices                    63.6      100.0                                           3.3               4.7             2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                9.3       114.6
Gross National Saving                    8.6       13.5
Current Account Balance                  0.7        1.1
Resource Gap                             0.5        0.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)                              Labor Force      V.A. Per Woker
US Bln_                              Min.             U       of Natio .   Average
Agriculture                         19.J              42.6                                 129.9    72.0      11J9          47
Industry                            13.3              23.3                                  20.2   11.2      658           208
Services                            24.3              34.1                                  30.2   16.8       85           255
Total/average                       57.0             100.0                                 180.3  100.0      3             100
GOVEHNMEI.T FINANCE                                           e/
General Government                                         Central Government
zR of NPRa. 8ln                                                                Of GNP
191972/73972/73 15T9 70      79727                        1971/72       1971/72      1970/71CF972773
Current Receipts                    78.71         17.0         16.1                            16.04         10.0           9.3
Current Expenditures                80.78         17.5         16.2                            5.66          10.0           9.2
Current Surplus/DeficT             - 2.07        -0           _-.1                              0.38          -             0.1
Capital Expenditures -              26.21          5.7          5.5                           19.84           4.3           4.0
External Assistance (net)            3.30          0.7          0.8                             3.30          0.7           0.8
a/  Population of 10 years and over; extracted from 1% sample data of the 1971 Census.
b/ Official estimate: probably overestimates actual enrollment of age group 6 - 11 by one-fifth.
c/  The per capita GNP estimate is at 1970 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1972 World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
d/ Estimates.
e/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 2
COUNTRY DATA - INDIA
MONEY, CREDIT AZ1D PRICES                             1965/66    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73   December  1972   December   1973
(Billion Rs. outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                                   61.14      93.3      105.6      122.3      11.6.3        135.3            162.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            40.8       52.14      56.9       63.9       82.7          78.2             91.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           23.1       68.3       56.7       64.4       73.1          71.4             81.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
1965/66    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73   February 1973     February 1974
Money and Quasi Money as 5 of GDP                       26.0   .   24.1       26.7       26.8       23.5
Wh.olesale Price Index (1961/62=100)                   131.6      171.6      181.1      188.6      207.0         217.4            274.3
Anrnulal percentage changes in:
'Wholesale Price Index                                   7.6        3.7        5.5        4.0        9.9                            26.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            12.9        1.5        8.6       21.1       20.0                            16.6
hank Credit to Private Sector                           12.8       15.1       17.6       13.6       13.5                            14.3
BAILACE OF PA)l42ITS
1971/72    1972/73    1973/74     MERCHAIPDISE EXPORTS (AVEilAG  1970/71-1972/73)
(Million US $)?(Est.r3                               US   Mln. 
Exports of Goods                                      2,138       2,545      2,890      Jute Manufactures             311           14
Imports of Goods                                                  2,590      3,545      Tea                           200            9
Trade Balance                                         - 289       - 45       - 655      Cotton Textiles                170           8
NFS (net)                                                10          26       n.a.      Iron Ore                       167           6
Resource Gap                                          - 279       - 19        n.a.      Engi.neering Goods            167            7
Interest Payments (net)                               - 230       - 213       e.a.      Others                       _258          56
Other Factor Payments (net)                               7           5       n.a.      Total            Z2,23                     170
Net Transfers                                           111          84
Balance on Current Account                              405       - 322       n.a.      EXTiRNIAL DEBT, March 31, 1973
Os $ MLn
Official Aid (incl. grants)
Hepayable in foreign currency             9, 292
Disbursements                                      1,089         896      1,305      Repayable through export Df
Amortization                                       - 385       - 408        459        goods                                     560
Total Outstanding and Disbursed           9,852
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1973/74           24.2 percent
Increase in Reser-re ()- 225                                       -   34     - 115
Gross Reserves (end year)                              1,277       1,311      1,426
Net Reserves (end year)                                1,277       1,311      1,426     1BRD/IDA LENDIRG    March 31, 1974    (US; Min.)
Fuel and Related Materials
1B80        IDA
Imports                                                  262         265        625                                       IRID
of which: Petroleum                                    261         265        625     Outstanding and Disbursed          462      1,670
Exports                                                   11          41       ..a.     Undisbursed                         97        898
of which: Petroleum                                      9          37       n.a.     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      559      2,568
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to nid-December 1971 : US $ 1.00 = Rs. 7.5
is.  1.00 = US $ 0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to       : US $ 1.00 = Ns. 7.27927
end June 1972             Rs.  1.00 = US $ 0.137376
After end June i 972       : Floating Bate
Spot Rate (April 19, 1974): approx. US $ 1.00 = Rs. 7.96
approx. Its. 1.00 = US $ 0.126
a/ Amortization and interest payments as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1974)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No. Year Borrower               Purpose                      BANK     IDA   Undisbursed
37 Loans/
25 Credits fully disbursed                                           993.6  1,218.1
89-IN      1966   India   Beas Equipment                            -       23.0       1.1
614-IN      1969   India   Tarai Seeds                              13.0      -         9.9
176-IN      1970   India   Kadana Irrigation                         -       35.0      u.8
683-IN      1970   ICICI   Industries DFC VIII                      40.0      -         1.5
191-IN      1970   India   Gujarat Agricultural Credit               -       35.0       2.8
203-IN      1970   India   Punjab Agricultural Credit                -       27.5      27.3
226-IN      1971   India   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit        -       24.4      10.3
230-IN      1971   India   Agro-Aviation                             -        6.o       6.o
241-IN      1971   India   Telecommunications IV                     -       78.0      40.6
242-IN      1971   India   Power Transmission II                     -       75.0      73.8
249-IN      1971   India   Haryana Agricultural Credit               -       25.0      16.9
250-IN      1971   India   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit            -       35.0      12.9
264-IN      1971   India   Cochin II Fertilizer                      -       20.0      12.3
267-IN      1971   India   Wheat Storage                             -        5.0       4.9
268-IN      1971   India   Pochampad Irrigation                      -       39.0      17.3
789-IN      1971   ICICI   Industry DFC IX                          60.0      -        20.3
278-IN      1972   India   Mysore Agricultural Credit                -       40.0      28.7
279-IN      1972   India   Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion            -       10.0       6.6
280-IN      1972   India   Railways XI                               -       75.0        .9
293-IN      1972   India   Maharashtra Agricultural Credit           -       30.0      18.7
294-IN      1972   India   Bihar Agricultural Markets                -       14.0      14.0
312-IN      1972   India   Population                                -       21.2      20.9
328-IN      1973   India   Shipping                                  -       83.0      10.9
342-IN      1972   India   Education Project                         -       12.0      12.0
356-IN      1972   India   IDBI                                      -       25.0      25.o
357-IN      1973   India   Nangal Fertilizer Expansion               -       58.0      53.9
377-IN      1973   India   Power Transmission III                    -       85.0      85.0
378-IN      1973   India   Mysore Agricultural Markets               -        8.0       8.o
902-IN      1973   ICICI   Industry DFC X                           70.0      -        65.4
390-IN      1973   India   Bombay Water Supply                       -       55.0      54.4
391-IN      1973   India   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit        -       33.0      32.9
392-IN      1973   India   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit         -       38.0      36.3
402-IN      1973   India   Industrial Imports VIII                   -      100.0      15.4
403-IN      1973   India   Telecommunications V                      -       80.0      80.0
427-IN      1973   India   Calcutta Urban Development                -       35.0      35.0
440-IN      1973   India   Bihar Agricultural Credit                 -       32.0      32.0
448-IN      1973   India   Railways XII                              -       80.0      76.1
456-IN      1974   India   Himachal Pradesh Apple Proc & Marketing   -       13.0*     13.0
Total                                                            1,176.6  2.573.2
of which has been repaid                                    615.9
Total now outstanding                                              560.7
Amount sold                                       111.5
of which has been repaid                   110.2              1.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 1 10.F72_
Total Undisbursed (including *)                                     97.1    897.7     994.8
* Not yet effective
j Prior to exchange adjustments.



NNEX II
IPage 2
B.   STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1974)
Amoimt US$
miLlion
Year                  Company                    Loan         Equity        Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.         1.5            -            1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.          0.9                         0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.               1.4            -            1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                   0.2                         0.2
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.       0.7           0.3           1.0
1964         Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.        0.8           0.4           1.2
1964         Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.       2.3           1.0            3.3
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.           1.0          0.3            1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.             1.0           0.1           1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.              8.6           2.9           11.5
1969-70       Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.           15.1           3.8          18.9
TOTAL                               33.5          8.8           42.3
Less: Sold                           6.o          1.6            7.6
Repaid                        6.4            -            6.4
Cancelled                     6.2           .1            6.3
Now held                            14.9          7.1           22.0
Undisbursed                          1.8           .6            2.4



ANNEX II
Page 3
1
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 683   Eighth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Projects; US$40.0 million loan of June 3, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1974
In No. 789   Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
In No. 902   Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Pro ect; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. The first two loans are fully
committed, and disbursements under Loan 789-IN are ahead of schedule.
Cr No. 89    Beas Equipment; US$23.0 million credit of June 29, 1966;
Closing Date: June 30, 1974
The purpose of this credit is to provide part of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment and services required to develop hydro-
electric power from the Beas River, to extend irrigation in the Punjab and
Rajasthan and for associated construction works. The project, which has been
subject to some       , is part of a larger scheme for the integrated develop-
ment of the      r  rivers of the Indus Basin.  The closing date of December 31,
1972, has been postponed for the second time to June 30, 1974.
In No. 614   Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1974
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in the
development of seeds of high yielding varieties. The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality. Seed
production is meeting targets. Implementation problems over processing plant
construction and land-levelling have been resolved. Expansion of an existing
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
PagT
processing plant is in progress, and tenders for a new plant are under
preparation. Large scale land-leveIlng demonstrations have stimulated
demand for such work and orders are to be placed shortly by contractors
for imported machinery.
Cr No. 176   Kadana Irrigation;  US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of K-dana Dam on
the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the [am. The project
also includes field channel construction, land levelling, drainage works and roads
and a program to support agricultural development. The project will be completed
about two years behind schedule because of delays on dam construction.  The agri-
cultural components of the project are also-E3ie  ifEdsedule. Some of the delays
in implementation have occurred at the start of the project, before major invest-
ments have been made. These will not affect the economic justification of the
project. Further delays have occurred as a result of material shortages in the
present construction season, and the need for additional spillwa:T construction.
If material shortages are not relieved and the additional spillway construction
is not started forthwith, the resulting delays could affect the economic justi-
fication of the project.
Cr No. 191   Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit
of June 3, 1970; Closing Date:   June 30, 1974
Cr No. 203   Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24  1970; Closing Date:   December 31, 197
Cr No. 226   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project;  US$24.b million
credit of January 8, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1974
Cr No. 249   Haryana Agricultural Credit Proj.ect;  US$25.0 million credit
of June 11 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr No. 250   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project;  US$35.0 million credit
of June 11  1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Cr No. 278   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Closing Date:   October 31, 1975
Cr No. 293   Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project;  US$30.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 197       7   5
Cr No. 391   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr No. 392   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million credit
of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr No. 440   Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit of
November 29  1973   Closing Date: June 30   1977



ANNEX II
Page 5
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million
and are all effective except for the Bihar credit. Apart from the Punjab
project, which consists of mechanization equipment only, all are similar
in structure being designed to provide long and medium-term credit to
farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported
tractors, minor irrigation and land-levelling. Disbursement of thesecredits
started s        So far as the minor irrigation components were concerned,
the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional requirements, in particular
the introduction of changes in lending criterla   dtm           s and the
strengthening of institutions responsible for assessing groundwater availability.
These constraints have now been overcome and disbursements are accelerating,
reflecting high demand for minor irrigation investments spurred by the ex-
perience of last year's drought. Tractor procurement has been delayed follow-
ing the substantial change in both the supply and demand situations since the
projects were originally appraised. It has recently been agreed that the
credits should be amended to permit the financing of indigenously manufactured
tractors as well as imported tractors and that some funds earmarked for tractors
should be reallocated to minor irrigation components.
Cr No. 230   Agro Aviation; US$6.0 million credit of January 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974
The project was designed to improve facilities for aerial spraying
of pesticides as part of India's plant protection program. So far no dis-
bursements have taken place because the Government has been considering the
procurement arrangements for the importation of aircraft. Bids have now been
received and are being evaluated.
Cr No. 267   Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and 10
silos (200,000 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study. Warehouse
construction is about 75 percent complete and preparations for silo construction
are progressing. The Government Food Ministry intends to select a local research
institute in the near future to conduct the study.
Cr No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apples Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project has been designed to promote the development of apple
production in Himachal Pradesh and comprises, roads, cold storage, juice
processing, and marketing. The conditions of effectiveness have to be ful-
filled by July 22, 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr No. 241   Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Cr No. 403   Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25  1273;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Both projects are continuations of Telecommunications III. Tele-
communications IV has been designed to support the telecommunications expan-
sion program over the last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74). Procurement
action for delivery of imported goods in 1973/74 has been largely completed.
Production problems in local factories delayed initial disbursement by about
6-9 months. However, production has now picked up and as of February 28, 1974,
US$35.3 million had been disbursed under the credit. Full disbursement is
expected by the closing date of December 1974. Telecommunications V was declared
effective on July 30, 1973.
Cr No. 242   Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr No. 377   Power Transmission III Pro.ject; US$85.0 million credit of May 9,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project financed
by Loan 416-IN, has been designed to assist in financing the purchase of equip-
ment and materials required to develop a power transmission program in nine
States under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred because of
problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for international
bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids involved, but contract
awards have now been made for much of the major equipment. Disbursements
started in June 1973 and should be completed by the closing date of September 30,
1975. Power Transmission III became  effective on October 10, 1973.
Cr No. 268  /Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of Augusl; 23,
A 1971; Closing Date: March 31 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.
Until mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with
construction and Credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute
=                        materiL;s, especially explosives for the canal
excavation, has since hampered progress. As a result, construction of the
main canals is now likely to fall more than one year behind schedule. This
in turn is likely to delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40C percent
of the project area and may-have a e     o adverse effect on the rate of return,
which is now being examined. Land development is presently haphazard and
nrei;y          `g      d  water availability in the project. Government is
aware of the inadequacy of the credit operation for land development and has
requested IDA financing for a Command Area Development Project (CAD), to be
implemented by a Central Authority for all farmers in need of land development.
The project will include the setting up of a well-coordinated technical and
administrative organization backed by suitable legal measures. Project pre-
paration is underway and appraisal scheduled for November 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr No. 264   Cochin Fertilizer;  US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30. 1975
Cr No. 279   Gorakhpur Fertilizer;   US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975'
Cr No. 357   Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project;   US$58.0 million credit of
February 9. 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the expansion
of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is now proceeding
about six,l  months be Ind sedule.  Response to tenders has been disappointing
and procurement difficulties and la        5e- P_a_Zditlonalde lays.
As of F11reb ry 297)4, US$6.6 million had been disbursed under the Credit.
The engineering design for the Gorakhpur Fertilizer project is well advanced
and virtually all the equipment has been ordered. Although delivery of some
equipment may take longer than forecast during appraisal, the project is
progressing without serious difficulties. Engineering work and procurement
for Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr No. 280   Railways XI;  us$75.o million credit of January 24   1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1974
Cr No. 448   Railways XII;  US$80 million credit of December 21, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
These projects consist of new and ongoing works in the Indian
investment program. The first of these credits is almost fully disbursed. The
second was declared effective on February 26, 1974.
Cr No. 294   Bihar Agricultural Markets;   US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr No. 378   Mysore Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31 * 1979
Bihar Agricultural Markets, which will help to finance the establish-
ment of wholesale markets in about 50 towns, was declared effective on July 31,
1972. A supervision mission visited the project in February and reported good
progress in the selection, design and appraisal of individual market sub-projects.
Disbursements are expected to begin within the next few months. Mysore Whole-
sale Agricultural Markets became effective on September 7, 1973.
Cr No. 312   Population;  US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;    Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit, which will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka (Mysore) and Uttar Pradesh, was declared
effective on May 9, 1973. Project implementation is gaining momentum; all key
project staff have been appointed and the construction program is under way.



ANNIX II
Page 8
Cr No. 328   Shi.ping; US$83 million credit of September 27    1972; Closing
Date: June-30C 19L5
This project for financing four crude oil tankers and two product
carriers is ahead of schedule. There may be a two month delay in delivery of
two product tankers, but the four crude carriers will be delivered six months
prior to the contract date.
Cr No. 342   Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This credit became effective on June 8, 1973. The project units
of the two universities have been staffed with project architects. A campus
planner for Assam Agricultural University is still needed. Additional land
at the site for the main campus of the university in Bihar has st;ill to be
acquired, but no problems are anticipated.
Cr No. 356   Industrial Development Bank of India;  US$25.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This credit became effective on June 22, 1973. A review mission
has just returned and reports that after a slow start, satisfactcry progress
can now be expected.
Cr No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewe re Project;    US$55.0 million credit
of January 22, 1974;  Closing Date:  December 31, 15'7
Project implementation is about nine months in arrear, due to a
delay in appointing the principal consultants. Bidding for principal material
requirements commenced in October 1973 and will continue for the next six/nine
months. Project completion is now expected to be in 1979, instead of 1978.
Cr.No. 402   Eighth Industrial Imports Project;  US$100.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Closing Date: November 30, 1974
This credit was declared effective on July 30, 1973 andl US$85
million had been disbursed by March 31, 1974.
Cr No. 427   Calcutta Urban Development Project;  US$35.0 million credit of
September 12, 1973;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum re-development proposa:L and a site
and services scheme. Conditions of effectiveness for this portion are to be
fulfilled by May 31, 1974.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                         India acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:                   Approximately 800 medium-and large-scale
enterprises in selected priority industries.
Amount:                           US$150 million.
Terms:                            Standard
Project Description:              To enable selected priority industries to
maintain and expand their production by
supplying part of their requirements of
foreign exchange for imports of raw materials,
components, and spares.
Cost of Project:                      US$ million
Total Foreign                  % of IDA
Sector                        Exchange Requirements  Credit  Participation
Raw Materials, Components and
Spare Parts for Manufacturers
1. Tractors and Power Tillers             22              4         18.2
2. Fertilizers                           215             70         33
3. Pesticides                             29              5         17.2
4. Electrical Equipment (below 33 kv),
Motors, Transformers, Switchgears,
Magnetic Steel Stampings, Cables
and Wires                              86             21         2h.4
5. Aluminium Smelting                      7              1         14.3
6. Commercial Vehicles                    4L              9         21
7. Automotive Ancillaries                53              12         23
8. Cast Iron Spun Pipes                    2              1         50.0
9. Machine, Cutting and Small
Tools, and Abrasives;
Ball and Roller Bearings               35              9         26
10. Heavy Construction Equipment           36              9         25.0
11. Spare Parts for Heavy Construc-
tion Equipment Dealers                 21              9         43
TOTAL                               550            150         27



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursement:              About US$15-20 million per mDnth.
Procurement Arrangements:            Approximately 60 percent of imports financed
by the Association will be pnrcured by Canalising
Agencies which are Government trading corpora-
tions, on behalf of industria:L enterprises and
the balance by the individual enterprises. In
the case of Canalising Agencies, for all orders
in excess of US$100,000 equivalent, these Agencies
will secure offers from at least three suppliers.
In practice, items supplied bv Canalising Agencies
are usually procured through international com-
petitive bidding or exceptionally through
international shopping when appropriate.



ANNEX IV
INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US   million)
1968/69      1969/70      1970/71       1971/72      1972/73      1973/74
(Estimate
Merchandise Exports               1,810        1,884        1,950        2,160 /      2,545 /       2,890
Merchandise Imports /           -2,522        -2,148       -2,311       -2,572       -2,590       -3,h55
Debt Service                      -500         -550          -60o         -615         -682         -700
(of which, to
Consortium                   (406)        (434)         (465)        (512)        (561)       (610)
Other)                         (94)        (116)        (135)        (103)        (121)        (90)
Credit Transactions with IMlF      -62         -157         -183            -            -           75
Gross Aid Disbursements          1,259         1,188        1,096        1,089          896       1,305
(of which, from
Consortium                 (1,145)      (1,068)       (1,019)      (1,060)        (8552      (1,100)
Other)                       (114)        (120)          (77)         (29)         (41)        (205)
Miscellaneous Capital and                                                               1      35 
Invisibles (Net) ,/            66          9og             5          163/        -135           s   /
Use of Reserves (- = increase)      -51         -326           43         -225          -34          -Il5
Reserve Level at end of Period      769        1,095        1,052        1,277        1,311         1,426
Note: Except for 1973/74, data for all other years are actuals.
a/ Adjusted for over-recording of exports.
b/ Includes aid-financed exports to Bangladesh.
i Adjusted for ander-recording of imports.
v/ Includes errors and omissions.
e/ Includes receipt of refugee assistance of US $ 230 million.
.L Includes aid to Bangladesh of US X 31 million in 1971/72, US 5 131 million in 1972/73, and
US S 10 million (estimated) in 1973/74.
/ Does not include the possibility of change in reserves due to currency revaluations.
Sources: 1) Merchandise trade figures are taken from the Department of Commercial Intelligence and
Statistics, Monthly Statistics of Foreign Trade Volume I & II. The import figures
however have been adjusted for under-recording of imports.
2) Aid & Debt statistics are from the Ministry of Finance and the IBRD Debtor Reporting
System.
3) Credit Transactions with the IMF, the use of reserves, and level of reserves data are
from the various issues of the monthly "International Financial Statistics" published
by the IMF.
4) Other items have been determined as residual.






ANNEX V
INDIA
NINTN. INDUSTIAL. IMPORTS CREDIT
AID AN1D DEBT STATISTICS.11958/59 - 1973/74 LI
(USi    illin)
1358/5   1959/60   1960/61   1961/62  1962/63  1963/64   1964/65   1965/66  1966/67  1967/65  1968/69  1969/70   1970/71  1971/72   _972/75 4975/7
I onsortiien iRhoters
Iron- Diil..r.ee.nt     6 50      65        838      660      870     1.138    1.544     1,481     1.413    1,503    1.146    1,068     1,019    1.060    B65S    2110
Of wh ich:
Pr.ejct Aid        435        401       449      468      611       748       873      968      422       301      303      204      247       325     358      496
'lon-ProeCt Aid                                                                                 428      689       549      584      573       579     497      604
Feod Aid and N-n
Fend iL 480        195       204       389      192       259      390       471      513      563       513      294      280       199      156
Debt Service             26        45       108      175      160       188       252      292      302       333      406      434      465       512     561      610
Net Irnorfer            604       560       7W3      485       710      950     1,112    1.189    1,111     1.170      740      654      25d4      5468    .54      490
h/
Debt 1ernice Datie(f)   2.2       3.8       8.5     13.5      12.9     13.2      16.4     21.4      24.4     25.7     27.8     29.0      30.1     30.5    31.3       28.l
II  Non-leneertiolm A nontriens
Green Diebelroegelte    9(;?       .2        25       54       12       115       172      1546       96       95      114      12         77       29      41      25
Of which:
Prejent Aid                                                                                      85        84      107      110        74       27      41
90        12         25       54       72      113        172      126
Noe-Prject Aid                                                                                    3         1        1        1
Feod Aid -.d Non
Fe'od PL 480       ..         ..        ..       ..       ..       ..         ..       10       10        10        5        9         3        2
'ebt Sernice            11         15        14       16       23        25        26       23       53       111       94      116       135      102     121       90
lilt Tr-nefer            29       _ 5        1t       53        .2       90       146      113       59       -16       19      4i        -5      - 75    _ 80      11Ž
Debt Service lloio(')   11.0     14.0      12.5      12.1     11.3     10.3       8.6       7.0     20.7     36.9     26.5      28.3     28.0     22.3     15.3      12.5
:I    Tetzl Coenr-ti- & Non-Conserti_m
Croon Di3bursene-n..ts  72        617       G65      714       4i    1.253      1.516    1.617   12511      1,595    1.259     1.188    1.096    1.089      D 6    1305
Of which:
Pro.ect Aid                                                                                      507      385      410      514       321      352     399       520
525       413        474      522      682      863      1,045    1,094
I:oe-P'roject Aid                                                                               431       69o      550      583       373      575     497       265
Food Ai., -ed Noln-
Foed PL 480        195       204       389      192       259      390       471      523      575       523      299      289       202      158
leit Sernice             37        60       122      151      182       213       258      315       365      444      500      550      600       615     682       700
Net Tranofer            68        52        .774t    527 1I5          1.146     129       .5      2.1S4     .i54       I759  t   3i      4696      A4      214       605
Debt Se-ico  dctie(,)   2.9       4.6       8.8     13.4      12.7     12.8      15.1     18.6      23.7     27.8     27.6     28.9      29.6     28.8    26.2        24.2
^/ All figuren intl,ode preject and ne-preject lJons (with debt relief shoen es a nen-peeject disb-rsenent), food aid, and non-food FL 480 (accePt PL 480 Title II).
Pigores for 1966/67 threogh 1973/76 aloe have partial coverage of pr-jeet and non-preject g8ants. Clverage of food aid ntatisti-s nay be inc-pleete.
D/ Sebt cornice divided by merchandise erport earnings. For the Consortio    , the debt se-vice ratio baa been calculated with re-pect to total on-vertible
*urreecy export eernings; for the en.-Con-otium, with -espeet to exports to the r-pee payments area.
Scouce; Govenrnmet of India, Deparoaent of Econo-c Affairn;     IBRD Debtor Reporting System;   IDA e.tiatea.



INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT          AIEX VI
IMPORT SUMMARY
a/
(US$ Million)
1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73     1973/74
Estimate
~~ ~~~ b/
Foodgrains                     449        348       284       176       105        620
Maintenance Imports          1,612     1,328      1,512     1,883     1,871      2,335
of which:
Steel                      (115)     (109)     (196)     (319)     (282)      (300)
Nonferrous Metals          (119)      (99)     (159)     (138)     (132)      (160)
Fertilizers and Fertil-
izer Raw Materials      (264)     (157)     (133)     (150)     (181)      (250)
P.O.L.                     (178)     (183)     (181)     (261)     (265)      (625)
Cotton                    (120)      (110)     (132)     (152)     (118)       (70)
Chemical Elements
and Compounds            (70)       (62)      (71)      (86)      (81)      (110)
Components and Spares      (434)     (287)     (284)     (381)     (431)      (440)
Other Maintenance
Imports                  (312)     (321)     (356)     (396)     (381)      (380)
Complete Machinery and
Equipment                  265       252        260       268       229        240
Other                          196       220       255       245       385         350
TOTAL IMPORTS        2,522      2,148    2,311     2,572      2,590
a/  Foreign exchange rates used:  US$ 1 = Rs. 7.5; 7.444; 7.706 and 8.00 respectively
in 1968/69 - 1970/71; 1971/72; 1972/73 and 1973/74.
b/ Includes USSR food aid of 1 million tons at estimated value of US$180 per ton f.o.b.
Source: 1968/69 - 1972/73 Ministry of Commerce, Government of India,
1973/74 IDA estimates.



ANNEI VII
INDIA
NINTH INDUST'dLU IRPORIN CREDIT
INDEX OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
(Baset 1960 = 1OO)
Commodities                    Weight        1961        1965       1968        1969       1970       1971                   Januar  - June 9
ALL COMMODITIES
(Seasonally Adjusted)                 100.00        109.1       155.8      163.1       175.3      160.8      186.1      199.4       197.7       196.2
I.  hining and Quarrying                    9.12        105.4       131.7      144.2       147.4      149.0    j153.4       164.2        166.3      168.7
II.  Manufacturing                          84.91        109.2       154.0      158.7       170.6      174.8      178.9       191.4      1889        188.3
Food Manufacturing                    12.09       i08.6       122.2      119.1       141.3      157.5      157.6       162.6       152.0       151.6
Beverages and Tobacco                  2.22       107.0       147.6      164.9       164.7      170.1      182.5       174.1       169.9      165.2
Manufacture of Textiles               27.06       102.8       114.8      112.5       107.6      109.7      106.0       114.4       112.4      107.3
Manufacture of Footwear
and Wearing Apparel                 0.21         115.4      169.4      192.1       173.9      161.3      168.1       150.8       165.3       157.3
Manufacture of Wood and Cork except
Manufacture of Furniture            0.80         95.5       235.2      240.2       264.7      198.7      224.1       217.7      239.7       157.2
Manufacture of Furniture and
Fittings                            0-39
Paper and Paper Products              1.61        105.8       147.2      185.0       201.7      216.5      225.7      226.1       234.6       208.0
Leather and Fur Products              0.43        100.9       122.7      103.2        89.7       65.3       55.3       59.9        59.2        73.3
Rubber Products                       2.22        118.9       159.4      202.1       215.3      215.7     241.8       256.0       253.5       231.1
Chemicals and Chemical Products       7 26        113.4       152.6      207.2       224.8      236.5     252.7        293.8      302.6       302.0
Petroleum Refinery Products            1.45!'     106.0       152.7      259.7       282.6      297.3      316.9       317.2      316.8       307.2
Non-Metallic Mineral
(including cement)                   3.85        106.9       149.1      154.3       176.7      189.1      207.6       225.2      220.7       220.3
Basic Metal Industries                7.38        118.7       180.9      194.6       213.7      205.3      208.6       225.3      223.7       219.6
Metal Products                         2.51       112.4       205.6      180.2       223.9      219.0      234.4       242.7      229.1       252.9
Non-Electrical Machinery               3.38        121.2      320.9      335.0       383.2      369.5      373.2       402.7       393.9       445.3
Electrical Machinery                   3.05       110.0       208.2      277.9       322.9      362.7      404.8       435.0      433.5       432.2
Transport Equipment                    7.77        116.7      206.3      139.7       138.2      132.0      122.1       133.4       132.8       149.3
Mdiscellaneous Industries              1.23        102.7      132.9       88.5       102.7      120.0      114.0        86.5        79.4       40.8
III. Electriciyv Generated                    5V7        116.3       190.9      266.6       301.1      33,4.0    558.5       i   _1       395.6      369.1
a/ Provisional
J Productio,n figures are not reported.
Reported production statistics relate only to products whose total weight saounts to 1.34 in the index.
Source: Government of India, vario,o issu,es of the Economic Sllrvey.



ANNEX VIII
INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT
ANNUAL PRODUCTION OF INDUSTRIAL SECTORS ASSISTED BY IDA - 1965/66-1914/75
Unit       1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74    1974/75
est.   ,  proj.
Tractors                    Nos.OO0      6         9        11        15        17        20        18        20        35        41
Power Tillers               Nos.000    0.4       0.6       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.1       0.4         2         3
Fertilizers        l/
Nitrogenous 'N' - 1l/    1000 tons  238       309       402       563       731       832       949       1054      1120       1500
Phosphatic 'P205'        1000 tons  119       145       207       213       224       228       290       330       400       500
Pesticides:
Technical                1000 tons   12        14        19        19        24        24        24        26         20        32
Solid Formulations       1000 tons  n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       33        28        34        44        59        70         85
Liquid Formulations      1000 KL    n.a.      n.a.      n.a.        5         7         7        10         12        15        20
2/
Electrical Equipment:
Motors                   Mil, H.P.  2.0       2.4       2.4       2.2       2.8       3.2       2.8       3.2        3.0       3.1
Transformers             Mil.KVA    5.6       6.3       6.4       6.5       7.2      10.9      11.2      11.6      12.0       10.9
Switchgear               Mil. Rs.   170       210       200       203       223       364       441       555       638        700
Cables & wires:
Winding wires            1000 tons    9        11        12        13        14         17        20        21        22        22
PVC/VIR cables           m.c.m. 3/ 367        392       366       400       488       563       650        750       490       665
Power cables             m.m. 4/      9       n.a.       11        14        15        17        16         20        20        16
Steel stampings5/           1000 tons  n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       22        25        34        34        24         30        40
Aluminium Smelting (Primary 1000 tons   69        73       100       125       135       169        181       175       150       200
Cast Iron Spun Pip  Metal)   1000 tons n.a.      235       171        173       132       174       190       209       260       300
Commercial Vehicles:
Trucks and Buses         Nos.000   35.0      36.0      31.0      36.0      35.0      41.0      38.0      38.4       43.0      50.0
Jeeps                    Nos.O00   10.4      10.1       4.4       7.8       8.5       9.8      11.2       13.0      14.0      15.0
Three-Wheelers           Nos.000    1.5       1.5       4.7       4.7       4.1       4.7       7.3      10.7       12.0      18.0
Automobile Diesel EnginesNos.000    8.2       6.5       2.3       2.5       2.8       3.2        1.9       2.2       3.0       5.0
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tires                    Nos.Mil.   2.3       2.4       2.5       3.8       4.0       4.3       4.8       4.9       5.0        5.5
Synthetic Rubber         1000 tons  n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     26.0      29.0      27.0      34.0      28.3       29.0      30.0
Storage Batteries        Nos,Mil,   0.7       n.a.      n.a.      0.9       0.9       1.0       l.1       1.1        1.2       1.4
Auto Components & Parts2/Mil. Rs.   614       820       842       961      1177       1332      1449      1204      i300     -15n0--
Tools and parts:
Machine Tools            Mil. Rs.   255       265       216       209       256       355       503        549       630       750
Cutting, Small Tools     Mil. Rs.   300       300       310       296       379       395       463       508        520       600
and Abrasives
Ball & Roller Bearings   Nos.Mil.   8.3       9.2      10.6      12.1      14,6      17.7      20.1      21.7       23.0     25.0
Heavy Construction Equip-   Nos.       n.a.      n.a.      503       533       693       774       981      1581       2095     2540
ment 6/
Engines for Earth-
moving Equipment           Nos.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      687       888       852      1440       1600      1800
1/ Figures from Fertilizer Association of India.
2/ Government figures have been adjusted by IDA on the basis of additional information obtained from ctaer official sources and trade
associations.
3/ Million crore meters.
4/ Million meters.
5/ Figures exclude production in captive units.
6/ Comprises excavators, dumpers, crawler tractors, scrapers, graders, loaders and road rollers.
Source:   Ministry of Industrial Development
Note:     Production figures are based on information provided by medium and large scale units register,-d with the Directorate General
of Trade and Development, and do not include production in small scale sector.



INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT                    ANNEX II
PERFORMANCE OF IDA ASSISTED INDUSTRIES - 1968/69 and 1972/73
(Fiscal Years)
Annual                               Annual
Production           ccmpound      Exports (Nil US$)      compound
Unit          1968/69     1972/73   growth rate 1968/69       1972/73     growth rate
(%)                                    (.)
Tractors                             Nos.000       15.5        21.0       7.9           -
Power Tillers                        Nos.          240         400       13.6           -
Fertilizers:
Nitrogenous "N"                      1000 tons     563        1060       17.2           -            -           -
Phosphatic 'P,05'                    1000 tons     213         326       11.3           -            -           -
Pesticides:
Technical                            1000 tons       19         26        8.1           -             -          -
Solid Formulations                   1000 tons       33         59       15.6           _            _           _
Liquid Formulations                  1000 KL         5          12       24.5           -            -           -
Electrical l.auipment:
Motors                               Mil.H.P.       2.2         3.2        9.8        0.23
Transformers                         Mil.KVA        6.5        11.6       15.6        0.68 )       8.2           -
Switchgear                           Mil.US $      27          72        27.8         0.39 )
Cables and Wires                     Mil.US $      78         138         15.3          -          9.1           -
Steel Stampings                      1000 tons     22          22         2.2           -            -           -
Aluminium Smelting (primary steel)        1000 tons    125         175         8.8       11.29         Neglg.       minus
Commercial Vehicles:
Truclks and Buses                    Nos. 000      36.0        38.4        1.6        2.36         7.69        34.4
Jeeps                                Nos, 000       7.8        13.0      13.6         0.07
Three Vheelers                       Nos. 000       4.7        10.7       22.9        Neglg)       0.80        85.0
Automobile Difsel Engines            Eos. 000       2.5         2.2       -3.3        0.21         8.25       187.0
Automotive Pncillaries
T,res                                Nos.mil.       3.8         4.9       6.6          3.61        6.05        13.8
Synthetic rubber                     1000 tons     26          28.3       2.2         Negig.       0.21          -
Storage Batteries                    Nos. mil.      0.90        1.1       5.1          1.06        3.80        37.6
Auto Components & Parts              Mil. US $    128         156         5.1          4.23       21.75        50.0
Cast Iron Spun Pipes                     3000 tons    173         209                     Neglg.       o.5         plus
Tools and Parts
Mfachine Tools                       Mil. us$      27.9        71.2       26.3        2.51          2.76        2.5
Cutting, Small T'ools & Abrasives    Mil. US$      39.5        65.9       13.7        3.72         9.86        13.3
Bail and Boller Bearings             Mil. US$      12          31         26.8        0.29         0.28        -0.7
Earthmoving FEnuipment                   Mil. US$      22.6                     -         0.40            -          -
Nos.         325          662       19.5
1/
Engines for 7arthmoving Eruipment        Nos.         687         1440        20.4          -             -          -
2/
'11 Manufacturing                        Index of                                            2/           3/
InJustrial   166.1       199.2       4.7       113.3        195.3         14.6
Production
1/      Relates to 1969/70
7/      For Calender years 1968 and 1972
31      Exports of Engineering goods only.
Source:   Government of India;   Manufacturers' Associations;   IDA estimates.



ANNEX X
INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT
EIGHT PREVIOUS INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDITS: SOURCES OF PROCUEEMENT
(in US $'000)                                           1/
Credit  Credit  Credit   Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit             % of   Credit
Country       52-IN   78-Ig    92-IN   97-IN   138-IN  182-IN  327-IN    Total    Total   402-IN
Australia           627   1,691   4,679   3,060   3,742   2,935   4,686    21,420    3.2       557
Austria             612     817     638     310   5,255   1,329     554     9,515    1.5       -
Belgium             786  3,190   11,078     644   1,038     313     -     17,049     2.5        21
Brazil             -        59      -     3,180     315     -       -      3,554     0.5
Burma             n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     132      132     neg.
Canada             960   4,016    8,641   9,026   9,962   1,365   1,237   35,207     5.2       138
France           1,111   1,459    2,770   3,096   2,223     999   1,700   13,358     2.0       323
Germany         20,795   25,004  27,824   7,748  23,615  23,425  13,632 142,043     20o9     3,107
Ghana             n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      513     513     neg.      300
Greece            n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     b69      -        609    0.1
Iran              n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     522   1,005    1,527     0.2
Israel            n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     689      689     0.1      394
Italy              859      703   2,638   1,140   2,765   1,491     728   10.,324   1.5     1,223
Japan            5,546    3,933   5,971   3,100   9,592  11,473  14,886   54,501     8.0    2,168
Jordan             -        -     2,964   3,375   4,016     332    2,174  12,861    1.9       -
Liberia             _       -     1,395   1,080   1,795     426      -     4.696     0.7
Malaysia             54   1,479   5,651     563   3,141       91     209  11.188     1.6      -
Mexico               76     -     1,909   1,945     191       98   2,662   6;,881    1.0    2,533
Morocco             -       -     2,798     -     1,087   2,382      118   6,385     0 9      -
Netherlands        189      133   3,170     287     498     445      985   5,707     0.8      189
Norway                7     103     492     140   1,087     415      378   2,622     0.4       79
Peru              n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      193     193     neg.
Sweden           1,430    1,835   2,006   1,770   1,898     995    2,205  12,139     1.8      663
Switzerland        916      789     564   1,011   2,199      721   2,067   8a,267    1.2      832
United Kingdom  44,448   35,758  30,489   9,829  25,149   9,729   13,355 1680,757   24 8    5,552
United States   10,381   18,758  27,364   8,222  17,489   9,911    8,374 100;,499   i  9    2,267
Yugoslavia         n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     n.a.     -                 96
Zaire             n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   1,784       23   1,807     0.3    2,120
Zambia              65        5     373   1,164   7,176   1,147    2,338  12,268    1.8       140
Other Countries  1,138      268   6,586   4,310     767   1,983      157  15.,209    2.2
90,000 100,000 150,000   65,000 125,000  75,000  75,ooo 680,000   100.0    22,702
…===  ,= = =   = = =   = = = = = = = = = =     = = = = = =n=    =      =,== =
1/ Up to December 31, 1974
Source: IDA



ANNEX XI
INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY IN THE EIGHT PREVIOUS INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDITS
(US $ Million)
First   Second  Third   Fourth Fifth  Sixth Seventh        Eighth
Category             Credit  Credit Credit   Credit Credit Credit Credit Total Credit
(52-IN)0(777K  (92-IN) (97-IN)(138-IN)(182-IN)(327-INTI (T4-IN)
A. Components and Material
and Spare Parts for the
Manufacture of:
-  Commercial Vehicles        43.6   31.6    22.8     5.9    13.3     10.4     9.8 137.4   6.4
- Agricultural Tractors        -      -       1.8     0.4      2.3     2.6     3.4   10.5   3.8
- Autonotive Ancilliaries     10.6   16.3    23.9    10.9     23.9    26.6    17.0 129.2 11.0
- Machine Tools                4.3    4.1     2.2     1.1      2.5 ) 16.9     21.6 '     2
- Cutting and SmaIn Tools      4.8    5.0     4.7     2.2     3.5 )           21.6   729 30.0
_  Ba1l & Roller Bearings      -      -       2.5     1.1      2.4     -       -      6.0  -
- Electrical Equipment        11.2   12.1    16.3     3.6      8.0     3.4     4.7   59.3  6.6
- Fertilizers & Pesticides     -      -      24.0    22.1     25.7    15.0    18.0 104.8 25.0
- Cables and Wires             -     19.8    44.5    12.3     22.5     -       -     99.1  -
- Industrial and Mining
Machinery                 -      -       4.3      3.3    16.0     -       -     23.6   -
- Basic Nonferrous Metals      -      -       2.6      2.0     3.2     -       -      7.8  -
-  Castings & Forgings         -      -      small   Small     0.2     -       -      0.2  -
- Heavy Construction
Equipment                 2.9    3.5     -        -       -       -       -      6.4  1.3
- Aluminum Smelting            -      -       -        -       -       -       0.5    0.5  0.3
- Miscellaneous                -      -       -      small     0.7     -       -      0.7  -
B.  Balancing Equipment            2.5    1.8      0.4     0.2     0.7     -       -      5.6   _
C.  Spare Parts for Heavy
Construction Equipment
Dealers                        7.7    5.8     -        -       -       _       _     13.5!
D.  Heavy Construction
Equipment                      2.4    -        _       _       _       _       _      2.4  -
TOTAL           90.0  100.0   150.0    65.0   125.0     75.0    75.0  680.0 84.4
-===  =====   =====    ====   l=-===   ==5==    ====  ===== ==t:=
1/ Up to March 31, 1974
Source: IDA



INDIA                            ANNEX XII
NINTH INDUSTRIAL THPORTS CREDIT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS OF ELIGIBLE INDUSTRIES UNDER THE CREDIT     - 1969/70 - 1974/75
(Rs. million)
A c t u a I s                          Est.          Proi.
1969/70    1970/71      1971/72      1972/73     1973/74     1974/75
A.   Manufacturers
Tractors                            62         88          217          101         240         165
Power Tillers                     Negl.         4           13         Negl.          3           5
Fertilizers                        275         300         350          400         600        1720
Pesticides                          28         57          102          122         155         230
Electrical Equipment of which:     399        504          495          406        619          693
Cables and Wires                 (307)      (294)        (273)        (255)       (387)       (450)
Aluminium Smelting                  73          44          56           24          39          55
Commercial Vehicles                193        256          172          216         290         350
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tires and Tubes                  83         50           64           42          60          70
Synthetic Rubber                 10         12           23           17          10          10
Storage Batteries                37         42           42           38          48          58
Auto Components & Parts         240         186         176          102         250         285
Cast Iron Spun Pipes               n.a.       n.a.           5           10          12          15
Tools and Parts:
Machine Tools                    76          68          70           80          88         100
Cutting, Small Tools and
Abrasives                        75          83          85           90          95         120
Ball & Roller Bearings           41          37          48           41          58          63
2/
Heavy Construction Equipment        83          97         135          238         255         290
Total                             1675       1828         2053         1927        2822        4229
Total in US$ (mil.)              223.3       243.7       275.8        250.1       352.8       528.6
B.   Dealers of Spare Parts for
Heavy Construction Equipment 3/     33          10          17           17         107         168
Grand Total                       1708        1838        2070         1944        2929        4397
Grand Total in US$ (mil.)        227.7       245.1       278.1        252.3       366.1       549.6
I/  Import requirements refer to foreign exchange allocations approved or expected to be approved by th
Ministry of Industrial Development, during each annual licensing period.
2/  Includes heavy earthmoving equipment, engines for earthmoving equipment and road rollers.
3/  The figures for 1971/72 onwards also include imports of actual users (i.e. project authorities);
for earlier years information on actual user imports is not available.
Source: Ministry of Industrial Development.



ANNEX XIII
Page 1
INDIA
NINTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT
Survey of Commercial Vehicle and Tractor Industries
Introduction
1.        A survey of these industries was carried out in conjunction with
the appraisal of the Eighth Credit. The results of the survey were circulated
to the Executive Directors (R66-IN of May 16, 1973) in two reports entitled
"India - Survey of the Commercial Vehicle Industry" and "India - Survey of
the Tractor Manufacturing Industry."
2.        These survey reports were based upon the work carried out by a team
of technical consultants which examined each industry on a firm by firm basis.
The survey reports made recommendations on general policy towards these indus-
tries as well as proposing a plant improvement program for each manufacturer.
3.        A senior officer of the Ministry of Heavy   Industries  was
given responsibility for reviewing the progress of the plant improvement
program. Letters were sent to all manufacturers in these industries setting
out the proposals in the survey reports together with relevant extracts from
the consultants' technical report. During the course of the mission to
appraise this credit, progress amongst commercial vehicle manufacturers was
reviewed through plant visits. Progress amongst tractor manufacturers was
reviewed with the Ministry of Heavy Industries; plant visits to these manu-
facturers will be made in the course of appraising future credits.
Commercial Vehicle Manufacturers
4.        There are seven manufacturers of commercial vehicles and one
manufacturer of diesel engines. Four of the former produce heavy vehicles
(5 tons and above) while the remaining three produce, respectively, light
vehicles, jeeps, and three wheelers. As a result of Government policy to
restrict imports and encourage indigenous production, output increased
from virtually nil at the time of independence to about 6h,000 units by
1972/73. In the same period, the import content has declined to around
8-10 percent; a development which has been made possible through a strong
automotive ancillaries industry. Exports have increased from virtually
nothing in the mid-1960s to about US$20 million in 1972/73.
5.        The survey report found that the performance of the industry
varied between manufacturers. Two of the major manufacturers were found
to be operating efficiently by international standards while the remaining
manufacturers were faced with problems of varying degrees. The principal
deficiencies were found in the areas of product planning and engineering,
manufacturing engineering, financial control, and organization.



ANNEX EIII
Page 2
Government Action
6.        The survey report recommended that:-
(i)   GOI should permit some liberalization of imports;
(ii)   GOI should support the establishment of overseas
trade development centers to foster exports of
components;
(iii)   GOI should encourage foreign collaboration andl
technical assistance agreements.
7.        The Government has taken action on some import liberalization.
As noted earlier in this report, special arrangements were made for the
import of components and, in one case, of whole engine units. The Government
is still reviewing proposals for the setting up of trade centers.
Finally, the Government has confirmed that the rules governing foreign
collaboration agreements is being interpreted more liberally than in the
past.
Plant Improvement Programs
8.        The appraisal mission for this credit visited four of the! manu-
facturers and reviewed progress of all the manufacturers with the M[inistry
of Heavy Industries. Of the heavy commercial vehicle manufacturers, the
best one is already efficient and it did not need to make any major changes.
It has however further improved its materials management and financial control
systems. The second manufacturer indicated that it agreed with the! recommend-
ations in principle and was considering introducing the necessary changes in
its ongoing expansion program. The third manufacturer, as recommended in the
consultants' report, is considering alternative sources for diesel engines
supply, and GOI has given it a license to import engines which has greatly
eased the problems facing this manufacturer. The original problem stemmed
in part from the difficulties faced by the one diesel engine manufacturer.
This manufacturer has still not been able to overcome the extensive
management and technical problems it faces. Finally, the fourth manufacturer
has started to improve its foundry operations and quality control systems,
but still needs considerably more improvement in all its manufacturing and
managerial functions.
9.        Of the light commercial vehicle manufacturers, the best is an
extremely well-managed firm and is going forward with an expansion program
that will more than double its present capacity. The second manufacturer
has undertaken an outstanding program to improve plant operations, strengthen
middle management and expand capacity; it could well become internationally
competitive in one or two years. These two firms should provide an excellent
base for the export of light commercial vehicles and jeeps. Production
figures for the third manufacturer for 1973/74 indicate a 30 percent increase.



ANNEX XIII
Page 3
Tractor Manufacturers
10.       There are five manufacturers.  Assembly and manufacture started
in 1963/64 and reached 20,h00 in 1972/73. The import content is now about
12-20 percent and production in certain cases is internationally competitive.
11.       The survey report indicated that performance varied between manu-
facturers quite sharply with two firms operating efficiently while the
remaining three were faced with quite serious difficulties. The last
mentioned needed to update product design and to improve quality and
financial controls and marketing.
Government Action
12.       The survey report recommended that:-
(i)   GOI should review licensing policy under which
a large number of new firms had been granted
licenses to manufacture tractors;
(ii)   GOI should review price controls which appeared
to have reduced profit margins;
(iii)   GOI should encourage collaboration with foreign
manufacturers in an effort to improve engineering
design.
13.       GOI has stopped granting new licenses until the intentions of
those already licensed are known. Manufacturers have been permitted to
raise prices by 10 percent to cover increases in production costs which
is expected to provide a stimulus to increased production while at the
same time not pushing domestic prices out of line with CIF prices of
imports. GOI has also permitted collaboration agreements.
Plant Improvement Programs
14.       The Ministry of Heavy Industries reported some progress on
implementing these programs. The two efficient manufacturers have continued
to develop especially with active marketing programs. One of the two is
still constrained by difficulties in obtaining engines from its engine
manufacturer which is also its majority shareholder.
15.       Of the remaining manufacturers, two have introduced new model
lines which are being actively marketed. The third manufacturer only
produced at 20 percent as a result of a long labor strike.






lORD 3873
-__                                               r-.   ' FG , ' >N  0  >e rinAq 
JAMMU  KASHMIR  .JL tiD.
s   > PUNJAB  0   +.               (T  I B E T)
'~~~~ ->9>                                                  EGAAAP
N~~~~~~~
LH- 0t  (                                                 3rr
JAMP=1  &  ASH R  *                                         0.TTRGPADESH 
1.              ]L        GORMA        DHY        A  P  R A DESHlAMSEP WST- -; 
R A J A  T H A NA\T                                     . RC
r0iAIACL  4 HIRIALA
,,            A     1-  ° R~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I   H A R
PRAO2ESH  *'=                          90=~~~~URPU  B N LA ES  f44 
-20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID /        22-
A~~~~~~~~~~~~A
T R O M H Y _515--- lB                 ET)v
00' ~ ~ BAA 4.   MAHARASHTRA.~                                                   -. <     30}, J
GU J                        L D          A L           1.
v  /~~~~~~~~~~~L
| ANDRA PRADESH   HIRAK
> ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~  RFBLG  I0       i 5\ A  
D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E           00A0r BHADRAVAT  g\     A Sf 85rlI   Ae  M
>   ZTSORE  l_o                    *  S=eel Plor s.v*ctts 
-20' ~ ~ ~ u         2AG0RE'  7     n  lDA5,|| 
BOMBAY  MAHAAASH                             0(~~~~~~~~~~~*MEIAAY
R A E A                    L     E 
FAC  UD  t  SlAAMLNDHADU ADS
ELGAUMHIIN DI A
f [  ~~~~       ~OCTON OF MAJO INDSTIA      CENTERS
HA7RAVATCC, 1
BA40ALORE  MADRAS         N OF  AiRNDTRA       CEES
Stole or Jn  -n Te,rrt.ry  Bodte
Inte-s o,,a Bon,,,I-es
57                        0    120  200  300  400   000
0     3200          00 900
ILlOMUEPES
70=                       eo~~~~~~~~~ ~EY LON                 91



