Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17545
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
March 30, 1998
Energy Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1998)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
One Rupee = US$0.0256
One US Dollar = 39.05 Rs.
FISCAL YEAR
(January 1 December 31)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter    =  1,308 cubic yards
1 metric tonne (t) = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 metric tonne (t) = 2204.6 pounds
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCCL   -         Bharat Coking Coal Limited
CIL      -       Coal India Limited
FY      -        Fiscal Year
GOI    -         Government of India
ICB     -        International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -        International Development Association
MOC    -         Ministry of Coal
MOP   -          Memorandum of the President
NGO    -         Non-Government Organization
Vice President:           Mieko Nishimizu
Countrv Director:         Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:           Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Manager:    -        Christopher Wardell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                                                            (i)
Introduction .............................................................(i)
Project Objectives .............................................................(i)
Implementation Experience and Results .............................................................(ii)
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ............           ...........  (iii)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                                   I
A.  Project Objectives .I
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives                               .2
C.        Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                           2
Factors not Subject to Borrower's Control                 .2
Factors Subject to Borrower's Control                   .2
D.  Project Sustainability                                    .3
E. IDA Performance                                          .3
F.  Borrower Performance                                       .3
G.  Performance of Consultants                                    .4
H.  Assessment of Outcome                                       .4
1.  Future Operations                                        .5
J.  Key Lessons Learned                                       .5
PART 11 - STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                                                                6
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..................................... .........................   7
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits .............................................................. 8
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...................          .......................................... 8
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements .........................       ..................................... 8
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................... ................. 9
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project . ............................................................. 9
Table 7A: Project Costs ..............................................................               0
Table 7B: Project Financing ...................          ..........................................  10
Table 8:  Status of Credit Covenants ..........................................1...................  1
Table 9:  IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................................  12
Table 10: IDA: Missions .............................................................              12
Annex 1: ICR Mission Aide-Memoire .................................        ...................................  13
Annex 2: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ....................................................................   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jharia Mine Fire
Control Technical Assistance Project in India, for which Credit 2450-IN in the amount of SDR 8.6
million (US$12.0 million equivalent) was approved on December 17, 1992, and made effective on
August 18, 1993.
The Credit was closed on September 30, 1998, as compared to the original closing
date of June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on February 24, 1998. The Credit balance of
approximately SDR 3.0 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Christopher Wardell, Industry and Mining Division,
Energy, Mining and Telecommunications Department, Vice Presidency for Finance and Private
Sector Development. It was reviewed by Mr. Alastair McKechnie, Energy Sector Manager, South
Asia Region. The Borrower provided comments that are included as an Annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was undertaken during an ICR mission in January 1998. It is
based on material in the project file. The project implementing agency contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by frankly exchanging views on project preparation, procurement, project
implementation, performance of consultants and next steps, by commenting on the draft ICR, and
by preparing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
Executive Summary
Introduction
(a)   India's resources of prime coking coal are concentrated in the Jharia coalfield in Bihar. The
mining of these reserves is threatened by one of the world's largest concentrations of mine fires
associated with both underground and open-pit coal operations. The fires are caused by
spontaneous heating of coal seams and carbonaceous material in overlying shales. Heating of coal
left in pillars and in exposed open-pit highwalls (many in abandoned mines that litter shallow areas
in Jharia and represent the result of private sector slaughter mining prior to nationalization) has been
rampant since the early 20th century. Efforts to contain the fires have been only partially successful
and consequently the areas above the coal mining areas have in many areas collapsed as fires
progress laterally and vertically; resultant fissures through to the surface providing additional access
of air, accelerating the speed at which the fires spread.
(b)   The government and Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), the project implementing
agency, were not only concerned about the loss of valuable reserves of coking coal and the ensuing
need to increase coking coal imports but also about the damage that the fires inflict on the
environment. The fires contribute to air pollution in the Jharia area. Ground collapse above the fire
areas results in serious surface subsidence and the need for extensive reclamation. In addition, the
fires and related collapse phenomenon put the inhabitants of certain areas of the Jharia coalfield as
well as important infrastructure (ores, rail lines, businesses and housing etc.) in an unsafe
disposition and at serious risk of disaster. About 1 million people inhabit the fire-affected Jharia
coalfield area, and if the fires cannot be contained, over 20,000 families would need resettlement
and rehabilitation.
Project Objectives
(c)   The primary objective of the project was to set the stage for investments aimed at
extinguishing or containing the mine fires. Recognizing the considerable environmental damage
resulting from the mine fires and related subsidence, a parallel objective was to prepare an
environmental management program to identify measures to mitigate adverse environmental and
social impacts and thus to assist BCCL and government in their preparation for resettlement of a
growing number of people.



(ii)
(d)   As a technical assistance project, credit covenants were general and not designed to monitor
organizational, technical or financial aspects of the Borrower's mining operations. Macro, sector
and institutional project objectives were not specifically designed although it was recognized that
with a technical assistance project focusing on major environmental and social issues and
mitigation, such developments would occur. The project design was neither complex nor
particularly demanding for the Borrower.
Implementation Experience and Results
(e)   Notwithstanding delays in establishing credit effectiveness, in mobilizing technical
assistance consultants, in contracting and scheduling drilling services, and the fact that time did not
permit consultants to develop detailed cost/benefit analyses, the project was successful since it
achieved its major objectives (Section B). The extent of mine fires and costs associated with their
extinguishment/containment have been defined, and related environmental and social mitigation
measures have been developed. The project has facilitated strong government focus on the
enormity of the challenge to address the environmental and resettlement issues at Jharia.
(f)    The project has been completed at a cost of US$10.99 million equivalent, compared to the
forecast (MOP) project cost of US$14.30 million equivalent (Table 7A). The cost reduction is due
primarily to lower than anticipated equipment, survey and support services contracts and the lack of
necessity to utilize project contingencies. Project completion occurred in June 1996 and was
followed by project review workshops in North America and in India in May 1997. This compares
to the originally scheduled project completion in December 1994.
(g)    A number of factors contributed to delayed project implementation (Section C). Credit
signing and effectiveness were delayed. Procurement of international consultants was delayed
because of issues relating to consultant contract liability provisions. Further delay occurred due to
Borrower misunderstandings regarding contracting of drilling services under IDA procurement
guidelines. Drill programs took longer than anticipated due to additional drilling that had to be
performed to complete assessment of mine fires, which extended the drill program schedule.
(h)   In general, the performance of IDA, the Borrower, and project consultants was satisfactory
throughout project implementation (Sections E, F and G). The Borrower handled procurement
efficiently considering its lack of familiarity with IDA guidelines, supervised and cooperated
effectively with international consultants and field investigation contractors, and undertook effective
public consultation procedures with state government, union leaders, tribals and NGO officials.
IDA staff assisted in developing a meaningful project concept and scope and in helping the
Borrower focus on project objectives and in escalating government attention to the serious
environmental and social issues associated with the Jharia coalfield area. The main weaknesses of
IDA were in not developing a realistic project implementation schedule and in repeatedly changing
staff assigned to the project. The main weakness of the Borrower was in not completing original
terms of reference by



(iii)
addressing costs/benefits of mine fire control, although it is recognized that IDA staff did not
provide appropriate guidance in this respect.
(i)    On the basis that the major project objectives have been met, the project outcome is rated as
satisfactory. BCCL/government are preparing to develop detailed Action Plans for implementation
of fire control, environmental and social mitigation programs identified under project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
(j)    With the clear definition of the extent of mine fires at Jharia and preliminary engineering
estimates of costs associated with their extinguishment/containment, together with a clear definition
of the nature and costs of related environmental and social issues, BCCL is now in a position to
prepare detailed Action Plans for implementation of a program of fire control, environmental and
social mitigation. Detailed terms-of-reference for such Action Plans are under preparation for
review with government. Following project completion, the government allocated funds to begin to
address the serious environmental and social issues, and smaller-scale fire control/subsidence
projects are under implementation. A pilot resettlement scheme is being implemented by BCCL
under a Ministry of Coal (MOC) special emergency Fund. A MOC Higher Level Committee has
prepared a report to address the serious issues at Jharia which is under review by the government.
Government is now in a position to design a major program of investments to address
environmental and social issues identified under the project (Sections H and I).
(k)   The key lessons to be learned are that, for technical assistance projects, a realistic project
implementation schedule is important; procurement needs to be initiated prior to loan effectiveness;
and it is important that a project implementing agency has developed a clear understanding of IDA
procurement guidelines. The importance of inter-phasing Borrower base project data, field
investigations and programs, with technical assistance specialist inputs cannot be over-stressed
(Section J).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Project Objectives
1.    Based on the very serious and unprecedented world-wide nature of mine fires in the Jharia
coalfield in Bihar and the considerable impact of these fires on both ongoing mining activities,
surface infrastructure, and on the people inhabiting the area, the key project objective was to set the
stage for investments aimed at extinguishing or containing the mine fires. In view of the
considerable adverse effects of the fires on the environment, a parallel objective was to prepare a
program to identify measures to mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts, and thus to
provide assistance to Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and to the State Government in their
preparation for resettlement of a growing number of people, including tribals, living in the fire-
endangered areas of the Jharia coalfield.
2.    As such, the project had two key components: (i) development of a fire-fighting program
and (ii) development of an environmental management program. The fire-fighting program was
designed to develop a recommended approach to extinguish or control fires, estimate its cost, and
quantify expected financial/economic benefits (in terms of valuable coking coal salvaged, damage
to the environment and infrastructure facilities as well as rehabilitation of affected people). The
program would concentrate first on fires likely to cause the largest potential loss of valuable coking
coal to BCCL and to pose the greatest threat to people, the environment and to infrastructure
facilities. Following identification of costs and benefits of individual fire
extinguishment/containment, BCCL would prepare fire control project reports to facilitate
mobilization of investments. A least-cost environmental management program would assess the
massive damage (pollution, land instability, social impact) resulting fTom the mine fires, assess the
magnitude of the environmental and social impact of mining and related mine fires, and
systematically evaluate options to mitigate the impacts, particularly large-scale resettlement of
affected people.



2
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    Due to focused project supervision by IDA and project commitment by the government and
Borrower, project objectives have been essentially achieved. A clear definition of the extent and
growth of individual fires has been successfully completed and specific costs, based on preliminary
engineering estimates, have been delineated to extinguish or contain the many fires. The enormity
of related environ-mental and resettlement measures required has been quantified. These measures,
together with those required to extinguish or control mine fires are estimated to involve an
expenditure of the order of US$1 billion. Access to valuable coking coal reserves totaling 1.5
billion tonnes (value in the domestic market exceeding US$2 billion in 1998 terms) is inhibited by
the extent of the mine fires. Detailed economic (cost/benefit) analysis of fire control and
environmental/social mitigation measures could not be undertaken within the time frame of the
project. Project implementation has generated strong focus on the critical nature of environmental
and social issues at Jharia by central, state and district government officials. Recognizing the
complex nature and extent of these serious issues, a Higher Level Committee was formed in late-
1996, under the Secretary, Ministry of Coal. Project implementation culminated in a series of
formal project review workshops in USA (Pittsburgh) and India (Delhi, Calcutta, and Dhanbad) and
a Final Review Workshop Report enabled BCCL, with assistance from project consultants, to focus
senior government officials' attention on the serious and complex natuie of the fires and on steps,
including necessary investments, to address the mine fires and related environrmental and social
mitigation measures. On this basis, the project outcome is satisfactory (para. 11).
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
4.    Based on the clear definition of the nature, extent and costs of addressing Jharia mine fires
and related environmental (land subsidence and reclamation) and social (resettlement and
rehabilitation) concerns, the implementation record of the project is satisfactory. Detailed
cost/benefit analysis could not be undertaken within the time frame of the project, even following
three loan extensions, due primarily to delays in loan effectiveness, procurement of technical
assistance, and the complex nature of the fire investigation programs undertaken.
5.    Factors not Subject to the Borrower's Control.. During the early phase of project
implementation, serious procurement (goods and services) delays occurred due to
misunderstandings regarding IDA procurement guidelines, consultant contract liability provisions,
and drill program contracting. Additional (40 per cent) drilling was required to precisely determine
the extent of mine fires which extended the field investigations and disrupted scheduled consultant
reviews.
6.    Factors Subject to Borrower Control. Delays occurred in (i) declaring the credit effective,
(ii) appointing a panel of international advisory experts (in accordance with the Project Agreement)
and (iii) appointing a government Advisory Panel (in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement). Toward the conclusion of the project implementation, consultants were not pressed to
deliberate cost/benefit analyses (as required under the contract terms-of-reference) to prepare an
outline justification for Action Plans/investment for the implementation of fire control and
environmental/social mitigation programs.



3
D.    Project Sustainability
7.    The question of project sustainability is not specifically relevant to a technical assistance
project. However, with the clear definition of the extent and complexity and appropriate treatment
options for the Jharia mine fires and of related environmental and social mitigation measures,
necessary groundwork has been prepared to facilitate the development of Action Plans for
implementation of fire control and environmental/social mitigation measures and the economic
cost/benefits of such programs. The government and BCCL are now developing terms-of-reference
for local/international experts to prepare specific Action Plans for implementation of fire control
and environmental mitigation programs.
E.    IDA Performance
8.    The performance of IDA can be considered generally satisfactory throughout project
preparation, appraisal, and project implementation. The main weaknesses of IDA were (i) not
preparing a realistic project implementation schedule (three credit extensions were required to
accommodate the original work program) and (ii) repeatedly changing task management/project
staff, which proved particularly critical towards project completion. IDA supervision after
September 1996 could have helped the Borrower understand the need for and benefits of outlining
cost/benefit analyses of mine fire control and environmental/social mitigation programs. Otherwise,
IDA provided strong guidance and support to BCCL and facilitated escalation of the serious nature
of the Jharia mine fires (and particularly related environmental and social issues) to senior
government officials. No mid-term review was undertaken. IDA participated in the project review
workshops in North America but unfortunately did not participate in important review workshops
held subsequently in India and chaired by senior government officials. It can be noted also that
project files are deficient in terms of being able to accurately track the history and supervision of
project implementation and are particularly deficient in terms of development of any appreciation of
the project outcome.
F.    Borrower Performance
9.    BCCL participated actively throughout all stages of project preparation, appraisal and
supervision and cooperated successfully with project consultants. The Borrower handled credit
effectiveness (signing of a subsidiary credit agreement and provision of a legal opinion) in a manner
that incurred initial project delays. Procurement of equipment and services to support the major
technical assistance programs was handled in a generally satisfactory manner but delays occurred
due to misunderstandings regarding IDA procurement guidelines and procurement processing. In
its review of social and, to a degree, environmental issues, BCCL captured effectively public
consultation/participation in the evaluation of options for mitigation programs. State government
officials, union leaders, tribals and past and future resettlement peoples were consulted regularly
and particularly during Final Workshop review meetings held in Calcutta and Dhanbad. The
Borrower's main weakness was toward project completion, failing to recognize the importance of
cost/benefit analyses to provide justification to a program to implement fire control and related
environmental/social mitigation measures. However, following project completion, BCCL has



4
continued to work closely with central and state government officials to develop projects for mine
fire control and subsidence abatement, and to develop and arrange funding for resettlement of
affected people. To facilitate implementation of fire control and subsidence/resettlement schemes,
BCCL appointed a General Manager - Coalfield Reconstruction to be responsible for
implementation of ongoing and future fire control, environmental and social mitigation projects.
G.   Performance of Consultants
10.   Project consultants provided a very clear definition of the extent of mine fires and
preliminary costs for their extinguishment/containment, and for addressing environmental and social
issues resulting from ongoing mining operations and related mine fires. Fires affecting ongoing
mining operations, infrastructure and people were identified. Necessary related subsidence,
reclamation and resettlement mitigation measures were clearly identified and specific
recommendations made for improved air and water quality control. Important recommendations
were formulated also for the provision of potable water supply to local inhabitants and for improved
dust control due to excessive traffic in the coalfield region. Specific proposals were developed and
documented to guide BCCL in its future monitoring and control of environmental and social
(resettlement and rehabilitation) mitigation management programs. Fire-affected areas have been
clearly defined in terms of criticality and Final Reports are well focused and detailed. Time did not
permit the development of detailed cost/benefit analysis to justify programs to address the mine
fires and related issues, but it is worthy to reiterate that neither the Borrower nor IDA provided
appropriate guidance in this respect during the latter stages of project implementation.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
11.   The outcome of the project can be considered satisfactory. Mine fire control measures and
costs were delineated and environmental and social mitigation measures defined. The Borrower and
central/state governments are now in a strong position to understand and appreciate fully the
enormity of the challenge to address the mine fires at Jharia and the related environmental/social
issues, and the mitigation measures required to address them. Following project completion, BCCL
has continued an active dialogue with central/state governments and NGOs regarding an
implementation program for mine fire control and environmental/social mitigation programs.
Government has committed funds (US$9 million equivalent) to initiate a pilot resettlement program
(including illegal settlers on BCCL land holdings) and funding (US$4-5 million equivalent) for
ongoing, smaller-scale fire-fighting and subsidence control projects in immediately critical areas.
BCCL and government recognize that these preliminary initiatives need to be followed by a major
program for fire control and environmental and social mitigation measures, and that a detailed
Action Plan in this respect needs to be developed to provide technical, environmental, social and
economic justification for the program. At the time of finalization of this ICR, BCCL and
government are scheduling discussions regarding terms-of-reference for BCCL to develop these
important Action Plans with further assistance and guidance from international experts and for
government to consider options for funding this major program.



5
I.    Future Operation
12.   Following the publication of the report of the Committee established by the government to
investigate the issues relating to the Raniganj and Jharia coalfield operations, BCCL plans to
develop a clear Action Plan to address Jharia mine fires and the related social and environmental
mitigation needs, including identification of an investment program for its implementation. IDA
will continue dialogue with CIL/BCCL and government regarding implementation of this important
fire control and environmental/social mitigation program at Jharia.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
13.   A key lesson to be learned is the importance of developing a realistic project implementation
time schedule. Procurement of services and goods prior to loan effectiveness can obviate serious
delays at the outset of the project and obviate credit extensions necessitated to simply complete
original scopes of work. In addition, a clear understanding by Borrowers of local and ICB
procurement procedures is critical, prior to loan effectiveness. A related lesson to be learned for
technical assistance projects is that the inter-phasing of Borrower data collection, consultant
services, and equipment procurement/field investigations is critical to avoid interruptions in
technical assistance inputs and scheduling.
14.   The project has also highlighted the importance, in coal-producing countries world-wide, of
the development of clear and effective policy, regulatory and institutional arrangements for
environmental/social management, and of the need for and benefit of fiscal policies making
provision for funds for environmental and social mitigation programs, necessitated by the impact of
historical, uncontrolled mining activities.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
Part II - Statistical Annexes



7
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.     Achievements of Objectives  Substantial    Partial  Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                 Ol                      El O   
Sector policies                O E                     0            O
Financial objectives           C1          E           O E
Institutional development      Iz3         0           0            0
Physical objectives            1I3         0           O            O
Poverty reduction              El          E           0l           E3!
Gender issues                  E1          E           0            IX]
Other social objectives        E           O           E            E
Environmental objectives      Ix!          0           E            O
Public sector management       O          E3           0            E
Private sector management      [1          0           0            3
Highly
B.  Project sustainability       Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
E
Highly
C.  Bank performance            Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                  E             E3           El
Preparation Assistance          E             I1           E
Appraisal                       E             I            E
Supervision                     E             E3          E
Highly
D.  Borrower performance        Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                     E             13         0
Implementation                  E             E3          E
Covenant compliance             E             E3          0
Operation (if applicable)       O             0 EE
Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome       Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
0             IX!         0



8
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan\Title                           Purpose                      Year of         Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Ln. 2393-IN Dudhichua Coal  Open-pit Coal Mine Development                  1984      Completed
Ln. 2498-IN Jharia Coking   Open-pit/Underground Coal Mine Development      1985      Completed
Coal
Ln. 2796-IN Coal Quality    Open-pit Mine Development/Coking Coal          1987       Completed
Improvement                 Imports
Following Operations
Cr. 2862-IN Coal Sector     Sustainable environmental and social coal mine  1996      Ongoing
Environmental and Social    development
Mitigation
Ln. 4226/Cr. 2986-IN Coal    Open-pit mine development/coal sector reforms  1997      Board 9/97
Sector Rehabilitation                                                                 Loan Signing
3/98
Anticipated
effectiveness
_  6/98
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project cycle             Date planned                  Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification                              1/92                            1/92
Appraisal                                   6/92                            6/92
Negotiations                                11/92                           11/92
Board presentation                          12/92                           12/92
Signing                                     1/93                            4/93
Effectiveness                               2/93                            8/93
Midterm review
Project completion                          12/94                           6/97
Loan closing                                6/95                            9/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US $ million)
FY93        FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97       FY98
Appraisal                        2.8         9.4        12.0         -
Actual                           0           0.5         1.8        3.6        7.4       8.2
Actual as % of estimate          0           5.3        15.0       30.0       61.6      68.3
Date of final disbursement    2/24/98                                                _



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Specific project implementation indicators were not outlined in the MOP and only simple timetable indicators developed during project implementation.
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                     Purpose               Status                       Impact of Study
Mine Fire Control          Identify areas of mine fires,
evaluate options to
extinguish/contain fires,
prepare cost                Completed   ) Provided groundwork for development of) Action
estimates/priorities                      Plans/investment to mitigate
Environmental                                                        ) coalfield environmental and social
Management Plan            Identify subsidence,                      ) impacts
reclamation and resettlement  Completed   )
measures in fire control
areas



10
Table 7A: Project Costs
MOP ESTIMATE                ACTUAL COST
Local I Foreign I Total   Local I Foreign ] Total
US$ Million                US$ Million
Consulting Services                0.10     4.50      4.60     1.64     4.89      6.53
Surveying Services                 4.10      1.60     5.70     2.81     0.02      2.83
Equipment                          0.40      1.10     1.50     0.62     0.23      0.85
Other Support Services             0.50       -       0.50     0.78       -       0.78
Base Cost                          5.10     7.20      12.30    5.85      5.14     10.99
Physical Contingencies             0.50     0.70      1.20      -         -         -
Price Contingencies                0.50     0.30      0.80      -         -         -
Total Project Cost                 6.10     8.20      14.30    5.85      5.14     10.99
Table 7B: Project Financing
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                ACTUAL COST
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign
US$ Million                 US$ Million
GOI                               2.30       -        2.30     2.33            | 2.33
IDA                               3.80      8.20     12.00     3.52     5.14   8.66
Total Financing                   6.10      8.20     14.30     5.85     5.14      10.99
Total project cost at Table 7A (and therefore, total financing at table 7B) is derived from Borrower records. The actual
IDA disbursement totals US$ 8.2 million equivalent (Table 4); the difference is due to different exchange rates being
used by IDA and the Borrower.



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement        Section     Covenant Type   Present Status     Original         Revised             Description of covenant                 Comments
Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            date
Development        3.03             9              CD             6/15/93            -        Borrower to appoint advisory panel
Credit
Agreement
Project         2.05(a)           9               C               -               -         BCCL to exchange views with IDA
Agreement
3.01             5               C                               -         BCCL to carry out operations/affairs in
accordance with sound practices
3.03             5               C               -               -         BCCL to take out/maintain insurance
3.04             5              CD           (i) 4/15/93         -         BCCL to (i) establish fire fighting cell
(ii) 9/1/93        -         and (ii) appoint a panel of experts
4.01             2               C               -               -         BCCL to maintain financial records and
accounts
Covenant types:                                                                                     Present Status:
1 = Accounts/audits                           9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                 C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial                                  10 = Project implementation not covered              CD = complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds           by categories 1-9                               CP = complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                        11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary            NC = not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project               or other resources allocation
or executing agency                        12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                         regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement                   13 = Other
8 = Indigenous people



12
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Weeks)
Stage of Project         Staff Weeks
Cycle
Through Appraisal             34.5
Appraisal - Board             29.2
Board -                        7.2
Effectiveness
Supervision                   41.0
Completion                     8.6
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
[Perforrnance Rating
Number                    Specialized          Imple-       Devel-      Types of
Month/      of      Days            Staff Skills       mentation    opment       Problems
Stage of Project Cycle   Year    Persons      in          Represented 3/          Status    Objectives      2/
Field
Through appraisal           1/92       7         7        E (2), OA, M (2), C (2)     -
6/92       6        8           E, OA, C (2), RS          -
Appraisal through Board    12/92       1        14                M               _        _
Approval                                                                         _
Board Approval through      4/93       2         3              OA, M                 -Pr, LE
Effectiveness
Supervision                 2/94       2         3              OA, M                 2           l            Pr
6/94       2         5               E, M                 S           S
1/95       1        4                OA                   S           S           Pr
6/95       2        4               OA, M                 S           S         Pr, PM
6/96       2        4                E, M                 S           S           PM
9/96       2        2                E, M                 S           S           PM
Completion Report           1/98       1         8                M                   -
1/ E - Economist, OA - Operations Assistant, M - Mining Engineer, C - Consultant, RS -
Resident Staff
2/ Pr - Procurement, LE - Loan Effectiveness, PM - Project Management



13
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Cr. 2450-IN)
IDA IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION (ICR) MISSION
JANUARY 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    An IDA mission (Chris Wardell, Principal Mining Engineer/Task Manager)
visited India from January 14-22, 1998 to undertake the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR).
2.    All aspects of project implementation and related issues were discussed frankly
and openly with Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL - the project implementing agency),
Coal India Limited (BCCL holding company), and the government (the Borrower) -
Ministry of Coal (MOC) and Department of Economic Affairs (DEA).
3.    BCCL provided a draft of its contribution to the ICR including comments on the
project implementation record, its performance as implementing agency and on the
performance of IDA and project consultants. The mission provided advice and support to
BCCL on the contributions provided. These inputs were essentially in the form of
suggested clarifications and focus, and on the need for BCCL to expand its draft ICR to
outline details of work initiated since project completion. There was no major divergence
of view between BCCL and the mission regarding the project implementation record and
related issues, experience, and appropriate next steps.
4.    The main objectives of the project have been completed satisfactorily. Project
consultants have assisted BCCL to clearly define the nature and extent of mine fires in
the Jharia coalfield and costs of their extinguishment/containment. Related
environmental and social mitigation measures and costs have been clearly identified. Fire
treatment areas and related environmental/social mitigation measures have been defined
into critical, sub-critical and other, less important, components. Critical areas are defined
as those that could cause damage to surface infrastructure Gores, rail lines etc.) and to
inhabitants, and/or areas where there is an imminent risk of fires jeopardizing BCCL
mining operations.
5.    Agreement was reached that project implementation delays related primarily to (i)
delays in credit signing and effectiveness, (ii) development of a somewhat impractical
project implementation schedule, (ii) lack of BCCL familiarization with IDA
procurement guidelines and procedures for the provision of consultant services and local



14
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
field (drill) investigation services, (iii) inadequate assessment of the scheduling of drill
investigations during monsoon periods, and (iv) the need for additional drilling beyond
that originally anticipated in order to accurately define the extent of mine fires.
6.    BCCL are already implementing small-scale fire control programs and, under an
MOC-sponsored Emergency Fund, are developing a demonstration resettlement scheme
incorporating rehabilitation of some 4,600 people in a new township. In order to better
prepare for government review of overall mine fire control and environmental/social
mitigation measures, BCCL are preparing terms-of-reference (TOR) for the preparation
of detailed Action Plans to prioritize and implement a major fire control program and
environmental/social mitigation scheme, supported by economic cost/benefit analyses,
where appropriate. This work will be lead by BCCL, supported by CMPDI[, and assisted
by international experts as required for guidance and analytical work. The mission is
encouraged by this BCCL initiative and has agreed to review and provide comments on
these TOR.
7.    The mission was informed that the report of the MOC Higher Leve] Committee to
identify issues relating to subsidence, fire control and resettlement in the Raniganj (ECL)
and Jharia (BCCL) coalfields (and which incorporated consideration of the project
consultant reports and project workshops held) has been submitted to the Prime
Minister's office for review. Key considerations of the Committee included, inter alia, (i)
government mechanisms to develop institutional arrangements to review coalfield fire,
subsidence and resettlement issues; (ii) mechanisms to provide funding to address the
issues; and (iii) mechanisms to identify suitable projects for implementation. The
mission concurred with DEA/MOC that (i) the ICR should strongly underscore the need
for detailed Action Plans to be developed to facilitate implementation of Jharia mine fire
control (and related environmental and social issues), and (ii) necessary local and
international technical assistance required to assist BCCL in this area should be
mobilized without delay.
8.    The mission confirmed that IDA's draft ICR will be submitted for review by the
Borrower and BCCL, within one month of the mission's return to Washington, in order to
facilitate IDA processing of the ICR within the present IDA fiscal year.



15
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2450-IN)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION 3
Introduction:
This is an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jharia Mine Fire Control
Technical Assistance project in India.
The International Development Association (IDA) sanctioned a Credit of US$12.0
million to the Government of India to be passed on as loan to Bharat Coking Coal
Limited for Jharia Mine Fire Control Technical Assistance project, comprising of two
parts, namely:
A.    Development of fire fighting program to bring Jharia coalfield fires under
control.
B.   Preparation of an Environment Management Plan of Jharia coalfield.
The value of the project was US$14.30 million with the following break up:
IDA Credit                                  US$12.00 million
Contribution of Government of India         US$ 2.30 million
Total                    US$ 14.30 million
The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement were signed on 20th
April, 1993, in Washington, USA. Subsidiary Loan Agreement was signed between
Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and the Government of India in July, 1993, in New
Delhi. The Credit became effective from September 1993. The Government of India
approved the Jharia Mine Fire Technical Assistance Project on 27th June, 1994. Two
consultants were engaged by BCCL, one each for fire control and preparation of EMP of
Jharia Coalfield. The final contract between BCCL and the two consultants were signed
on 27th and 28th June, 1994. Letter of credit was opened with State Bank of India,
3 This section is the Borrower's Contribution. A copy of the original letter facsimile transmission dated
March 6, 1998 is in the project file.



16
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
Dhanbad in favor of both the Consultants on 18th July, 1994. Fire fighting and
environment Cells were constituted in April 1993. A Panel of Experts comprising of Mr.
Robert C. Oberman (USA) and Mr. H. B. Ghosh (India) was appointed as reqliired under
Project Agreement. In accordance with the requirements of Development Credit
Agreement, an advisory panel comprising of eleven members (representing CIL, BCCL,
State Government, District Authorities and NGO) was constituted. The project was
completed on September 30, 1997. However, disbursement from the credit was made till
February 24, 1998 in respect of the eligible expenditure on the project incurred before the
closing date of September 30, 1997.
Project Objectives
The main objective of this project was to carry out a diagnostic study of the fires of the
Jharia coalfield, its remedial measures for fire control and preparation of Environmental
Management Plan of Jharia Coalfield.
A.    Fire Fighting Program
The consultants were required to carry out studies and submit report in three parts,
namely Priority I, Priority II, Priority III fires, each relating to the part of the Coalfield
starting from western end and terminating in south-east end. Final Report combining of
all the three reports was to be submitted at the end of the study.
The study was required to include the following subject matter:
a)    Inventory, boundaries and critical parameters of fires.
b)    Possible spread and estimated rate of spread of fires vertically and horizontally.
c)    Potential danger to surface structures arising from spread and rate of spread of
fires.
d)    Evaluation of cost benefits for the most suitable method for remediation of fires.
e)    Identification of Potential Mining Blocks which could be economically exploited.
f)    Recommendations and conclusions.
B.    Environment Management Plan
The consultants were required to:
*     Carry out baseline survey covering the Jharia coalfield (JCF) and an area
extending about 25 kms, from the boundary of JCF.
*     Assess the magnitude of the environmental and social impact of coal mining and
the fire, as a result of past activities and the expected expansion of mining
activities as well as the fire.
*     Systematically evaluate alternative options for mitigating these impacts, in
particular the need for large scale resettlement of the people.



17
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
Involve representative of the local population in the evaluation processTrain
client's personnel of the Environmental Cell in the analysis of environmental and
social issues related to coal mining and choice of mitigate measures.
Prepare Environmental Impact Assessment reports for priority I, II, & III fires.
Based on these analysis, prepare Environmental Management Plan of Jharia
Coalfield.
Implementation and Results
A. Fire fighting program
A very detailed study of the fires of the Jharia Coalfield was carried out by the Fire
Consultants. The equipment specifications, drilling requirement, drill hole specifications
were prepared by the consultants for fire fighting program. Global Positioning System
(GPS) equipment along with computer hardware and software and temperature
monitoring equipment were procured for the study. GPS survey was done for site
reconnaissance, precise delineation of fire areas, location of boreholes and other
topographical features. 641 numbers of boreholes were drilled and temperature inside the
boreholes were measured for determining the status of fires below ground and for
delineation of fire perimeters. Remote sensing data, following the Thermal infrared
Survey (TIR) carried out by the scanner aboard the aircraft flying at low height, was
supplied by National Remote Sensing Agency (NRSA), Hyderabad.
The draft reports were reviewed by BCCL, Coal India (CIL), Central Mine Planning and
Design Institute (CMPDIL), the Advisory Panel and the Panel of the Experts and their
comments were sent to the consultants to be incorporated in the final fire reports. The
Panel of Experts discussed the findings of the study with the consultants. Necessary
corrections/modifications were incorporated in the reports by the consultants after
discussion with the Panel of Experts.
The consultants identified the alternative options for fighting each individual fire with
approximate cost for each option. They also identified certain potential Mining blocks
which could be mined economically such as Kusunda, Block VII, Tisra & Block III-IV
and carried out cost benefit analysis. Cost-benefit analysis was confined to the four
potential O/C. mining block only. The economic analysis was done considering that the
fires would be dealt with in these blocks Quantum of coal saved, as a result of fire
measures was also worked out.



18
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
B. Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
The activities related to preparation of EMP were baseline surveys for land use, soil,
surface features and topography, socio-economic study, air and water quality monitoring,
dust and traffic study, vegetation study, general environment and soil study etc..
Traffic study was off loaded to Central Fuel Research Institute (CFRI), Dhanbad. Part of
socio-economic studies relating to rapid rural assessment, household survey and host site
selection and inventorisation were done by M/S Operation Research Group, Calcutta and
vegetation study was done by RS. More College. Land use maps, soil map, base map
consisting of surface features and topography, aerial photographs, photo mosaic and
digital satellite date were obtained from national Remote Sensing Agency (NRSA),
Hyderabad. Air monitoring and inventorisation was done for all the four seasons at 30
sampling stations. Water quality study was carried out at 150 sampling stations. Soil
quality monitoring was completed for necessary parameters in various parts of the
coalfield. The study was carried out by the Environment consultants in areas of Socio-
economics, air/water quality, meteorology, soil, reclamation, hydrology end vegetation.
Environmental Impact Assessment of the mitigation measures relating to fire control
measures contained in the fire reports submitted by the Fire Consultants were prepared by
the Environment Consultants. The draft EMP report consisting of reclamation, socio-
economics and air quality were prepared. The reports were scrutinized by BCCL,
CMPDIL, and the Advisory Panel and the comments were incorporated in the final EMP.
Preliminary cost benefit analysis was carried out for R & R (Resettlement and
Rehabilitation), and for reclamation.
Project Cost:
The expenditure on implementation of the Jharia Mine Fire Control Technlical Assistance
Project was as under:
Description          Particulars           World Bank       Amount spent
Allocation      Credit utilized
(Mill. US$)      (Mill. US$)
IDA Credit   Consultancy                       4.465 *          5.0907
Equipment                         1.116            0.7185
Survey & Support Services         4.465            2.822
Unallocated                       1.954            0.00..
Total                             12.00            8.6612
* Amount as per original contract with consultant was US$4.7564 million. additional
sanction of US$0.6543 was obtained from World Bank for payment to the Consultants.



19
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
Thus total sanction from World Bank towards consultancy amounted to US$5.4107
million against which the actual expenditure was US$5.0907 million.
The expenditure on the project borne by BCCL (Indian component) was as under:
Particulars              Sanctioned Cost    Expenditure incurred
(Mill. US$)              till
date (Mill. US$)
Income tax and R&D                       1.83                 1.45
Custom duty Freight                     0.47                  0.10
Sub-total                         2.30                  1.55
Other Contingency, obligation to the
consultants and capital expenses         1.33                 0.78
Total                             3.63                  2.33
Project Schedule
As per the original schedule the study was to be completed by December 1994. Delays
were incurred in the selection of the Consultants on account of certain objections raised
by some of the prospective consultants on various issues such as receipt of bid documents
and selection procedure etc. adopted by BCCL. Acceptance of certain mandatory
contract provisions was also delayed by one of the Consultant. Administrative delays
occurred also in the World Bank in conveying decision to these controversial issues.
Further element of delays were introduced in finalisation of specifications by the
consultants, procurement of equipment, drilling of additional length of borehole. the
project schedule was therefore, revised initially up to June 1996 then December 1996 and
finally up to September 1997 in view of the Workshop which took place in Pittsburgh,
USA in April 1997.
The fire study was completed in June 1996 and the EMP study was completed in
September 1996. The final Fire and EMP reports were submitted in December 1996 and
March 1997 respectively. The project was completed in September 1997.
Bank Performance:
The Bank rendered highly professional and competent advice and assistance from time to
time in the implementation of the project. The Bank missions visited CIL many times,
they visited four times to BCCL, Dhanbad during implementation of the project to
monitor the progress of implementation. During each visit, detailed discussions were
held by the World Bank officials with the Consultants, the counterpart staff, the BCCL



20
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
and CIL authorities. Their suggestions and guidance during such deliberations greatly
helped the Project to achieve the objective.
Borrower Performance:
The Borrower (BCCL) participated actively and provided all necessary assistance to the
Consultants for successful completion of the project. The company fulfilled all the
commitments and obligations towards the Consultants and all the concerned agencies
including the World Bank. Necessary and continued assistance and suppoi't was also
provided by Coal India Limited.
Following the completion of the project. BCCL has continued to work closely with
Central and State Government officials to develop implementation projects for Fire and
Subsidence control and resettlement of people affected due to fires and subsidence. For
expediting the implementation of this project BCCL has established a separate full
fledged Department headed under General Manager (Coalfield Reconstruction) in
addition to the existing Environment Department headed by General Manager
(Environment).
Consultants Performance:
The Fire Consultants made a very detailed study of the Jharia Coalfield for the diagnostic
study of the fires. The study was quite comprehensive and covered all the fire parameters
giving various possible options for controlling each fire individually. The merits and
demerits of each of the options and the cost involved for each option was evaluated.
Potential threat of fires to important surface infrastructures such as roads, railway lines,
jores, villages/townships etc. was also studied and suitable abatement measures were
suggested by the Consultants. Feasibility of open cast mining projects along with fire
dealing was also studied by the Consultants. Cost benefit analysis confined to four
potential open cast blocks only, with complete economics and IRR analysis.
The Environmental Management Plan prepared by the Environment Consultants
encompasses the detailed environmental study of air quality, water quality, soil quality,
land use study, socio-economic study, vegetation study etc. The study was based on the
historical data, field investigations, data generation (for about a year), soil and vegetation
data collection etc..
Base line survey of JCF and its buffer area, extending about 15 Km from the boundary of
JCF was under study for various environmental parameters. Environmental Impact
Assessment reports were prepared based on past and present data and based on these



21
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
analysis the Environmental Management Plan of Jharia Coalfield was prepared. The
important aspects of environmental study were comprehensive air quality modeling
(FDM), detailed socio-economic impact assessment including field surveys, use of GPS,
Remote Sensing Data, Geographical Information System (GIS) for land use survey and
preparation of plans etc.. The socio-economic consultants made a series of field visits
and interacted with local population, trade union leaders, local management to have an in-
depth discussion with the local population and to understand their views in respect of
R&R policy of CIL and rehabilitation needs.
Summary of Important Findings and Recommendations of the Project
Fire Study:
i)    Over all fires have reduced in area from 17 sq.km (1984) to 8.9 sq.km (1995).
ii)    Dhanbad-Patherdih rail line (2.8km) is endangered by fires and requires grout
stabilization; relocation preferred.
iii)   Adra-Gomoh rail line requires protection by isolation trench and water curtain.
iv)   Ekra, Kari and Chatkari Jore are endangered due to fires and requires immediate
grout stabilization.
v)    Jharia and Kirkend towns and other built up areas are endangered due to fires and
require immediate isolation from fires; shifting of townships have been
recommended as a better option.
vi)   Total extinguishment of fires immediately is not achievable but further advance of
fires can be controlled by application of the recommended fire control measures.
vii)  The technologies recommended for fire control are:
Surface sealing/blanketing by incombustible material
Digging out or excavate the hot burning material
Quenching using water cannons
Isolation of fire by trenching
Construction of water curtain
Isolation of fire by construction of sand/cement grout cut-off barrier
Backfilling high walls, shafts etc.
Stabilization by grouting
* Construct tunnel plugs
viii)  More improved use of existing technology has been recommended to help abate
fires in general.
ix)   Some fires may be excavated as part of a profitable open cast mining projects
such as Block-IlI, Block-IV, Kusunda, Block-VII and Tisra.



22
ANNEX2
Page 8 of 12
Environment Study
Socio-economic
i)    Unauthorized encroachment on BCCL property is rampant.
ii)    On account of financial constraints, lack of coordinated assistance from other
agencies, BCCL is not able to resettle more than 100 families per year on an
average.
iii)   22,300 families are required to be shifted on account of fires and mining activities
within the active mining areas.
Air Quality
i)    The coalfield contributes 15% of the total pollution load in Damoder River.
ii)    Construction of small reservoirs to the north of coalfields across the streams are
recommended.
Workshop Document and Action Plan
Based on the recommendations of the study by the consultants and a series of
presentations, seminars and deliberations of the workshops, the workshop documents was
finalized in May 1997 where in the number of projects totaling about 200 where
identified in respect of Fire Control, Subsidence Control measures, Rehabilitation and
Environmental Management Planning. All these identified Schemes/Projects of the
Action Plan for implementation have been documented in the "Workshop Final Report".
SL.      PARTICULARS                                     ESTIMATED COSTS
NO.                                                        (RS. CRORES)
A.       PROJECT COSTS FOR FIRE CONTROL /MITIGATION            1597.80
MEASURES IN CRITICAL AREAS INCLUDING
REHABILITATION OF ENDANGERED SETTLEMENT
B.       PROJECT COSTS FOR SUBSIDENCE                           367.00
MANAGEMENT/MITIGATION IN CRITICAL AREAS
INCLUDING REHABILITATION OF ENDANGERED
SETTLEMENT
C.       COSTS FOR MITIGATION ACTIVITIES FOR                   1331.00
SUBSIDENCE CONTROL IN SUB-CRITICAL AREAS
INCLUDING REHABILITATION
D.       PROJECT COSTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL                        770.00
MANAGEMENT
INCIDENTAL COST FOR SHIFTING OF ILLEGAL                 5.00
SETTLERS
GRAND TOTAL                                          4071.00
E.       PROJECT FOR NEW MINING BLOCKS                         1998.00
Block III
Blocks VII
Kusunda Blocks
Tisra Blocks



23
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 12
Action Taken and Future Program
More than 200 projects have been identified for fire and subsidence control,
environmental mitigation and rehabilitation as already mentioned above. 8 Project
reports for an investment of Rs. 1618 Crores have been formulated by CMPDIL for
dealing of fire and subsidence control. The formulated schemes are:
i)    Dealing with fire and subsidence at Industry
ii)    Dealing with fire and subsidence at Rajapur
iii)   Dealing with fire and subsidence at Alkusa
iv)   Dealing with fire and subsidence at Lodna
v)    Stabilization below Jharia Water Board Tank for subsidence control at East
Bhuggatdih
vi)   Stabilization below Kusunda Yard for subsidence control at Khas Kusunda
vii)  Stabilization below Chatkari Jore for subsidence control at Joyrampur
viii) Stabilization below Kari Jore for subsidence control at Kusunda/Industry
Funds are being Sanctioned by the Government for Implementation of above
Projects
A High Level Committee under the Chairmanship of Sri N.P.Baghchee, Secretary,
Ministry of Coal was appointed by the Government in December, 1996 to look into the
problems of Fire and Subsidence in Jharia and Ranigani Coalfields. The final report of
the Committee has been recently received. Over 22,000 houses are situated in critically
endangered areas of BCCL which require immediate shifting.
A program for shifting of people from most endangered areas of BCCL has been prepared
for immediate shifting of 4600 houses (1500 BCCL+3 100 non-BCCL) for an investment
of Rs. 33.88 Crores. Advance action for implementation of this program has already
begun. The proposal is under approval of the Government.
Action Plan
The implementation of about 200 projects as mentioned elsewhere is likely to span over a
period 10 to 20 years. A detailed exercise is now needed to be carried out to identify a
time bound activity program for implementation of the schemes with their cost-benefit
analyses.
BCCL now intends to prepare Action Plans for implementation of Fire Control and
Environmental/Social mitigation measures and the economic costs/benefits of such
measures. It is expected that services of some international consultants/economist may
be required for a short period to finalize the Action Plans. Terms of reference for
local/international experts are therefore being developed for this purpose.



BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED
JHARIA MINE FIRE CONTROL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STATUS OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND CREDIT UTILIZATION AS ON FEBRUARY 28,1998
Category      World        As per original contract                          Amount spent/credit utilized                      Total
Bank         with consultant
Allocation    Particulars     Mill US$            IDA Credit Portion                 BCCL/GOI Portion
(Mill US$)                                Foreign     Local       Total       Foreign    Local       Total      (Mill US$)
(Mill US$)  (Mill US$)  (Mill US$)  (Mill US$)  (Mill US$)  (Mill
US$)
Consultancy                GAL/Met-Chem   2.4556        2.7012      0.0388      2.7400      -           0.8044      0.8044
Jt Venture
Norwest Mine    2.2448       1.9366      0.1628     2.0994      -           0.5741      0.5741
Services
Panel of Experts  0.0550     0.0550      0.0003     0.0553      -           0.0139      0.0139
Workshop on      -           0.1963      0.0018     0.1981      -           0.0487      0.0487
the Project
4.4050                        4.7584      4.8891      0.2037      5.0928     -           1.4411      1.4411     6.5339
Equipment                  Computer W/s                 -           0.1497      0.1497      -           -           -
for fire
Computer w/s                 -           0.1270     0.1270      -           -           -
for EMP
Global                       0.1267      0.0035     0.1302      -           0.0445      0.0445
Positioning
System
MinePlan                     0.0498      -          0.0498      -           0.0476      0.0476
S/Lynx Plus
.~~~~~~~~ I           4
ozw



Category     World       As per original contract                      Amount spent/credit utilized                 Total
Bank        with consultant
Allocation   Particulars    Mill US$          IDA Credit Portion              BCCL/GOI Portion
(Mill US$)                             Foreign    Local     Total      Foreign    Local      Total     (Mill US$)
(Mill US$) (Mill US$) (Mill US$) (Mill US$) (Mill US$) (Mill
US$)
Temp.                     0.0053     -          0.0053     -          -          -
Monitoring &
the Mocouple
Laboratory                0.0443     -          0.0443     -          0.0117     0.0117
Equipment
(Imported)
Other                                0.2422     0.2422     -          -          -
Equipment
1.1160                                0.2261     0.5224     0.7485     -          0.1038     0.1038    0.8523
Survey &                 NRSA Remote                -          0.6937    06937      -
Support                  Sensing
Services
Drilling in JCF           -          2.1048     2.1048
Training to               0.0235     -          0.0235                0.0089     0.0089
Consultants on
GPS Survey by
ADR Associates,
USA
4.485                                 0.0235     2.7985     2.8220                0.0089     0.009     2.8309
Unallocated   1.984     .
Total        12.00                                  5.1387     3.5246    8.6633                1.5538     1.5538    10.2171
tD
o Ct



Category     World        As per original contract                        Amount spent/credit utilized                   Total
Bank        with consultant
Allocation    Particulars    Mill US$          IDA Credit Portion                BCCL/GOI Portion
(Mill US$)                              Foreign    Local      Total       Foreign    Local      Total      (Mill US$)
(Mill US$) (Mill US$) (Mill US$)  (Mill US$)  (Mill US$) (Mill
__________          _________             ~~ ~~US$)_   _ _ _ _ _
Other contingencies                                                     0.7800      0.7800    0.7800
contractual obligation to the
consultants and Bank
charges which are common
expenses not proportionable
correctly
Grand Total  12.00                                    5.1387     3.5246     8.6633                 2.3338     2.3338     10.9971
Remarks: 1. The expenditure shown under "Local" column under BCCL/GOI portion against "Consultancy" category and Survey
and Support Services' category represents Income Tax and R & D less payment.
2.  The expenditure shown under Local column under the BCCL/GOI portion against "equipment" category represents
custom duty.
3.  Figures are provisional and subject to change during audit or reconciliation with CIL Ministry.
F'd
(D
o M
Fh .



