E570
April 2002
Annex
Environmental Assessment
Hospital Waste Management in Honduras
I. Review of existing legislation regarding hospital waste management
Excerpts of key legislation covering hospital waste management are as follows:
Health Code (Decree No 65-91 dated May 28, 1991), General Provisions
Article 3 - The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health, which for the purposes of
this Law shall be called "The Secretariat," shall be responsible for defining the national
health policy, the regulation, planning and coordination of all public and private activities in
the field of health. At departmental and municipal levels, it shall act through regional
leadership and health areas, respectively, under a rational principle of administrative
coordination and decentralization.
Article 5 - For purposes of operational coordination, the health sector is comprised of the
following agencies and institutions:
a) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health;
b) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Government and Justice;
c) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Labor and Social Security;
d) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Education;
e) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Natural Resources and Environment;
f) The State Secretariat in the Bureaus of Planning, Coordination and Budget;
g) The Honduran Institute of Social Security, the National Autonomous Service of
Aqueducts and Sewers and Autonomous Agencies whose own law assigns them activities
in this regard;
h) Municipalities, with regard to the obligations imposed on them by this code;
i) Public and private, national and foreign and international agencies which, in virtue of the
Law, agreement or treaty, are authorized to carry out activities, cooperate or advise on the
matter of public health.
Book II - On Health Promotion and Protection, Title I - Environmental Sanitation, Chapter
IV
Article 51 - Among others, solid waste is defined as: (e) waste produced in public and private
health establishments, whether contaminated or not; (f) waste that produces ionized radiation.
Article 52 - Trash of any kind must be eliminated in a sanitary manner. Municipalities must
organize, contract and assume the responsibility for trash cleaning, collection, treatment and
disposal, in compliance with regulatory standards.
Article 53 - Only lands that are expressly and previously authorized by municipalities with
the favorable opinion of the Secretariat may be used as sites for final disposal of trash.
Article 56 - The Secretariat shall rate the sites to establish trash collection, storage,
classification and separation.
General Regulation on Environmental Health
2,' -^ *^      %$ 



General Provisions, Chapter VII, Regarding Solid Waste (Trash)
Article 61: For the purposes of this Regulation and in accordance with provisions in Article
51 of the Code, the generic name of trash is given to: (a)... (e) waste produced in public and
private health establishments, whether contaminated or not; (f) waste that produces ionized
radiation.



Article 64: According to their law and health code, municipalities are responsible for
organizing, contracting and assuming responsibility for trash services, collection, treatment
and final disposal. Special handling and treatment of hazardous waste from hospitals must
also be considered. Such handling must comply with technical standards for personnel safety
and proper isolation of hazardous waste. Treatment should be considered under three
systems: (a) incineration; (b) autoclave; and (c) special sanitary landfill. The treatment
selected will depend on the waste produced or some other alternative that is available in
accordance with technological progress.
General Environmental Law
Decree Number 104-93 dated May 27,1993, Title IV, Chapter IV, Environment and Human
Health
Article 74: The State, through the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health and with
the collaboration of the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Environment, shall oversee
compliance with general and special laws regarding basic sanitation and air pollution, water
and soils, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living environment for the population.
Article 75: In terms of their territorial jurisdiction and in accordance with the State's general
policy, municipalities shall take environmental contamination control measures according to
prevailing natural, social and economic conditions.
Article 76: The Executive Branch shall establish permissible levels of contamination, in light
of the results of pertinent research and international standards.
Title V, Special Provisions for Environmental Protection, Chapter I, General aspects
Article 78: Individuals or corporations, whether public or private, that wish to carry out any
work or activity that might seriously alter or deteriorate the environment, including natural
resources, are obliged to inform the relevant authority, due to the subject matter and to
prepare an environmental impact assessment (EIA) in accordance with provisions in Article 5
of this law.
These activities include chemical, petrochemical, steel, petroleum and tanning industries,
paper mills, sugar refineries, distilleries, coffee processing plants, and agro-industry in
general; power generation and transmission, mining; construction and administration of waste
and toxic and hazardous substances, projects in the sectors of tourism, recreation,
urbanization, forestry, human settlements and any other industries that may cause severe
damage to the ecological balance.
General Regulation of the General Environmental Law
Agreement no. 109-93 dated December 20, 1993, Chapter II, General Principles
Article 9: The introduction into the country of radioactive toxic waste, household trash,
sludge or raw sewage and others considered harmful or contaminating, is prohibited.
Likewise, national territory and national waters may not be used to dump such materials.
Title IV, Environmental elements different from natural resources, Chapter II, Environment
and Human Health



Article 75: The State Secretariat in the Office of Public Health will be responsible for
coordinating and overseeing compliance with general and special laws regarding basic
sanitation and air, water and soil pollution, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate
living environment for the population. The State Secretariat in the



Bureau of Health shall perform this function with the collaboration of the Secretariat of
Environment. In any case, the decisions made by that State Secretariat in fulfillment of this
function should be based upon the principles established by the Law and this regulation.
Likewise, they shall be applied to resolve conflicts of interpretation that may arise in the
application of sectoral laws.
Article 76 - Under the respective terms, municipalities shall be qualified to adopt specific
measures for conservation and control of environmental contamination, according to
prevailing natural, social and economic conditions. These measures should be in line with
the policy on this subject formulated by the State Secretariats in the Bureau of Public Health
and the Environment.
Regulation for solid waste management, Dated June 6,2001
Chapter II, Regarding Definitions
Solid waste with special characteristics includes: solids, fluid and thick liquid gases in
containers which, due to their chemical reactivity, toxic, explosive, corrosive, radioactive or
other characteristics, are harmful to health or the environment.
This waste needs special handling and surveillance, from its generation to its final disposal.
Depending on its type and origin, it is grouped as follows (...):
From health establishments: this requires special handling inside and outside the
health institution where it is generated. It comes from areas where patients with
infectious and contagious conditions are kept in isolation, microbiological
laboratories, surgery, childbirth, hemodialysis services and others, also including
human organic remains from the areas of surgery, childbirth, morgue and pathologic
anatomy, as well as remains of animals used for diagnostic and experimental testing,
and the generation of expired pharmaceuticals.
Chapter III, Regarding General Provisions
Article 6: According to its physical, chemical and biological composition, solid waste is
classified as being of two types:
A) Non-hazardous
b) Hazardous
Article 7: From a sanitary standpoint, waste management is classified in two categories:
A) Provision of public service
a) Special handling
Article 8: From a health standpoint, the objective of the provision of public trash collection
services shall be the management of household, commercial, institutional and agricultural
waste, non-hazardous hospital waste and non-hazardous health center waste, and trash on
public roads, except that which, due to its nature, size and volume, cannot be incorporated
into waste management, in the municipality's opinion, according to its operational capacity.
Article 9: The objective of the provision of special waste management shall be the
management of solid waste with special characteristics, packaging and containers of any type



of chemical product, especially agrochemicals and preparations for agricultural and livestock
use, trash which, due to its location, is difficult to handle due to



the inaccessibility of trash vehicles and others not contemplated in the previous Article which
require special handling conditions.
Article 10: Solid waste management consists of the following activities:
A) Storage
B) Collection
c) Transportation
d) Recovery
e) Treatment
f) Final disposal
Chapter IV, Sanitary Management of Non-Hazardous Waste, Chapter V, Sanitary
Management of Special Waste
Article 47. The entire special waste management system must be submitted for approval by
the State Secretariat in the Bureaus of Health, subject to an Environmental License issued by
the State Secretariat in the Bureaus of Natural Resources and Environment for the treatment
and sanitary disposal of waste.
Article 48. Infectious and contagious waste may be disposed of in the sanitary landfill, after
being treated by means of incineration or sterilization. In extraordinary situations, this type
of waste may be accepted without treatment in specially-equipped containers, in which case
the authorization for the dumping site and for procedures to carry this out shall be issued by
the Health Secretariat.
Article 51. The interested party or person responsible for transporting solid waste with
special characteristics should request and obtain prior permission from the State Secretariat in
the Bureau of Health, which shall establish the minimum conditions for vehicles to be used
for this purpose, as well as the establishment of necessary standards for the protection of
operators and living beings.
Article 52. Operators in charge of handling solid waste with special characteristics should be
trained to handle such waste and have the necessary personal protection equipment and
implements, according to stipulations issued by the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Labor
and Social Security on the subject of hygiene and industrial safety.
Article 53: Management of solid waste with special characteristics is the responsibility of the
person or entity generating such waste.
Regarding storage of special waste
Article 54: Solid waste with special characteristics should be stored using containers that are
different from those used for ordinary service; these containers should be clearly identified
and special health and safety measures should be observed to protect human and
environmental health.
Article 55: Disposable, non-biological waste, considered as pathogenic solid waste, such as
hypodermic needles and other types of instruments, may only be mixed with this type of
waste when measures are taken aimed at avoiding risks in joint handling; otherwise it should
be stored separately.



Article 56: Containers for storage of solid waste with special characteristics should be
hermetically sealed and duly marked with measures to be taken in case of emergency.



Article 57: The material(s) used in the manufacture of containers for waste storage in order
to ensure the safety of the process, must be in accordance with the characteristics of such
waste in order to ensure the safety of the process.
Article 58: Temporary storage areas for pathogenic solid waste in the buildings where it is
generated, should at least meet the following requirements:
A) They should have air extractors with biological filters.
b) They should be marked so that they can be easily identified and should be under the
express prohibition on permitting the entry of persons not involved in this activity.
c) They should be disinfected and deodorized frequently to ensure hygienic, safe and
sanitary conditions.
d) They should have the safety devices needed to prevent and control accidents and fires.
Article 59: Solid waste with special characteristics shall be held as such even though it may
be suitable for packaging or containers.
Article 60: Any mix of trash that includes pathogenic solid waste is considered waste with
special characteristics.
II. Institutional Responsibilities in hospital waste management
According to Article 53 of the Regulation for Solid Waste Management dated June 6, 2001,
the management of solid waste with special characteristics is the responsibility of the person
or entity which generates such waste. According to Article 59 of the same Regulation, solid
waste with special characteristics shall be held as such even though it may be suitable for
handling in packaging or containers and according to Article 60, any mix of trash that
includes pathogenic solid waste is considered solid waste with special characteristics.
According to Chapter 11 of the Regulation, with regard to Definitions, solid waste with
special characteristics from health establishments is that which requires special handling
inside and outside the health institution where it is generated. Such waste comes from areas
where patients with infectious or contagious conditions are kept in isolation, from
microbiological laboratories, surgery, childbirth, hemodialysis services and others, and also
includes human organic remains from the areas of surgery, childbirth, morgue and
pathological anatomy, as well as remains of animals used for diagnostic testing or
experiments, and expired pharmaceuticals.
According to Article 8 of Chapter II of this same Regulation, from a sanitary standpoint the
objective of the provision of public trash collection services will be to manage household,
commercial, institutional and agricultural waste, non-hazardous hospital waste, non-
hazardous health center waste, and trash on public roads, except that which, by its nature, size
and volume, cannot be incorporated in waste management in the opinion of the municipality,
according to its operational capacity and according to Article 9: the objective of the provision
of special handling will be to manage solid waste with special characteristics, packaging or
containers of any type of chemical product, especially agrochemicals and preparations for
agricultural and livestock use, trash which, due to its location, is difficult to manage due to
the inaccessibility of trash trucks and those not contemplated in the previous Article which
require special handling conditions.
Thus, under the new Regulation, all management of special solid waste - storage,
collection, transportation, recovery, treatment and final disposal - is the responsibility



of the person or entity that generates it, i.e., of public or private health establishments.
The objective of the provision of public trash collection is to manage non-hazardous
hospital waste and non-hazardous waste from health centers. As we shall see later, in
practice, although waste from health establishments undergoes some degree of
separation within such establishments, during the collection process hazardous waste
is mixed with non-hazardous waste, which then takes on the characteristics of special
waste. With regard to surveillance, according to Article 74 of the General Environmental
Law, "The State, through the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health and with the
collaboration of the State Secretariat in the Bureau of the Environment, shall oversee
compliance with general and special laws regarding basic sanitation and air pollution, water
and soils, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living environment for the
population".
According to Article 75, Title IC of the same Law, referring to environmental elements
different from natural resources, Chapter II on Environment and Human Health, "The State
Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health shall be responsible for coordinating and
overseeing compliance with general and special laws regarding basic sanitation and air, water
and soil pollution, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living environment for the
population".
According to the Health Code and Article 65 of the General Regulation on Environmental
Health, the pertinent General Bureau of Health of the Health Secretariat shall issue, through
the Health Department, the technical standards concerning the sanitary systems for collection,
treatment and final disposal of trash, which are mandatory for municipalities or other public
or private entities which are in charge of this type of services, as well as for employees who
must issue opinions in this field.
The Health Secretariat, in turn, is structured in three under-secretariats: (i) population risks;
(ii) service network; (iii) regulation and sectoral policy and four General Bureaus belonging,
respectively to: (i) the General Bureau of Population Risks; (ii) the General Bureau of
Regulation and Development; and (iii) the General Bureau of Hospitals and the General
Bureau of Service Networks. In turn, the General Bureaus are structured in Departments, or
in the case of the General Bureau of Hospitals, in Departments and Hospitals and the General
Bureau of Service Networks in eight Regions.
In the Under-Secretariat of Population Risks, a project for the management of solid waste
from hospitals is currently being executed, directly linked to the General Bureau of
Population Risks. The work of this project is closely coordinated with the Department of
Environmental Sanitation of this same Under-Secretariat and with the Bureau of Hospitals,
Department of Hospitals and the Under-Secretariat of Networks.
With this type of coordination, there are several practical problems with regard to solid waste
management, since the project is in a under-secretariat which has a regulatory function and its
implementation is carried out by another under-secretariat - the service network.
With regard to overseeing the internal management of hospital waste, according to
information received from the Health Secretariat, it is not well defined within this Secretariat.
Currently, the directors of health establishments are responsible for implementing waste
management.



The Honduran Institute of Social Security (IHSS) should comply with the same health
regulations and other health laws. The control of solid waste management in its hospitals is
carried out by the Department of Preventive Medicine. The State Secretary (of Health) is a
member of the boards of directors of institutions that comprise the health sector, including
IHSS. It is at this level that major decisions are made regarding the execution of programs
and projects.
To ensure that good waste management practices are used in hospitals and health centers, a
preliminary draft of the regulation for the management of hazardous waste from health
establishments was submitted for consideration. The elements that have taken part in the
preparation of this preliminary draft were: the Association of Municipalities of Honduras, the
Municipality of Honduras, the Department of Epidemiology of the Health Secretariat, the
Bureau of Environmental Inspection, the Teaching Hospital, the Secretariat of Natural
Resources, CESCCO (Center for Studies and Control of Contaminants) and the Legal
Advisory Office of the



Health Secretariat. This preliminary draft has been with the Legal Advisory Office for about
eight months, for consideration and approval. This document currently would need to revised
and adjusted in light of the recently-approved Solid Waste Management Regulation.
III. Current practices regarding the production, processing, transportation and storage
or disposal of hospital waste or toxic material in Honduras
One of the country's principal health and environmental problems consists of improper
handling of trash or solid waste in general. In a study performed by Montoya in 1997, of the
43 municipalities for which information was obtained, only 8 report coverage of over 50
percent of the population and in several cases waste is disposed of in dumps.' Other data
indicate that the country has 48 dumps, 4 sanitary landfills and 1 crematorium for final
disposal of trash.
In addition, solid waste generated in hospitals and health centers is handled internally and
externally almost totally as if it were household waste.
Approximately one-third of the waste generated in health establishments is infectious; the rest
is common waste (generated by administrative or general activities and similar to household
waste). In the "Study of Medical Waste Management in Hospitals and Health Centers,"
performed in 1995 by the Health Secretariat, the results obtained at the different health
establishments indicate that the generation of common waste is around 68 percent; at medical
and dental care centers it is 60 percent; and at rural health care centers (Cesares) it is 74
percent.
The average amount of hospital waste generated in Honduran hospitals is around 1.28 - 1.5
kg./bed/day2; at the Cesamos it is 0.07 kg/bed/day; and at the Cesares it is 0.03 kg/bed/day.
As in the case of the composition of such waste, these production parameters vary daily in the
same establishment, and much more so between one establishment and another3.
The following table indicates hospital waste production in 1995 and some data on partial
separation carried out inside several Honduran hospitals4. All hazardous waste is mixed with
non-hazardous waste, for final disposal, which, under the Regulation for Solid Waste
Management of July 2001, gives it the characteristics of special waste.
1 Report on the State of the Environment - Honduras 2000. Secretariat of Natural Resources and
Environment.
2 Project ALA/ 91/33
3 Health Secretariat - Nutrition and Health Project
4 Information on Project ALA 91/33 - Health Secretariat.



HOSPITAL WASTE SEPARATION: PROGRAM ALA 91/33
TEGUCIGALPA M.D.C. HONDURAS C.A.
FROM FEBRUARY 6 TO 16,1995
1. Teaching Hospital and Maternity  1034  80%         4.11       3,400               No separation
and Children's Hospital*
2. Honduran Medical Center**    20       50%          8.80         68         34         12         41,5
3. National Thorax Institute*   292      80%          1.92        450        250         200    1
4. Sta. Rosita National Psychiatric  300  110%        1.00        330         1.2
Hospital *                           l           l            l          l          l           l
5."Dr. Mario Mendoza" Psychiatric  80    100%         0.87         70                No separation
Hospital*                            l           l            l          l
6. San Felipe General Hospital*  397     70%         13.75       3,822      1,232       350        2,240
7. Medical-Surgical Hospital,  250       80%         4.02         804        140         66
IHSS*                                l           l            l          l          l     
8. Matemity and Children's     249       80%         4.57         911        714         85         112
Hospital, I.H.S.S*.                  l           l            l          l          l           l
9. Military Hospital**          30       100%        15.56        167                No separation
10 Polyclinic Hospital**        3 1      70%          8.27        162         37         61          84
11 Casa de Salud El Carmen**    30       70%          5.95        125                No separation
12 Viera Hospital and Clinic**  50       70%          9.28        325        119    |    161    I    45
TOTAL                                l           l            |  10,674      2,527
*Public Hospital
"*Private Hospital
Throughout the country, there are at least 11 incinerators in different hospitals, but, with the
exception of Catarino Rivas Hospital in San Pedro Sula, all are out of service for various
reasons, including the age of the equipment, lack of spare parts and lack of staff trained to
operate them5.
In some hospitals, there is a partial separation of hazardous waste and for some of this waste
there is some type of local treatment (syringes and needles, for example). The quantity of
containers existing in health establishments to handle all the waste generated in an adequate
and timely manner is generally insufficient. Although there is some segregation of hazardous
waste inside health establishments, it is mixed for outside collection, so that common waste
(68 percent on average) also takes on the characteristics of special waste, bringing with it a
great health risk.
External collection in health establishments is performed in different ways, either by the
municipal sanitation service, by private companies or with own resources. In general terms,
this collection does not meet requirements for the collection of special waste. Solid waste
from health establishments is collected, transported and disposed of by the municipal or
private sanitation service, with no differentiation being made between household and hospital
waste. In villages or small cities that lack sanitation services, solid waste from health
establishments is dumped on their own grounds, and it is burned daily to reduce its volume.
6
Other health establishments haul their solid waste to open dumps near the community.
5 Health Secretariat Report
6 Health Secretariat, Nutrition and Health Project






In general terms, internal and external management of solid waste from hospitals and health
centers is carried out in an inadequate and deficient manner due to various factors such as:
shortage or lack of personnel, inputs, working implements, equipment, infrastructure works
and treatment works; lack of technical advice and training of institutional staff, administrative
deficiencies in terms of resources and lack of specific regulation. The Health Secretariat has
trained the staff of sanitation companies that provide service to hospitals, both those that
work inside health establishments and those that work outside. However, the large staff
turnover in these companies, added to other factors already mentioned, kept this training from
having the expected impact on the management of hospitals' solid waste.
In Honduras, according to Article 64 of the General Regulation on Environmental Health,
municipalities, according to their law and the Health Code, are in charge of organizing,
contracting and assuming the responsibility for trash services, collection, treatment and final
disposal thereof.  In addition, special handling and treatment must be considered for
hazardous waste from hospitals. This handling must comply with technical standards for
staff safety and proper isolation of hazardous waste. Three systems of treatment should be
considered: (a) incineration, (b) autoclave, (c) special sanitary landfill.  The treatment
selected will depend on the waste produced or some other alternative that is available in
accordance with technological progress.  However, the Regulation on Solid Waste
Management dated June 6, 2001 has made the distinction between special and non-special
waste and municipalities would only be responsible for the management of non-special waste,
while the generator of special waste would be responsible for its management.
IV. Conclusions and Recommendations
In general, there is a lack of adequate management of hospital waste in Honduras. The
factors that determine inadequate management include: shortage or lack of staff, inputs,
supplies, equipment, infrastructure and treatment, lack of technical advice and training of
institutional and sanitation company personnel, administrative deficiencies in terms of
resources and lack of specific regulation.
Although there is some segregation of hazardous waste inside health establishments, it is
mixed for outside collection, so that common waste (68 percent on average) also takes on the
characteristics of special waste, bringing with it a great health risk.
External collection in health establishments is performed in different ways, either by the
municipal sanitation service, by private companies or with own resources. In general terms,
this collection does not meet requirements for the collection of special waste. Solid waste
from health establishments is collected, transported and disposed of by the municipal or
private sanitation service, with no differentiation being made between household and hospital
waste.
There is no regulation on internal management of solid waste in health establishments, which
hinders compliance with adequate measures.
Recommendations:
Provide adequate budget allocation, with national funds, to comply with current
regulations and management of complementary external cooperation funds.
Resources should cover both the construction and/or improvement of infrastructure,
such as necessary equipment, materials and inputs, as well as the ongoing training of



staff of health establishments regarding the importance and proper handling of waste
generated in such establishments, in all phases.
*  Review and update of the Study of Medical Waste Management in Hospitals and
Health Centers, in light of progress made since its preparation in 1995. Based upon
this, prepare an Integrated Management Plan



*  for Solid Waste in Health Establishments. It is important that work be performed
aiming at intra- and inter-institutional linkage and coordination in waste
management, linkage of operational efforts, coordination of different sources of
financing, as well as the search for funds to plan investments in hospital waste
management.
*  Assess the situation at health establishments with hazardous waste treatment
infrastructure that is out of service, it is important that a diagnostic be performed to
extract the lessons leamed or so that the existing equipment and installations can be
repaired and placed back in service.
*  Approve the preliminary draft of the regulation on hazardous waste management in
health establishments, subject to an analysis and review of its content in light of the
new Solid Waste Management Regulation. The existence of a regulation for
hazardous waste management would reinforce compliance within health
establishments.
*  Better integrate solid waste management in the Secretariat's organizational structure,
either in the Under-Secretariat of Population Risks, in the Service Network, or if
there is an agreement by which both Under-Secretariats would agree to support the
regulatory and operational provisions.
*  Ensure that contracts with Sanitation Companies within health establishments
are explicit with regard to hazardous waste management; contract clauses
should be complied with, and the stability of their workers should be
considered during contracting.



I



Page 1 of 1
This service is provided for international travelers by the World Bank. Please refer to the World Bank's Intranet
Institutional Information Kiosk for more information. Refer to the item titled "New Assistance for Mission
Travel" dated March 13, 2002.
Worldcue Travel Alert
Severity: Warning Alert
Security: UPDATE: Venezuelan national oil company executives strike April 4; tensions remain high.
This alert affects Venezuela.
This alert begins 04 Apr 2002 19:59 GMT.
UPDATE to March 26 alert; new intelligence in [brackets].
[Executives of PDVSA, the Venezuelan national oil company, began a strike April 4 to protest President Hugo
Chavez's appointments to the company board. The government has threatened to fire any striking employees.
This confrontation threatens to involve oil field personnel and severely impact the country's oil production.
Tensions remain high.]
[The conflict between Chavez and labor, business and church leaders continues the political instability in
Venezuela. Additional conflicts throughout Venezuela remain likely.] Demonstrations and strikes may become
violent. Maintain as low a profile as possible. Consult with your local hosts and contacts and monitor the local
media to maintain awareness of the situation in your immediate area. If you encounter a roadblock, be non-
confrontational and patient. If you encounter a developing and potentially dangerous situation, leave the area
quickly. Seek shelter in large stores, buildings, hotels, restaurants and churches. Do not seek refuge in
government buildings, banks, military facilities or police stations, as they may be targeted by protestors.
Related Advice: Personal security while walking.
Related Advice: Protecting yourself from security threats while driving abroad.
iJET alerts you to events and situations that might impact your destinations. Sign on to WorldcueServices
(http://www.worldcue.com/) to edit itineraries, profiles and alert delivery preferences.
Travel information in this document and in the included links is provided by iJET Travel Intelligence, Inc. While iJET constantly moritors
the changing world situation and strives for accuracy and timeliness, this information is provided to you on an "as is" basis, and your use
of this information is at your own risk
file:H/C:\Documents and Settings\wb 175385\Local Settings\Temp\V1 1113308.htm               4/4/2002



