IPP-10
April 2002
Social Assessment and Health Issues Among Indigenous Peoples
HONDURAS - HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROJECT
Main Social Development Social Issues
1.     Background. As poverty and equity have become the forefront issues in the development agenda
today, an increased amount of efforts from development and aid agencies has been undertaken to provide
the poor with means to acquire human and social capital, including quality health services. Lately,
particularly after Hurricane Mitch, Honduras has benefited from numerous participatory diagnosis about
how poverty was experienced by its population and the best ways to address and reduce it, on dimensions
as environment, education, nutrition, access to land, gender, natural disaster management, and health. The
most important of all these diagnosis has been the recently finalized PRSP, in which major stakeholders
analyzed and proposed on the several dimensions in which poverty is manifested, how it should be
strategically fought and how to face eventual risks and shortcomings of this proposed strategies. As
indigenous peoples and descendents of African slaves have been recognized as the poorest of all poor in
Central America, additional efforts have been dedicated not only to understand the roots of their exclusion
but also to design policies whose quest for sustainability depends on their adequacy to the historical and
cultural specificities of these populations. The World Bank has contributed to these efforts by undertaking
a Honduras Indigenous Peoples Profile, whose participatory field work was already finalized and final
analysis is currently under review. Both the PRSP and the Indigenous Peoples Profile provide the
proposed project with important insights on how it should be designed to reach the poor and indigenous
peoples within a framework that is socially and financially sustainable. In addition, the social assessment
for the Honduras Sustainable Tourism Project allows for complementary information about indigenous
and black communities in the Atlantic Coast Region, particularly on HIV/AIDS. Together, these
documents are the basis for a social evaluation of the proposed project at the design phases. At the
implementation phase, two new studies will be undertaken, a beneficiary assessment for the health sector,
including a users survey; and a geographical broader participatory consultation and assessment with
indigenous peoples about detailed health care issues, including traditional medicine and healers. Finally, it
is worthy noticing the project also draws from studies by Cristina Torres for PAHO on indigenous
peoples health in Latin America (Ethnicity and Health: Another Perspective Towards Equity). All these
documents are in the project files.
2.    Institutional Background. Honduras is one of the poorest countries in the region - according to
the PRSP, 57 percent of households in urban areas and 75 percent of households in rural areas are below
the poverty line, with extreme poverty affecting 37 percent of urban households and 65 percent of rural
households. With education, access to land, environment, violence and gender, health has been a major
concern during the PRSP consultation.
3.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) is the leading institutioni in the health sector. In 1998, the health
network managed by MOH included 28 hospitals, eight maternal/infantile clinics, 21e health centers, 796
rural health centers and 212 pharmacies. The National Social Security Institute (NSSI)is the second most
important institution in the system, managing three hospitals, twelve ambulatory clinics and 406
pharmacies. Differently from MOH, financed by the Treasure, NISS is also (heavily under) financed by
contributions of employers and employees. In principle, it covers not only employees but also their
families.
4.    In theory, about 80 percent of the population have regular access to public health care, of which
about 60 percent is covered by MOH, approximately 11 percent by NISS and the rest directly insured.
About 15 percent of the population is privately insured, through profit and non-profit organizations,
including religious. Recent priorities by MOH include (a) as a way of expanding the access to services
w-.v
IFL            C.S _ we



and the response capacity at the community level, a basic package of benefits, universal access, and
specific strategies, as mobile surgery projects, mobile laboratory equipments and dentistry; and (b) in
order to strengthen the service networks, the set up of maternal and child clinic, maternity homes and
houses of community clean delivery care, financed jointly by local governments and MOH. In practice,
the functioning of these policies have not been assessed and to date, a national evaluation of user's
satisfaction has not been undertaken.
5.     New measures to make medications available has also been recently designed, and although
information about how they are performing equally lacks, there are some indications that they are have
achieved some degree of success. Community Medications Centers have been crated to support the
distribution of medicines but, still, the Centros are in a small number and have not been expanded to the
amount required to make results visible.
Box 1. NGO Participation Delivering Health Services to the Poor.
Since 1997, Partners in Health has teamed with the Brigham and Women's Hospital to help improve the
medical care of rural Honduras. Together, they provide operational and program support for PROMESA,
an integrated rural developmenit project located in the mounitains of the Yegure regioni. In partnerslhip with
local providers and medical institutions, PROMESA works to improve water quality and sanitation, while
offering training for local health-care providers, teachers and youth groups about health-related topics,
securing medications and equipment for local health centers, and providing direct medical care in the
form of brigades and rotations for medical residents. PRMESA organizes six health brigades annually.
Each brigade lasts one week, and is made up of about twenty people, including doctors,
nursepractitioners, nurse midwives, and dentists. The Brigades operate as traveling clinics in these remote
areas, directly providing care for more than 2,000 people per visit and also contributing medications and
supplies in local health centers.
Source: Partners in Health, http:www.pih. org/Honduras/index. asp.
6.     Expenditures in health were 2.5 percent of the GDP in 1999 but only one percent was spent on
basic services. Health expenditures are 11.1 percent of the total governmental expenditures but only 4,7
percent goes to health services. Primary care receives 60.7 percent of the total governmental expenditures
with health services, whereas secondary care and tertiary care responds for 23.6 percent and 24.8 percent
respectively. Although these numbers indicate increasingly attention to health, they also indicate that
urban areas gets the bulk of this attention, limiting, as a consequence, the impacts of the expenditures.
7.     Health Status and Population. The Honduran population is youthful, rapidly urbanizing. Data
from PAHo show that about 42 percent of the Honduran population aged less than 15 years old. Although
declining from 5.4 to 4.3 children per woman from 1988 to 1997, the total fertility rate remain higher than
in Latin America. The fertility rate is the highest among adolescents and while women over their lives
give birth to fewer children than in the past, younger women patterns of marriage and childbearing
continue consistent with two decades ago. In 1997, in average, Honduran women married at 22 years old.
In rural areas, the fertility rate among women aged 14-18 years reaches 2.2 children per woman. Internal
and international migration remains high. Indeed, as a combined result of migration and fertility patterns,
the urban population growth rate has exceeded the Latin American average of 2.2 percent; more than half
of the populations of Honduras are currently urban dwellers (WDI 1999).
8.     For both sexes, differently from Costa Rica and Panama which have the highest life expectancy in
the region, Honduras share with Guatemala the lowest. Life expectancy at birth for both men and women
has increased in recent. Life expectancy improved from 64.9 years in 1988 to 69.2 years in 1998, with
sustainable gains for the population older than 65 years, which, in absolute numbers, this population
2



increased 30 percent during the period. Consistent with trends throughout LAC, female life expectancy is
higher than male's. In 1997, women were expected to outlive men by five years.
9.     Honduras is experiencing, to some extent, an epidemiological transition, from a pattern of of high
early mortality due to infectious disease to another of longer life expectancy and prevalence of chronic
diseases. This transition increases the pressure on the health care system which has to meet simultaneous
service demands for acute infectious diseases along with chronic diseases and cancer and cardiovascular
ailments that demandd costly services and the use modern technology.
10.   However, the most important pressures on the health system come from what are, essentially,
preventable ailments. The Honduran health profile is characterized by a strong presence of respiratory
infections with a rate of 17,374.4 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1998 which, according to MOH, was the first
cause for demand of services in 1998. Acute respiratory infections are the second cause of death among
children less than five, accounting for 24 percent of deaths in this group. Gastrointestinal diseases are also
common and respond for the first cause of infantile mortality. According to the 1996 Encuesta Nacional
de Epidemiologia y Salud Familiar, 19 percent of children less than five have had diarrhea in the two
weeks before the survey. Cholera has re-appeared in 1991 and since then charged a toll on lives, although
diminishing after 1996. Malaria and dengue are also prevalend, affecting mainly the working population.
About 300,000 Hondurans are affected by Chagas and Leishmaniasis is also prevalent in rural areas. But
Hondurans have been also increasingly affected by cardiovascular diseases and cancer has become the
fifth cause of death in the country.
Contraceptive prevalence
in Central America - 1986-1995
Percentage of married
women of reproductive
age using contraceptives
Country
Any       Modern
method/a   method/b
Costa         75         65
Rica
El            53         48
Salvador
Guatemala     31         27
Honduras      47         35
Nicaragua     49         45
Panama/c      64         58
Source: UN 1995
a/ Data from 1986, except where noted.
b/ Data from 1995, except where noted.
c/ Data from 1980 and 1985.
11.    AIDS. AIDS was for the first time detected in 1985 in Honduras with a reported total of 13,252
cases between 1985-1999. In 1998, new cases amounted to 1,3777. Honduras has the highest incidence of
3



AIDS in Central America at 23.3 cases per 100,000 inhabitants (PAHO), followed by Panama with 9.1;
Nicaragua has the lowest reported incidence (0.6), but this may be an artifact of data collection (UNDP,
1998). Although the majority of reported HIV/AIDS cases were men, now, according to PAHO, the
male/female rate is 1:1. Unsafe sex responds for the vast majority of cases, with 87 percent reporting a
heterosexual pattern.
12.    Pregnancy has become the principal causes of death among females at reproductive age.
According to the ENESP, maternal mortality rate is 162 per 100,000 births - in any event, a decrease
from the 1990 220 per 100,000. Hemorrhages, infectionsand hypertension account for the majority of
those deaths. Unprotected sexual relations place girls at risk not only for unwanted pregnancies but both
girls and boys at risk for STD, including HIV/AIDS (UNFPA, 1999.
Box 2. What clients what from reproductive health services.
Results from several surveys with clients across the world converge in suggesting that clients of
reproductive health want:
> Respect, friendliness, courtesy, confidentiality and privacy.
>   understanding on the part of providers of each client's situation and needs.
>   Comp7ete and accurate       information. Clients want all the facts, particularly about side-
effects of contraceptives.
T Technica7 competence. Clients judge the cleanliness of clinics, the thoroughness of
examinations and the types of medication they are given, and ultimately whether their needs are met
or their problems resolved.
> Access and continuity of care and supp7ies. Clients want convenient, prompt and
reliable services and supplies. Access also means that services are reliable, affordable and without
barriers.
> Fa irness. Clients want providers to offer information and services to everyone regardless of class
or ethnicity.
> Resu 7 ts. Clients are frustrated when they are told to wait or come back on a different day, or when
their complaints are dismissed as unimportant.
Source: UNPA, The State of World Population 1999.
13.        Some Health Issues Among Indigenous Peoples. There are nine different indigenous ethnicities in
Honduras, accounting for about half million individuals. Notwithstanding their importance, there are no
information that allows to differentiate between poverty among indigenous peoples from poverty among non
indigenous peoples as mentioned in both the PRSP and the Inddigenous Peoples Profile. Also, there is very
few information about the specificities of the health issues among indigenous and African descendents in
Honduras. However, as the PRSP indicates, several partial studies point out that ethnicity is an element
4



associated with vulnerability with poverty more incident in departamentos where the number of indigenous
individuals is higher.
14.        Several elements account for the increased risk on their health status faced by indigenous peoples,
including black communities: lack of land security, lack of access to basic services (water, roads, education,
electricity, sanitation, health services) related to the frugal governmental presence in indigenous peoples
localities and environmental degradation.1
15.        Regardless the lack of consistent information, there are indications from partial studies that the
main obstacles faced by the indigenous population in Honduras do not differ from those experienced in other
Latin American countries:
v  Geographical, language and cost barriers derived from historically physical segregation. As
Torres indicates, in Latin America, physical segregation superimposes on the urban/rural
dichotomy, with indigenous and Afro populations located in rural areas where there is also
limited access to services, for example where the Garifuna communities predominate.
/ Different and sometimes conflictive bclief systems, originated from different cosmic visions
on health and diseases.
/  Central role that traditional healers, herbalists and midwives played in the culture and health
system of indigenous peoples but which contrasted with occidental medicine.
16.        The Honduras Indigenous Peoples Profile also indicates that the main ailments faced by the
indigenous population do not differ from those experienced by the very poor except for their depth, particularly
malnutrition and respiratory diseases. Not only lack of access but also lack of culturally adequacy in
addressing these populations account for the depth of their vulnerability. In the cases of the Misquitos and the
Garifunas in the Coast AIDS assumes a higher visibility than among other peoples.
17.        The 2000 social assessment for the Sustainable Tourism Project, based on a survey with sample
size of 427 individuals, carried out for the Honduras Sustainable Tourism Project has stressed not only the
heterogeneity of what is commonly understood as the indigenous population but also the heterogeneity of their
health status. The study was undertaken in the North Coast of Honduras, from Omoa to the municipal
boundary of the Iriona Municipality with the Gracias a Dios department and the island group the Bay Islands.
It has shown:
V The main health problems as considered by those consulted are in order of importance:
respiratory infections, parasitic infections and HIV/AIDS.  Less common are mental
disorders, occupational accidents, malaria and dengue. Malnutrition is considered to be a
minor problem (possible due to traditional patterns that do not consider other alternatives for
nutrition) and even less so alcoholism (0.94 percent) or drug addiction (0.94 percent).
Venereal diseases are practically absent according to the people surveyed.
V Among those surveyed there is a good access to the mass media by television and radio which
potentially can be a source of information on health.
As pointed out by Torres, problems associated with gathering and analyzing and demographic health information
for indigenous groups derive mainly from the lack of clear criteria of identification of the population in a society as
multi-ethnic as the Latin American.
5



V  Only half of those surveyed had participated in the HIV/AIDS campaigns with the other half
remaining at the margin of one of the most critical health problems on the North Coast. (The
massive campaigns consist of talks in primary and secondary schools and the health centers.)
v/ More schooling helps to recognize the rate of the disease. For example, The average person
who recognizes HIV/AIDS as a main health problem has more than 12 years of schooling.
18.    Conclusions. According to scveral sources, including those consulted during the PRSP and the
Indigenous Peoples Prifile, the main problems of the system are:
Elevated rates of child malnutrition. This is not recognized a health issues by indigenous
peoples and African descendants in the Caribbean Region of the country. More
information is needed on whether this is a reality or a belief based on traditional
nutritional habits.
V Elevated child and infantile mortality.
V  Elevated matemal mortality, associated to low sexual and reproductive health and limited
access to health services, particularly in rural areas.
Health problems derived from domestic violence. Between February and July 1998,
1,659 cases of violence against women were formally registered by the Fiscalia Especial
de la Mujer. According to an study by the Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean, about three women are murdered each month by a family member and
five youth are violently beaten.
V Institutional weaknesses to deal with the health sector, particularly conflicting roles
between MOP and NISS and associated costly and low quality services.
/ Lack of attention to rural areas, particularly in the South, Mid-South and Occidental
Regions, partly due to lack of interest from physicians and nurses to work in that area,
partly due to higher costs of transportation and finally partly due to lack of local
resources with whom to work in those areas.
V  Environmental degradation, land and water contamination particularly in urban areas,
leading to high levels of diarrhea and high incidence of dehydrated children and to death.
/ Lack of systemic transparency and clear accountability. All health indicators have
improved during the last decade. But access, particularly in rural areas, is still a
fundamental problem. Quality of all system is another serious question jeopardizing the
delivery of services. There is no system that certifies hospitals and no working ethnic
processes to make the system accountable. During the last ten years, there was a surge in
the supply of private services, without any' major control from the government.
/  Lack of information for planning. There is a lack of reliable information, particularly in
the rural areas. Beneficiaries and users' satisfaction have not been assessed periodically.
Information is lacking regarding access and distribution of medications.
V  Indigenous peoples and African descendents in the Atlantic Coast share the main
obstacles to a better health status faced by non indigenious peoples. However, their
6



frequent geographical segregation deepens their vulnerability to diseases. When access
exists, the lack of culturally appropriated interventions make their impact less significant.
/ AIDS/HIV is extremely significant among indigenous peoples and black communities in
the Atlantic Coast.
19.     Recommendations. The PRSP consultationi processes recommend health as a major sector for
governmental priorities, with the complementary, rather than the overlapping of MOH and NISS. However,
as the health system to date has shown to be costly and ineffective delivering services to the poor,
particularly in rural areas, and in special, to ethnic minorities, it is becomes crucial to generate information
for planning the sustainable actions required. Two sets of information are recommended and are
accordingly financed by the project to be undertaken at the outset of implementation and incorporated into
the monitoring and evaluation system of the project: (a) a beneficiary assessment based on a users ' survey
focusing on issues of access (availability of services, distance, waiting time, etc.) and quality (equipment,
staff, availability of medications, community participation, etc.); and (b) a beneficiary assessment among
indigenous peoples and African descendents with a view to a health strategy that contemplates issues of
access and quality but that also is culturally adequate to their belief system and practices (traditional
medicine and healers, among other elements). In addition, before the approval of sub-projects to be
financed under the project, a specific evaluation of social development issues in each of them will be
carried out, providing information on: (a) key participation issues and definition of the participation
framework; and (b) establishment of mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation.
7



Table 1. Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)
Strategy for Reaching Indigenous Peoples and African Descendents
Scope           The project covers the entire country. Subprojects to be financed as grants under
Component 2: Subprojects are expected to be implemented in some of the poorest
areas. There are eight groups of indigenous peoples and African descendents who
could be potential beneficiaries of these subprojects: Lencas, Tolupanes, Chortis, Pech,
Tawahkas, Misquitos, and Garifunas. The size of these groups is estimated to be about
0.7 million individuals, representing about 15 percent of the Honduran population.
Legal            Articlcs 172, 173 and 346 of the 1982 Constitution recognize the legal existence of
framework       indigenous peoples and the right of each of their communities to live and organize
according to their culture and norms. Article 172 recognizes the anthropological,
archeological, historical and artistic heritage of the country as part of the wealth of the
entire nation. ("Toda la riqueza antropol6gica, arqueol6gica, hist6rica y artistica de
Honduras forma parte del patrimonio cultural de la naci6n). Article 173 establishes as
a duty of the State the protection of the native culture ("El Estado preservara y
estimulara las culturas nativas, asi como las genuinas expresiones del folklore nacional,
artes y las artesanias".) Finally, Article 346 recognizes that indigenous communities
have the right to have their interests protected, including their access to land ("Es deber
del estado dictar medidas de protecci6n de los derechos e intereses de las comunidades
indigenas existentes en el pais, especialmente de las tierras y bosques donde estuvieran
asentadas.") In 1994, the Honduran Government ratified Convention 169 of the
International Labor Office on Indigenous Peoples and Tribal Populations.
Baseline data.   The Indigenous Profiles have been the first source of information to systematically
identify the areas populated by indigenous peoples and African descendent
communities, their social structure, sources of income, social capital, values and
expectations regarding health2. The Profiles are based upon information gathering from
workshops and focus groups undertaken with all ethnic groups, including
representatives of indigenous and African descendent major organizations. In addition,
the 2000 Socio-Ethnographic Survey provides information on the health status of
indigenous and African descendent population living in coastal areas. The survey,
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism, interviewed 427 individuals.
Finally, during project implementation, as part of the M&E system, specific indicators
will be developed to include data for unexpected needs for adaptations of subprojects
and for innovative approaches to delivering health services to these communities.
Land Tenure      The Indigenous Peoples Profile confirms that land tenure is a major issue for
indigenous peoples. The IDA is supporting the Government in addressing land issues
in Honduras through the Coastal Tourism Project.
Consultations    During the last few years, the Government has undertaken three important initiatives in
which indigenous peoples were consulted on health issues. First, the Indigenous
Peoples Profiles (undertaken from 1990 to 2000) organized participatory workshops
and interviews with all major organizations in all ethnic regions and with
representatives of all eight groups. Second, for the Sustainable Coastal Tourism
Project, the Ministry of Tourism has consulted Pechs, Islanders, Misquitos and
Garifunas on their health status through twelve focus groups with community leaders,
small entrepreneurs, and non-governmental organizations. The 2001 PRSP consulted
with ethnic organizations about the major issues related confronting poverty in the
2This follows the example of the Mexico Biological Mesoamerican Biological Corridor where the Profiles have
also been the main baseline source of information for the Indigenous Peoples Strategy Matrix.
8



country, including health. Finally the Department of Indigenous Health at the MOH
works under the Integrated Health Project for Indigenous and Creoles People in
Honduras (2002-2006), which has been developed as a result of a substantive
consultation process between national officials and different indigenous federations.
Needs            The main health problems as considered by indigenous peoples that require priority
Assessment       interventions are, in order of importance, respiratory infections, parasitic infections and
HIV/AIDS. Following and by them considered as less common are mental disorders,
occupational accidents, malaria and dengue. In addition, there is an elevated rates of
child malnutrition, although not fully accounted bv African descendants in the
Caribbean Region of the country. Child mortality and maternal mortality are also high
and associated with low sexual and reproductive health and limited access to health
services. Institutional weaknesses and low quality of services are other recognized
problem, with attention lacking particularly for those living in the South, Mid-South
and Occidental Regions. Finally, environmental degradation, land and water
contamination, particularly for those close to or in urban areas, lead to high levels of
diarrhea and high incidence of dehydrated children and to death. Other studies
conducted about these populations (e.g. Torres 200 13) have also stressed: (a)
geographical, language and cost barriers that are derived from historically physical
segregation. As Torres indicates, physical segregation superimposes on the urban/rural
dichotomy, with indigenous and Afro populations located in rural areas where there is
also limited access to services, for example where the Garifuna communities
predominate; (b) different and sometimes conflictive belief systems, originated from
different cosmic visions on health and diseases; and (c) central role that traditional
healers, herbalists and midwives play in the culture and health system of indigenous
peoples but which contrasted with occidental medicine.
Strategy for     Local participation will be an integral part of the project through, when applicable: (a)
Local            periodic participatory assessments of benefits reaching indigenous and African
Participation    descendents communities; and (b) subprojects that support subcontracting with local
NGOs and thus support local ownership. IDA social specialists will be consulted in the
design and supervision of the M&E system and the implementation of the local
participation on the ground.
Technical        The first component of the project - Technical Assistance for Policy Design and
Identification of  Implementation - will finance technical assistance and studies to support the project's
Development      development objectives. The recent experience with the PRSP, the Indigenous Peoples
and Preservation  Profile, the Socio-Ethnographic Survey, the Social Assessment for the 2001
Activities.      Sustainable Tourism Project, the preparation of the Access to Land Pilot Project, and
the implementation of the 1999 Honduras Interactive Environmental Learning and
Science Promotion Project, have proved to be important sources of capacity building
for the government on culturally appropriate sectoral interventions. In addition, under
the first Component, capacity building will be provided for staff at the central level to
deal with issues specifically related to indigenous peoples' health. Finally, the
following will complement the targeting of indigenous peoples and African
descendent communities:
(a) (To be financed under the Component I) Technical assistance to tabulate data
obtained from community mapping plans in order to provide a snapshot of (i)
the major constraints that each cluster of beneficiaries (children, youth,
mothers, workers, etc.) have to access health services (time, distance, quality,
3Cristina Torres PAHO. Indigenous People Health in Latin America. "Ethnicity and Health: Another Perspective
Towards Equity"
9



lack of cultural communication, etc.): (ii) local resources and local knowledge
on health (traditional medicine, local specialists as midwives, etc.) to be
mobilized by the new institutional arrangements that will be developed during
the implementation of subprojects; and (iii) available services, distance, quality
of personal, time spent (including campaigns) and how useful they are felt to
be by beneficiaries based on results specific interventions targeted towards
these groups will be incorporated into terms of reference used in the second
component. These results should be discussed with indigenous and African
descent organizations as recommended by the civil society strategy of the
PRSP.
(b) (To be used in the Operations Manual - Component 11) Eligibility criteria for
subprojects in areas where indigenous and African descent groups are resident
to ensure that the new proposed institutional framework: (i) is compatible with
existing community-based arrangements; and (ii) properly addresses the main
health issues faced by these populations as mapped.
(c) (To be used in the Operations Manual - Second Component). Subprojects will
cover Departments where residents include indigenous peoples and African
descent communities. Some subprojects will specifically include: (i) targeting
of these population as a condition; (ii) participatory quality control as part of
their financing; (iii) dissemination activities and campaigns designed with
participation of local community groups with whom their efficacy will be
tested; and (iv) where appropriated, dissemination will use local language and
institutions providing health services to indigenous pcoples and African
descendents, when appropriate, will be staffed with professionals able to
communicate inn local languages or translators.
Monitoring and  Participatory assessments financed under the project will provide the elements to
Evaluation      evaluate and adapt, if necessary, how proposed actions are reaching indigenous peoples
and groups of African descendents.
Time line and             I . Technical assistance for data analysis and  I .Budget:
costing                      tabulation of community mapping plans to        US$50,000
evaluate project activities reaching indigenous
people's and groups of African descent
2. Training on capacity building for central level  2. Budget:
staff to deal with different aspects related with  US$50,000
indigenous people's
10



