Report No. 23694
Report No: I053575 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/19/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: HONDURAS        Project ID: P053575
Project: HN- HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROJECT        Task Team Leader: Maria-Luisa
Escobar
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 7, 2001 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 25, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 27.10
Managing Unit: LCSHH     Sector: HC - Primary Health; Including Reproductive
Health; Chi; HO - Hospitals; Secondary & Tertiary; HR - Reform and
Financing
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project will support Honduras' reform program aimed at
extending and improving health care coverage and quality by implementing
its health reform strategy. The project will improve access and quality
of health care services for the low income population served by the
Ministry of Health (MOH). It will also support the ongoing efforts to
improve the performance of the Honduran Social Security Institute (IHSS)
and to ensure that increased social security contributions, as mandated by
the new Social Security Law recently approved by the Honduran Congress,
result in expanded membership and quality of services to the insured
population.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component I. Health Policy Design and Implementation Component (estimated
US$ 8.75 million).
This component would provide financing to develop the strategies,
mechanisms and instruments required to achieve the objectives set forth in
the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) in the areas of regulation and
institutional development, resource allocation and financial
sustainability, and health service delivery. The component would finance
local and foreign technical assistance, information systems, training and
training materials in health policy, and study tours. The component would
be executed under the close supervision of the IDA in order to assist the
GOH in the enforcement of high quality standards in the execution of
technical assistance contracts. It is urgent to improve health service
delivery in both the IHSS and the MOH. This component includes monitoring
and evaluation. It will support health facility surveys and project
reporting. In addition, the project is supporting innovative health
delivery models, which will be evaluated so the government can build on
and fine tune the results. This component also includes approximately
$0.75 million in assistance to strengthen HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance
systems and improve HIV/AIDS screening in blood banks.



Component II. Health Delivery and Management Subproject Component
(estimated US$ 19.25 million).
The primary aim of this component would be to establish a financing
vehicle, which would provide a clear linkage between the policy objectives
identified in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) and implementation of
investments and innovative management changes executed through subprojects
aimed at extending coverage for IHSS and MOH and improving quality and
efficiency in the sector. The evaluation of the PAS would be carried out
through three policy Program Reviews.
The subprojects would support improvements in service quality, access and
coverage, and management improvements. All three phases would include
some subprojects that specifically that supported maternal and child
health improvements and HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Included in
HIV/AIDS prevention and care would be efforts to improve the management
and treatment of STIs in the MOH and IHSS, efforts to improve voluntary
HIV/AIDS testing in MOH, IHSS, and private facilities, efforts to reduce
mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS.
The subprojects could finance: (1) the development of contracting schemes
for hospital support services and/or primary health care where health
service quality is poor or access is limited, as well as contracts with
NGOs to reach high-risk groups with HIV/AIDS prevention and care, (2)
rehabilitation of health centers, laboratory and hospital infrastructure,
(3) medical and laboratory equipment and spare parts, (5) furniture, (6)
technical assistance, (7) training, and (8) training materials.
Component III. Project Management Component (Est. US$3 million)
This component will focus on Project Administration. The component will
finance computing and office equipment and furniture, vehicles for
supervision, technical assistance of four long-term technical consultants,
and two specialized advisors (one each for MOH and IHSS) in the PIU,
training, technical assistance for the strengthening of the PIU
operational capacity, carry out of assessments for the evaluation of the
project in indigenous populations, project audits, transportation and per
diem of trainers and trainees, printing services of materials, media
releases, and incremental operational costs to support the operation of
the technical unit in the PIU. The GOH has agreed to finance the cost of
the Administrative-Financial Management agency (AFA) that is proposed to
assume the responsibility for the operation of the
financial-administrative area of the PIU.
Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will take place in all the national territory. According to
the recent report "Honduras: Toward Better Health Care for All", for the
poorest 20% of the population the MOH is the most important source of
primary care (68 percent of care), followed by private facilities (22
percent), and IHSS (2 percent). As income increases, MOH as a source of
care is replaced, first and foremost, by private facilities, followed by
IHSS. The top income quintile received 70 percent of primary care from
private facilities, followed by the MOH (18 percent), and IHSS (12
percent). The project's investments in the MOH, targeted particularly at
-2 -



underserved areas and at maternal-child care, would improve access to
services and the quality of care that poor households receive. As poor
households in Honduras include indigenous groups, indigenous groups would
also benefit. The project will have built-in mechanisms to help ensure
that services address key barriers to access that these groups, in
particular, face. The investments in IHSS and increase in IHSS coverage
will primarily benefit social security insured population, but they will
indirectly benefit in an important manner the MOH-served population.
This is because significant numbers of the IHSS-insured population seek
care from the MOH because of lack of IHSS facilities or poor quality
services. Improvements in IHSS coverage and quality will help alleviate
congestion in MOH facilities and free up resources for the poorer,
non-insured population.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed
project
A health care waste management assessment was carried out as part of
project preparation. The assessment found that, by and large, legislation
relevant to health care waste management (The Health Code, The General
Regulation on Environmental Health, The General Environmental Law) is
adequate in Honduras, but, as in most countries, there is inadequate
management of medical waste. In particular, there is a problem with
mixing hazardous waste with non-hazardous waste for collection instead of
maintaining separate waste streams.
-3-



II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
a) A strategy for reaching indigenous peoples and African descendents has
been developed (PAD-Annex 2.C)
b) Detailed description of the Hospital Waste Management in Honduras is
included in the PAD as Annex 2.D.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Following the recommendations in Annex 2D, the project will: (1) finance
an update of the 1995 study on management waste disposal; (2) in its
efforts to develop and implement licensing of health facilities, include,
as appropriate, the need to follow regulations regarding waste management;
(3) following the priorities identified in the updated waste management
study mentioned above, finance selected investments in waste management
training, equipment, and infrastructure under Component 2; and (4)
following the priorities identified in the updated study, include adequate
waste disposal specifications in contracting out (for example, with
sanitation companies) if such contracts are financed under Component 2.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Health reform in Honduras has been an ongoing process for more than a
decade. It has been accompanied by a variety of consultation mechanisms,
including the PRSP, with key social actors. The PRSP consultations took
place in the main regions of the country, involving 2,500 people directly,
including local organizations, NGOs and community groups and included
discussions on health. The project design benefited from this consultation
process. The project's design also benefited from the Honduras Indigenous
Peoples Profile which recommends innovative actions to effectively reach
indigenous peoples with health care coverage.    The project design also
draws on the recently completed report Honduras: Toward Better Health
Care for All.   The MOH has prepared its strategy and action plan for
improving the health of indigenous peoples in Honduras, following
consultation between national officials and the autochthonous communities
represented by the different indigenous federations. This strategy and
action plan is presented in the Integrated Health Project for Indigenous
and Creoles People in Honduras (2002-2006). Subprojects in Component II
that expand coverage of services for Indigenous Peoples will follow
recommendations in this strategy.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[   Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
- 4 -



significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      9/6/2001        Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/1/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop   2/1/2002        Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      9/6/2001        Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Maria-Luisa Escobar     March 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         02/01/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Ana-Maria Arriagada      02/01/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



