Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23900-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.8 MILLION (US$27.1 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROJECT
March 22, 2002
Central America Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 2002)
Currency Unit = Lempiras
US$1 = 16.1 Lempiras
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EMA             Social Security Health Fund
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
FM              Financial Management
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOH             Government of Honduras
ICB             International Competitive Bidding Procedures
IDB/IADB        Inter-American Development Bank
IDA             International Development Association
IEC             Infornation, Education, and Comrnunication
IHSS            Honduran Social Security Institute
IMCI            Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IPDP            Indigenous People Development Plan
IRC             Inter-institutional Reform Committee
IVM             Social Security Pension Fund
MA              Management Agent
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOH             Ministry of Health
MOL             Ministry of Labor
MOP             Ministry of the Presidency
NCB             National Competitive Bidding Procedures
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
OM              Operations Manual
PAC             Procurement Plan
PAHO            Pan-American Health Organization
PAS             Policy Activity Schedule
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
FMR             Financial Management Report
PPCAR           Project procurement Capacity Assessment
PRSP            Honduran Poverty Reduction Strategy
PSR             Project Status Report
RPA             Regional Procurement Advisor
SA              Special Account
SIGAF           Integrated Financial Management System
SIL             Sector Investment Loan
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
STI             Sexually-transmitted Infection
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
PIU             Technical Unit in the Project
WB              World Bank
WHO             World Health Organization
WDI             World Development Indicators
Vice President          David de Ferranti
Country Director        Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director         Ana Maria Arriagada
Sector Manager          Charles Griffin
Sector Leader           Helena Ribe
Teamn Leaders           Maria-Luisa Escobar, Helen Saxenian



Honduras Health System Reform Project
Contents
A. Project Development Objective .......................... .........................        2
1. Project development objective.                                                            2
2. Key performance indicators                                                                2
B. Strategic Context.                                                                        3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project            3
2. Main sector issues and government strategy.                                               4
3. Strategic sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.             7
C. Project Description Summary.                                                              9
1. Project components                             .9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .13
3. Benefits and target population .14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .15
D. Project Rationale .18
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies            19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design.                                19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .20
5. Value added of IDA support in this project .21
E. Summary Project Analysis .21
1. Economic .21
2. Financial .22
3. Technical .23
4. Institutional.                                                                           23
5. Environmental assessment .24
6. Social .25
7. Safeguard Policies .27
F. Sustainability and Risks .27
1. Sustainability.                                                                          27
2. Critical risks .28
3. Possible controversial aspects .28
G. Main Credit Conditions .29
1. Negotiations conditions .29
2. Effectiveness conditions .29
3. Disbursement conditions .29
4. Other .29
H. Readiness for Implementation .29
1. Compliance with IDA Policies .30



Annexes
Annex 1:      Project Design Summary ........................................................            31
Attachment 1: Letter of Sector Policy ........................................................  36
Annex 2:      Detailed Project Description ........................................................      39
Annex 2-A: Policy Activity Schedules (IHSS and MOH) .........................     ............................... 44
Annex 2A.bis Disbursement Conditions ........................................................            50
Annex 2-B: Technical Assistance Plan ........................................................            52
Annex 2-C: Social Assessment and Health Issues Among Indigenous Peoples ........................................ 56
Annex 2-D: Hospital Waste Management in Honduras ........................................................  61
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .71
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .72
Annex 5: Financial Summary .78
Annex 6:      Procurement, Financial, and Disbursement Arangements .79
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule .97
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .99
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .100
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .102
M ap. N o.    ............................................................................................................................................. 104



Honduras
Health System Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Central America Country Management Unit (LCC2C)
Human Development Sector Management Unit (LCSHD)
Date: March 22, 2002                          Team Leaders: Maria-Luisa Escobar and Helen
Saxenian
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-      Sector Manager/Director:
Coirolo
Project ID: P053575                           Sector(s): HR Reform and Financing, HC - Basic Health,
HA HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan    [Xp Credit   [ Grant      [ j Guarantee     I I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 27.1
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                   1.7            2.2           3.9
IDA                                                       12.5           14.6          27.1
Total:                                                    14.2           16.8          31.0
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Responsible agencies:
Ministry of Health
Address: Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. Honduras, C.A.
Contact Person: Eias Lizardo, Health Minister
Tel: 504-222-8520          Fax: 504-238-4141          Email:
Honduran Social Security Institute (IHSS)
Address: Apartado 555, Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. Honduras, C.A.
Contact Person: Richard Zablah, Director
Tel: 504-237-1193          Fax: 504-237-8032          Email:
Estimated disbursements (IDA FYlUS$m):
FY        2002      2003       2004      2005       2006      2007
Annual     4.5         6.5       7.5        5.0       3.0       0.6
Cumulative     4.5       11.0       18.5      23.5      26.5       27.1
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: July 2002  Expected closing date: July 31,2007



2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Proiect development obiective (see Annex 1)
The proposed project will support Honduras' reform program aimed at extending and improving health
care coverage and quality by implementing its health reform strategy. The project will improve access
and quality of health care services for the low income population served by the Ministry of Health
(MOH). It will also support the ongoing efforts to improve the performance of the Honduran Social
Security Institute (IHSS) and to ensure that increased social security contributions, as mandated by the
Law amending the 1959 Social Security Law recently approved by the Honduran Congress, result in
expanded membership and quality of services to the insured population.
The project will provide assistance to strengthen the MOH health services regulatory capacity related to
health care services, to improve the allocation and management of MOH resources, to develop sustainable
financing mechanisms for the IHSS, to modernize IHSS organization and administration, and to finance
subprojects to implement rapid quality improvements and innovative approaches in health service
financing, management, and delivery. While the project supports system-wide reforms, particular
attention will be given in the subprojects to strengthening maternal-child health services and HIV/AIDS
prevention and care, and problems concentrated among the poorest segments of the population.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards project objectives will be measured through a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system. The M&E system will build on established information systems and will introduce new
indicators from health facility surveys. The evaluation system will collect and compare data at the
beginning of the project (baseline), during, and after project implementation. Attention will be paid to
geographic and population subgroup differences in indicators where health outcomes, coverage, and
quality of services varies considerably by rural/urban, region, and by ethnic subgroups. The evaluation
system will provide the basis for Bank evaluations of compliance with the Policy Activity Schedule
(PAS) (See Annex 2.A).
The M&E system will permit measurement of three types of indicators: (a) input indicators associated
with investments, (b) process indicators associated with completion of key project activities, and (c)
outcome and/or impact indicators aimed at measuring the project's results in relation to objectives. The
project's key performance indicators are selected from process and outcome indicators and include the
following:
Process indicators:
*  Sector integration as measured by increased number of contracts between the public, private, and
social security sub-sectors.
*  MOH establishment of quality standards for health care provision of a basic primary health care
package of services.
*  Establishment of a regulatory framework for licensing health centers and, subsequently, the
percent of health care centers licensed (both public and private).
* Piloting of modernized MOH and IHSS hospital management schemes.
* Payment of government arrears to IHSS and continued implementation of new contribution rates.
*  Redesign of IHSS health care benefits in line with the financial capacity of the system.
*  Design and implementation of new budgetary procedures in MOH.



3
Outcome and/or impact indicators:
*  Expansion of IHSS health care coverage, as measured by numbers of direct insured.
*  Percent of children under five with access to a health facility able to provide integrated
management of childhood illness (standard UNICEF/WHO indicator, determined by facility
surveys).
*  Percent of deliveries with skilled attendance.
*  Percent of sick children correctly assessed and treated in health facility (standard UNICEF/WHO
indicator.
*  Satisfaction of mothers with care provided to sick children (exit interviews).
*  Incidence of HIV/AIDS (goal is to reduce growth in incidence).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Stratefv (CAS) eoals suDported by the proiect (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19893 HO        Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/14/99
The IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Honduras focuses on developing an outcome-oriented
poverty reduction strategy, with a strong emphasis on improving human capital. The CAS supports three
key development areas: (i) Poverty Reduction to promote social development and sustainable economic
growth; (ii) Revival of Growth to ensure a swift economic recovery and establishment of a framework
for long-term, higher productivity and growth; and (iii) Sustainability to guarantee that the actions
proposed in the Government's development strategy are sustainable over the long-term.
The proposed project would directly support the CAS strategy by financing investments in policies
directly related to poverty reduction, growth and human capital investment and financial sustainability of
IHSS. In the social sectors, health is key in promoting social development and alleviating poverty. The
proposed project would make important contributions to health status through improvements in services
for the poor served by the MOH, extension of social security coverage of poorer groups, and improved
quality of health care through the Social Security system. The project will help ensure financial
sustainability and strengthen institutional capacity of IHSS, the development of alternative contracting
arrangements to extend coverage of the IHSS, and the implementation of management changes to
improve the efficiency and quality of hospital services in both the IHSS and the MOH. The new
contribution levels for IHSS will increase per capita spending for the Institute from US$20 per annum to
nearly US$55 per annum over 5 years. This project will help ensure that these funds are well spent.
The project follows the IDA's overall HNP strategy by supporting reforms that separate the functions of
financing purchase and provision of health services, addressing the needs of poor and under-served
populations, committing to institutional development and health system strengthening.
The Honduran Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP) proposes to strengthen the regulatory role of the
Central Government as well as municipal and local governments by actively involving communities,
NGOs and the private sector in the poverty reduction process. As planned in the PRSP, the proposed
Health System Reform Project, through the actions in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) will: (i)
reinforce the regulatory capacity of the MOH, with special attention to the development of quality
standards for the provision of health care services; (ii) develop new financially sustainable mechanisms to
improve IHSS' financial situation; (iii) promote coordination of the private and public sectors for the
planning and provision of quality health care services; and (iv) institutionalize and improve health sector
information by implementing a comprehensive management and financial information system in the
IHSS.



4
This project is consistent with IDA's interest in strengthening its partnership with clients. The credit
specifically supports and acknowledges country efforts to develop a reform agenda for the IHSS in
conjunction with the health activities of the MOH and strong participation of other government
institutions represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Labor (MOL), the Ministry of
Presidency, the private sector, and Congress during the past 24 months.
2. Main sector issues and government strateev
Sectoral Background
Although there have been improvements in the past decade, Honduras still faces major challenges in the
health sector. Health indicators lag behind those of almost all countries in the region. Between 1990 and
1997, the maternal mortality ratio declined by 38% to 108 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births, in
large part due to government efforts to expand medical facilities around the country including the
construction of health posts and centers (CESAMOS and CESARES). While this is a remarkable
achievement for a country as poor as Honduras, maternal mortality is still high, and continued declines
will require further investments in the health care system to increase the effectiveness of the referral
system and the quality of care of obstetric emergencies.
Preliminary data from the 2001 Family Health Survey are cause for concern, suggesting that infant
mortality has not declined since the last survey in 1996,. remaining at about 36/1000 with more than half
the infant deaths occurring in the first month of life. Immunization coverage of children under one year
of age is another success story, with measles coverage at 99% and DPT-3 at 96% in 2000. But challenges
persist, making this a qualified success story: newer vaccines with great potential to reduce childhood
disease and death will necessitate greater resources and an improved health system capable of delivering
them. The under-five mortality rate is estimated at 48/1000. Inequity is a grave issue with significant
variation in these indicators across regions. HIV/AIDS is a growing problem; AIDS is the third most
common cause of death in IHSS hospitals now and the most common cause of death among women of
reproductive age. At about 2 percent adult prevalence rates, Honduras has the highest HIV/AIDS
prevalence rate in Central America. Sentinal studies show that the problem is particularly severe in the
following high risk groups: commercial sex workers (prevalence 9.9 percent), Garifunas (8.4 percent),
men having sex with men (8.0 percent), and prisoners (6.8 percent).
Honduras' health care system is fragmented. There is poor coordination between the public, private and
social security sub-sectors, resulting in critical inefliciencies and bottlenecks. The regulatory framework
is weak: there is no mechanism in place for either the certification or the accreditation of health care
facilities and providers. The institutional capacity to implement and enforce regulations is almost non-
existent. This has important implications on quality of care and patient's.rights.
Allocation of public resources is a centralized process which does not enforce accountability for results
and is weakly linked to outcomes. The Honduran health care system is oriented primarily towards
curative care. According to National Health Accounts, ambulatory care used 12% of all public resources
for health in 1998, inpatient care used 45%, and administrative costs were 12% of total expenditures.
Expenditures for preventive care were only 5% of total public health expenditures. A large portion of
MOH expenditures (63%) is allocated to hospital care, while only 21% is dedicated to primary health
care.
IHSS financial sustainability has been weak and more generally the health sector is heavily dependent on
international aid. Honduras has one of the most centralized public budgets in the region. Its financial
system, at the level of government and within the line ministries, lacks transparency, accountability and
adequate controls. The GOH is trying to modernize its financial system in order to improve budget



5
allocation and execution at all levels. The "Modernization of the State" process has supported many of
these activities and the MOH is one of the pilots. Through recent initiatives, the MOH has made
considerable progress to address these issues, but continued support is required to improve accountability
at local levels, to shift from historical to program budgeting, and to create appropriate incentives for
providers to improve efficiency by linking resources transferred to results and outcomes. These are basic
premises for successful budget decentralization in the future. According to the National Health Accounts
exercise, 32 percent of health expenditures in the public sector come from international aid, underscoring
the need to develop sustainable financing mechanisms and to avoid duplicity among programs.
The MOH has started an effort to improve and streamline administrative procedures through the
implementation of the "Sistema de Informacion Gerencial Adminsitrativo y Financiero", SIGAF.
Despite some achievements in developing local capacity and deconcentrating the planning and execution
of the health budget through the SIGAF and SIAFI systems, extreme centralization of planning and
execution of the public health care budget still characterizes the public health care sector. The MOH
plans and decides the budget for all health regions, hospitals and centers, undermining local efforts to
increase efficiency and develop managerial skills and accountability. Centralized decisions impede
prompt distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. A rational structure of human resources
responding to local needs is absent. Infrastructure deficiencies due to lack of maintenance and
accountability are widespread. Many hospitals are in need of infrastructure investments. Maintenance
resources are paltry and facilities are deteriorating at a rapid pace. Public hospitals have low occupancy
rates and long lengths of stay. The MOH needs to revamp most of its administrative and managerial
procedures to increase accountability, efficiency and diminish the waste of resources.
At the macro level, the limited coverage of social security, roughly 15 percent of the population, reduces
the size of the risk pool and limits overall financing efficiency. There is a significant and increasing
deficit in all areas of the IHSS. Social security contributions are based on 7.5 percent of payroll, among
the lowest in Latin America. Until recently, the ceiling on contributions eroded IHSS revenues in real
terms. While the Law amending the 1959 Social Security Law recently approved an increase in the
contribution ceiling from 600 to 2,400 Lempiras in 2001, with limited increases through 2003, years of
deficits, rapidly rising expenditures, and efforts to increase coverage of formal sector workers currently
uninsured will place additional pressure on the IHSS financial equilibrium. Until the passage of the Law
amending the 1959 Social Security Law, equity of social security financing was limited by both the low
contribution ceiling that shifted a large percentage of the financing burden to lower income members and
the limited access that low income workers have to services (lower income IHSS affiliates reside
disproportionately in areas where there is no health care coverage). The budget cuts that have been
required over the past several years have forced the IHSS to eliminate nearly all variable costs, including
inter alia drugs, supplies, and maintenance, as well as all investment. This has further reduced the service
level and quality of care provided at IHSS facilities. IHSS is in a vicious cycle in which poor
performance has led the private sector to resist increases in the payroll tax; in turn, the reduced funding
has exacerbated the financial crisis and prevents the IHSS from making the service improvements that are
required to justify higher contributions. Some employers have created their own health care service
facilities and/or contracted services for their employees ("medicina de empresa"); smaller businesses and
lower income employees that can not afford such an option have ended up in the already crowded and
inefficient establishments of the MOH.
Over the years, the revenue shortfalls in IHSS have been partially subsidized by pension funds, and weak
accounting controls have allowed leakage from pensions to health. The organizational and operational
structure of IHSS needs to be revamped to allow for an efficient separation between pensions and health:
both in financial and accounting terms the two risks are currently managed together. Moreover, the
institution needs to revise its administrative and managerial procedures to develop modern and efficient



6
managerial skills. Lack of comprehensive, or even partial, information systems is an important problem,
which was worsened by the loss of data on beneficiaries in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. Without
access to a comprehensive infornation system, IHSS cannot be managed efficiently and will therefore
have difficulty in trying to offer better and more cost-effective services.
The Honduran health sector also faces important labor market challenges. Difficult negotiations with
health sector labor unions demand continuous attention on the part of sector officials. The sector is
burdened by a special statute that entitles physicians to frequent salary increases and shorter work
schedules. Other health care specialists seek Government approval of similar preferential treatment.
Frequent labor strikes combined with problems of geographical maldistribution leave the poor and
uninsured badly served. A comprehensive census of health care workers needs to be updated, and
information needs to be stored in modern information systems in order to facilitate human resource
planning at the national and local levels. Human resource policies regarding compensation, work
schedules, hiring procedures, and geographic allocation of staff need to be modernized. Formally
recognized programs for continuing education and procedures for certification of professionals need to be
developed and implemented. In total, more than $4 million are lost each year due to high levels of
absenteeism and multiple employment.
Recognizing these challenges, the Honduran Government and the IHSS Board of Directors have been
working over the past two years on the development of a reform agenda. Strong consensus building
efforts under the MOL's leadership have characterized this process (IHSS is the responsibility of the
MOL), and negotiations with labor unions, the medical community and the private sector have been
frequent. The MOF has supported the process of defining a reform agenda and has contributed to the
implementation of first steps to alleviate the financial crisis in the IHSS by paying part of the
Government's accumulated debt to IHSS. The MOF has supported efforts to decentralize the allocation
and execution of the public health budget and activities in the MOH (with its SL4FI program). The
Goveniment recently took the important step of approving the Law amending the 1959 Social Security
Law. This law increases social security contribution rates from previously capped, very low levels to a
level that should permit IHSS to make significant improvements in coverage and quality of care. The
Law also expands coverage of beneficiaries (spouses and children). Now that the Social Security Law is
passed, the Honduran Government is eager to fully implement it and other reforms in MOH and IHSS. It
has sought IDA's assistance to support this effort through the design, financing and implementation of the
proposed project.
Government's Strategy and Sector Goals
Honduras' development challenge is to rebuild its economy with greater social equity. The performance
of the health sector is instrumental to achieving this goal. In the context of the health sector, the
government's goals are to: (i) improve general living conditions and the population's health status; (ii)
eradicate vaccine-preventable diseases; (iii) reduce social differences and inequalities; and (iv) diminish
the impact of adverse living conditions and negative lifestyles on the quality of life and health.
The government health strategy proposes specific actions to achieve these objectives and to improve the
health and welfare of the population. The widespread repercussions of Hurricane Mitch throughout the
country including the destruction of physical infrastructure devoted to public services like education and
health have increased the sense of urgency to implement structural changes in the health system and have
thus provided an opportunity to carry out health sector reform. The Government of Honduras has
established a reform program with the IDA and other partners (USAID, PAHO/WHO, IDB) to secure
essential resources. This program is based on a comprehensive health sector strategy aimed at obtaining
better health outcomes for each dollar invested in the system. The proposed Health System Reform



7
Project would support the implementation of the agreed strategy, in close coordination with the Ministries
of Health, Finance, Labor, and the Presidency. The GOH health sector reform strategy is based on seven
pillars aimed at:
1. Improving the regulatory, policy making and budgeting capacity of the MOH to carry out the
basic functions related to quality assurance, regulation and resource allocation;
2. Strengthening public sector institutions such as the Ministry of Health and the Honduran Institute
of Social Security to lead the implementation of new models for comprehensive health care;
3. Strengthening the IHSS financially and organizationally to develop a new institution to be able to
accomplish its social objectives;
4. Restructuring the provider network of public, private and NGOs in order to reduce duplication,
increase utilization of existing assets, and develop innovative systems to deliver and manage
health care services;
5. Strengthening the key management information systems in the sector;
6. Strengthening the primary health care strategy to focus resources on the population's health needs
through education and health promotion in programs such as "mother and child health care in the
community";
7. Developing a comprehensive policy on pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
The proposed project focuses on key reforms needed in pillars one through five. Other donors are
providing complementary and mutually reinforcing assistance on selected actions in the first five pillars
and on pillars six and seven.  The project reforms are consistent with the IDA's overall strategy for
Honduras as reflected in the CAS.
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the pro*ect and strategic choices
This project is being designed as an integral part of a sector reform process which is coherent with other
activities promoted by other agencies and donors. The project has been designed in accordance with the
IMF program, within which the IHSS reform is critical. Activities are being designed taking into account
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP) and the HIPC. This operation is designed to be
complementary to an IDB loan to the health sector that concentrates on institutional strengthening of the
MOH, extension of MOH coverage to poor rural areas, and hospital infrastructure and equipment, as well
as to the support provided by PAHO and USAID. The project addresses the following sector issues:
Regulation, Institutional Development and Modernization. The project will support the development
of minimum quality assurance and accreditation standards for health care providers, and strengthen the
regulatory role of the Ministry of Health. To this end, the project will require that MOH develop
appropriate regulations in these areas and strengthen institutional capacity to enforce them. At the same
time, the project will support efforts to integrate waste management standards, already provided for in
existing legislation, into the licensing and accreditation processes underway in the MOH. The project will
work with the IHSS to develop regulations in the context of purchasing health care services from a third
party (public, private, NGOs). Govemment strategy aims to develop such capacity and to implement the
most important pieces of regulation in the next five years. This project, complementing other agencies
efforts in supporting the development of a regulatory framework, will implement the most important
pieces of regulation to ensure health care quality provision in both the public and private sub sectors.
The project will improve screening of HIV/AIDS in national blood banks.
The project will develop new organizational arrangements to improve the operational efficiency and focus
of the IHSS. It will focus activities on separating the pensions, health and workers compensation
insurance schemes, developing a system of performance indicators for central management, developing



8
information systems to support financial management and operations and strengthening the purchasing
function of the IHSS to obtain greater value-for-money through contracting.
Resource Allocation and Financial Sustainability. With the recent changes in the Social Security Law,
total health care spending could reach 9 percent of GDP by 2005, thereby placing Honduras at the very
upper limit of what low-income countries typically spend as a share of GDP on health (9 percent is indeed
higher than what many industrialized countries spend). The value-for-money obtained with the 7.5
percent of GDP devoted to health currently is clearly limited as indicated by the outcomes achieved in the
sector and the low coverage rates. There are also problems with technical efficiency related to human
resource management and payroll, management and a lack of information. Much of the excessive
spending is caused by the segmented and poorly functioning public systems (MOH and IHSS). The
project will help ensure that increases in health spending deliver value-for-money.
The project will develop the following actions aimed at improving the financial sustainability of the
IHSS: assess and reduce the government debt to the IHSS for unpaid contributions, support the
implementation of new contribution rates and ceilings to increase IHSS revenues, redesign IHSS benefits
in line with the financial capacity of the system, and increase the contribution base of the IHSS by
increasing the number of insured IHSS members from 376,000 to at least 600,000 direct insured over five
years. These efforts will also support improvements in financing efficiency and equity. Extending the
insurance base to a larger share of the population will lead to improvements in risk spreading among the
population, liberate resources for the uninsured population covered by MOH that will be incorporated into
IHSS, improve equity in IHSS financing by reducing the contribution burden on the low income through
increases in the contribution ceiling. Management improvements and investment in information systems
will also lead to increased technical efficiency and productivity at the provider level.
The project will support ongoing work in the MOH to improve the financial and budgeting systems,
including the further development of automated administrative procedures, performance-based budgeting,
and improvements in the MOH financial management systems. The process aims to put the MOH
budgeting system in accordance with the requirements of the modernization of the national public
budgeting system guided by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) through the Modernization of the State
efforts.
Health Service Delivery, Quality and Efficiency.
a)    Extend coverage and improve the efficiency and quality of health care services delivered by
public and private providers. This project will support the design and implementation of innovative
management and health service delivery schemes in both the IHSS and the MOH facilities. Actions
will include: the strengthening of public hospital providers by developing greater management
capacity, implementing alternative management systems, promoting the contracting of providers,
including non-governmental organizations (NGOs), for health service delivery, including integrated
packages of care, as well as more narrowly defined activities, such as liV/AIDS prevention and care
for high-risk groups, and for non-medical support services such as cleaning, security and laundry. It
will also support the development of a comprehensive total quality improvement programs in MOH
and IHSS facilities and work to increase the management autonomy, accountability, efficiency and
quality of services in public hospitals and ambulatory centers.
b)     Greaterfocus on priority health care services and using demonstration projects to show results.
The provision of a basic health benefits package, with an emphasis on maternal and child care, will
expand IHSS coverage; contracts for its provision will be supported through the project primarily in
the geographical areas where public provision of services for IHSS beneficiaries already exists and/or



9
there is great potential for IHSS coverage extension. Contracts with private health service providers
will be specifically designed for those areas as part of the innovative subprojects to be presented to
the IDA as part of the investment plans. The provision of a package of services will be enforced and
monitored by the indicators that support the contracts for its provision. The Monitoring and
Evaluation system will assess the outcomes of innovations in contracting, beneficiary enrollment and
delivery of health care benefits. Supervision and evaluation of contractual arrangements is key for its
demonstration effect and future expansion of a health care benefit package. As an urgent measure to
improve maternal health and emergency obstetric care, and part of the demonstration projects
identified during project preparation, the project will first support the modernization of the "Hospital
de Especialidades del IHSS" (formerly called "Hospital Materno"), for which a detailed plan has
already been designed. Most of this hospital's activities are in obstetrics. In the medium term, at least
four public hospitals which either currently provide services to the IHSS or are located in areas with
potential IHSS beneficiaries, will participate on the implementation of innovative experiences which
will include a management improvement plan and the development of the capacity to manage
contracts for the provision of health services to the IHSS.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Proiect components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Component I. Health Policy Design and Implenenteition Component (estimated US$ 8.75 million).
This component would provide financing to develop the strategies, programs, and systems required to
achieve the objectives set forth in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) (Annex 2.A) in the areas of
regulation and institutional development, resource allocation and financial sustainability, and health
service delivery. The component would finance local and foreign technical assistance, information
systems, equipment and supplies, training and training materials, and study tours. The component would
be executed under the close supervision of the IDA in order to assist the GOH in the enforcement of high
quality standards in the execution of technical assistance contracts. This component includes monitoring
and evaluation. The project is supporting innovative health delivery models, which will be evaluated so
the government can build on and fine tune the results. It will support health facility surveys and project
reporting. Monitoring and evaluation will also include assessing the impact of project activities on
indigenous populations, where relevant. In addition, this component will support an update of the 1995
health care waste management study in Honduras. The component also includes approximately $0.75
million in assistance to strengthen HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance systems and improve HIV/AIDS screening
in blood banks. The technical assistance plan is in Annex 2.B.
Component II. Health Delivery and Management Subproject Component (estimated US$ 19.25
million).
The primary aim of this component would be to establish a financing vehicle, which would provide a
clear linkage between the policy objectives identified in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) and
implementation of investments and innovative management changes executed through subprojects aimed
at extending coverage for IHSS and MOH and improving quality and efficiency in the sector. The
evaluation of the PAS would be carried out through three policy Program Reviews, the first review prior
to Effectiveness with two more scheduled approximately every 18 months. The focus of these reviews
will be to monitor progress and assess compliance with policy changes identified in the PAS (Annex 2)
and the conditions of effectiveness and disbursements (Annex 2A.bis). None of the policy actions which
are part of the disbursement conditions require passage of legislation.



10
Prior to each PAS review, IDA would have approved a set of subprojects submitted by the GOH. The
subprojects will then be compiled into a Multi-Year Investment Plan, accompanied by a detailed
procurement plan (PAC) satisfactory to IDA. The IHSS and MOH subprojects would be financed
following satisfactory results in meeting disbursement conditions.  Details on procurement and
disbursements procedures related to entitlement of credit financing for subprojects is shown in Annex 6.
The subprojects would support improvements in service quality, access and coverage, and management
improvements. All three phases would include some subprojects that specifically will support matemal
and child health improvements and HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Included in HIV/A1DS prevention
and care would be efforts to improve the management and treatment of STIs in the MOH and IHSS,
efforts to improve voluntary HIV/AIDS testing in MOH, IHSS, and private facilities, and efforts to
reduce mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS. Given the urgency of the HIV/AIDs epidemic,
approximately $4.25 million of the $19.25 million in this component is expected to go towards
HIV/AIDS. Boehringer-Ingleheim is providing its antiretroviral drug Nevirapine in the form of a
donation to developing countries for the purposes of reducing mother-to-child transmission. UNAIDS is
working with Honduras so that the country will be part of the donation program. The subprojects for any
of the three project phases could finance: (1) the development of contracting schemes for health and
support services, (2) rehabilitation of health centers, laboratory and hospital infrastructure, (3) medical
and laboratory equipment, spare parts, pharmaceuticals, and supplies, (4) furniture, (5) technical
assistance, (6) training, and (7) training materials. Pharmaceuticals will be a relatively small share of this
component: no more than $1 million of the $19.25 million. Contracts for health care and support
services could be made with private providers, including NGOs. Depending upon the needs, contracts
could be for providing an integrated package of basic services, or for more narrowly defined activities,
such as maternal/child health services or HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities to defined population
groups.  Contracts with private health service providers could also be made for non-medical support
services such as hospital laundry, security, and cleaning services.
Given the pressing need to demonstrate improvements in health services following the increase in social
security contributions, Phase I ($5.5) million would emphasize rapid improvements to meet the most
-pressing needs in services. Phase I subprojects would be approved by the IDA prior to effectiveness. For
Phase I, the indicative allocation would be US$3.75 million for urgent improvements in IHSS services,
and US$1.75 million for similar improvements in MOH services. The indicative allocations in Phase II
($10.0 million total) are US$3.5 million for IHSS and US$6.5 million for MOH, and in Phase m ($3.75
million total) are US$1.65 million for IHSS and US$2.1 million for MOH. Phase II and III Subprojects
would be selected following criteria set out in the Operational Manual. The criteria take into account the
link with project objectives and specific innovative delivery mechanisms such as contracting out of NGOs
to provide HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and contracting out of integrated management of childhood
illness and essential obstetric care. During project implementation the GOH will have the possibility to
adjust criteria for subprojects following agreement with the IDA.
Oversight of subprojects selection process would be the responsibility of an Inter-Institutional Reform
Committee (IRC) established as a governance mechanism in the Project (see Institutional Arrangements).
Prior to the second and third program reviews, it is intended that the government would carry out a
selection process to determine which subprojects best meet the established criteria related to the link with
project objectives. Phase II and III subprojects (Phase I will not follow this procedure as Phase I
subprojects would have already been agreed prior to effectiveness) would be ranked and financed up to
the resource limit available for the respective program review, that is US$10.0 million and US$3.75
million, respectively. The financing of the subprojects would remain linked to the compliance with the
disbursement conditions as part of the overall program review.



11
Program Reviews. The following paragraphs highlight the key aspects of each of the program reviews
associated with the PAS and outline the distribution of funds to finance subprojects for insured and non-
insured population. PAS Program Reviews will be independent by institution. The IHSS subprojects
would be financed following satisfactory approval of the IHSS disbursement conditions. Similarly MOH
subprojects would be financed following approval of MOH disbursement conditions. Thus unsuccessful
achievement of disbursement conditions by one of the institutions would not affect the financial
resources flow for subprojects proposed by the other institution.
a)     First Program Review for Phase I investments. This program review will be carried out prior to
Effectiveness and will focus, among others, on the following disbursement condition: The borrower
shall approve and present to IHSS a debt payment scheme, including a detailed payment schedule of
accumulated debt to IHSS, as of December 31, 2001, and IHSS should present an approved
investment plan for the use of these resource, including a schedule for the repayment of IHSS
internal debt (health/pensions). (See Annex 2A bis).
Upon credit effectiveness funds could available to provide financing for subprojects that would
allow the MOH and IHSS to demonstrate immediate improvements in quality, and activities to extend
access and introduce innovation, with a clear focus on improving quality standards for maternal and
child health in critical areas.
The areas to be financed by the first allocation of resources for immediate quality improvement
include strengthening comprehensive essential obstetric care equipment for IHSS hospitals and MOH
facilities and providing support for civil works activities to rehabilitate damaged infrastructure and/or
repair (spare parts) equipment in IHSS and MOH hospitals.
b)     Second Program Review for Phase II investments. As in the first review, the funds would be
made available following the compliance of the GOH with disbursement conditions within the PAS,
including that: MOH has issued a Ministerial Resolution established standards of care for the
licensing of public and private primary health care facilities; at least ten percent (10%) of the public
and private primary health care facilities, currently registered in MOH's registry of primary health
care facilities, have been licensed by MOH in accordance with the standards of care established by
MOH; at least three (3) hospitals under the jurisdiction of MOH are implementing a budget
evaluation and monitoring system consistent with the SIAFI System; at least three (3) new contracts
for assisting MOH in the provision of health services have been executed between: MOH and IHSS
and/or MOH and health services providers; the GOH makes payment contributions to IHSS to reduce
its debt with IHSS in respect of its mandatory contributions to IHSS in accordance with the detailed
payment schedule of accumulated debt mentioned in a) above; the Borrower includes its current
contribution to IHSS in the National Budget; and IHSS is complying with the provision of Article 58
of the Social Security Law with respect to separate accounting for its health insurance and pension
funds; IHSS is in compliance with its payment schedule for its internal debt mentioned in a) above;
IHSS has made available to the public audited financial statements; and finally, at least three (3) new
contracts for assisting IHSS in the provision of health services have been executed either between:
IHSS and MOH, and/or IHSS and private health service providers. (See Annex 2A bis).
The investment plans will be separated into subprojects that support IHSS beneficiaries and projects
that support the MOH population. Subprojects can support MOH, IHSS or private/NGOs providing
services to either of these populations. The areas to be financed under the subprojects will focus on
projects that support essential supplies that will be provided to the IHSS and MOH hospitals and
clinics; purchase of new equipment for primary care clinics and emergency care at the hospital level
in those areas where an MOH and IHSS partnership for health care provision already exists; training



12
for health professionals to improve quality standards; implementation of integrated care models for
the extension of coverage, including pilot contracting schemes to extend coverage of IHSS health
insurance to insured population; development of integrated primary care systems by MOH to deliver
primary care to non-insured populations; and management support to MOH and IHSS hospitals to
implement alternative management schemes in those MOH hospitals contracted by IHSS.
c)     Third Program Review for Phase III investments. The final program review would ensure
continuity of the reform actions developed under the previous two reviews. The disbursement
conditions that are a subset of the PAS include: The MOH subprojects supported under Phase I and II
that have the goal of expanding coverage have shown an increase of at least fifty percent in maternal-
child health services. The increase will be in key MCH services indicated the relevant subproject
proposals and will have occurred over the period of the subproject's implementation; The GOH
continues with the payment contributions to IHSS to reduce its debt with IHSS in respect of its
mandatory contributions to IHSS in accordance with the repayment schedule agreed mentioned in a)
above; IHSS makes payments from its health insurance fund to its pension fund in accordance with
the payment schedule mentioned in a) above; IHSS increases health insurance coverage to insured
employees from 450,000 to at least 600,000 insured employees; the Borrower includes its current
contributions to IHSS in the National Budget; and finally at least ten (10) new contracts for assisting
IHSS in the provision of health services have been executed either between: (a) IHSS and MOH;
and/or (b) IHSS and private health service providers (see Annex 2A bis).
The subprojects will focus support the continuing expansion of integrated care models for the
extension of coverage, including: pilot contracting schemes to extend coverage of IHSS health
insurance to insured population; development of integrated primary care systems by MOH to deliver
primary care to non-insured populations; and management support to MOH and IHSS hospitals to
implement alternative management schemes in those MOH hospitals contracted by IHSS.
HV/AEDS activities under Components I and II of the Project. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria is expected to finance some of Honduras' HIV/AIDS program
requirements during the project life.  But the amount and timing still is not known. So the
HIV/AIDS focus of the project will be to better define the National HIV/AIDS Program and finance
gaps in the Program, using the project design approach of technical assistance and subprojects.



13
Component III. Project Management Component (Est. US$3 million)
This component will focus on Project Administration. The component will finance computing and office
equipment and furniture, vehicles for supervision, technical assistance of four long-term technical
consultants, and two specialized advisors (one each for MOH and IHSS) in the PIU, technical
assistance for the strengthening of the PIU operational capacity, project audits, annual procurement
assessments, transportation and per diem of trainers and trainees, printing services of materials, media
releases, and incremental operational costs to support the operation of the technical unit in the PIU. The
GOH has agreed to finance the cost of the Management Agent (MA) that is proposed to assume the
responsibility for the operation of the financial-administrative area of the PIU. Initially, UNDP has been
selected by the GOH as the MA. The PRU General Coordinator will be responsible to establish and
maintain liaison with IHSS and MOH advisors during the execution of the project ensuring that the PIU
provide the necessary support to achieve development objectives agreed for the project. The PIU's
technical unit will also have an important role in the coordination of both the project, as a whole, and the
individual subprojects financed under the multi-year investment plans.
The following table summarizes the main project components, the areas where investments will be
targeted, the indicative costs, the percent of total financing and distribution of external and local
financing.
Indicative   %'of       IDA       '0/% of    GOH          % of
Component                  Costs(*)    Total     financing    IDA     Financing     GOH
(USSM)     Project   (US$M)      financing  USSM      Financing
Cost
1. Health Policy Design and                8.75    28.2        7.75       89         1.00         11
Implementation.
I. Health Delivery and Management        19.25    62.1       17.05       89         2.20         11
Subprojects
* II.A.1 Phase I subprojects MOH           1.75     5.6        1.65        94         .10          6
* II.A.2 Phase I subprojects IHSS          3.75    12.1        3.44        92        .31           8
* Il.B. I Phase 11 subprojects MOH         6.50    21.0        5.65        87         .85         13
* Il.B.2 Phase 11 subprojects IHSS         3.50    11.3        3.04        87         .46         13
* Il.C.1 Phase III subprojects MOH         2.10     6.8        1.83        87         .27         13
* II.C.2 Phase III subprojects IHSS        1.65     5.3        1.44        87         .21         13
111.   Project Management                  3.00     9.7         2.3        77         .70         23
Total Project Costs       31.00    100.0       27.1        87          3.9        13
Front-end fee         N/A
Total Financing Required       31.00    100.0       27.1        87          3.9         13
(*) Figures shown include price and physical contingencies
2. Key policv and institutional reforms suoDorted by the Dro*ect
The project will support the following key policy and institutional reforms:



14
a) extend coverage and improve access to quality health care of the poor and under-served
populations;
b) achieve changes in financing and benefits, financial management and internal controls of the
IHSS to ensure financial sustainability of the social security system;
c) integrate national health policy design and implementation among the public, private and social
security sub-sectors with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and the
Ministry of the Presidency;
d) increase private sector and civil society participation in the management and provision of health
services;
e) strengthen institutional capacity of the MOH to improve policy making, improve health budget
planning and allocation and stress local accountability in the process;
f) strengthen regulations related to quality and quality assurance and licensing of health facilities;
and,
g) increasing the accountability for results and performance of health providers through the
implementation of management agreements, contracts and transfer of financial risk.
3. Benefits and target nopulation
According to the recent report "Honduras: Toward Better Health Care for All", for the poorest 20% of the
population the MOH is the most important source of primary care (68 percent of care), followed by
private facilities (22 percent), and IHSS (2 percent). As income increases, MOH as a source of care is
replaced, first and foremost, by private facilities, followed by IHSS. The top income quintile received 70
percent of primary care from private facilities, followed by the MOH (18 percent), and IHSS (12 percent).
The project's investments in the MOH, targeted particularly at underserved areas and at MC-, would
improve access to services and the quality of care that poor households receive. As poor households in
Honduras include indigenous groups, indigenous groups would also benefit. The project will have built-
in mechanisms to help ensure that services address key barriers to access that these groups, in particular,
face. The investments in IHSS and increase in IHSS coverage will primarily benefit relatively higher
income groups, but they will indirectly benefit in an important manner the MOH-served population. This
is because significant numbers of the IHSS-insured population seek care from the MOH because of lack
of IHSS facilities or poor quality services. Improvements in IHSS coverage and quality will help
alleviate congestion in MOH facilities and free up resources for the poorer, non-insured population.
Over time, as more of the population is covered under IHSS, the MOH will be able to provide better
services to the uninsured population. Regarding HIV/AIDS, the benefit of the project would be a
reduction in the rate of new HIV/AIDS infections in the general population but especially within high-risk
groups and an increase in the quality and coverage of care for the people living with HIV/AIDS in
Honduras. The entire population may be considered the "target" for HIV/AIDS activities, but particular
focus would be placed on persons involved in risky behavior (commercial sex workers, men having sex
with men, indigenous populations, and prisoners). Finally, the women and children covered by these
institutions will benefit significantly by the targeted interventions aimed at improving quality of MCH
services. Given the present crisis, it would be difficult for IHSS to properly implement the health reform
without IDA support.
On the institutional side, the project would have important benefits. The implementation of various
instruments that aim to improve efficiency and introduce more cost-effective technology with
modernization of health facilities and management improvement programs will reduce waste and misuse
of funds and increase accountability, in both the MOH and HiSS. The process would allow IHSS
managers to obtain better value for money and deliver higher quality services, measured both in terms of
health outcomes and customer satisfaction.



15
The reform will have significant macroeconomic benefits for Honduras. The design and implementation
of a series of policy and regulatory changes will help control the long-term financial liability of the
Government with respect to IHSS health insurance and open the door for an increased and more effective
participation of the public and private sectors in the provision of quality health care to IHSS beneficiaries.
Improvements in the population's health status, as the ultimate goal of the reforms, would have an
important impact on labor market productivity as fewer sick days and more productive workers would
contribute to increasing economic growth.
4. Institutional and imDlementation arrangements
4.1 Executing Agencies. The Honduran Social Security Institute and the Ministry of Health will be the
executing agencies for the proposed project over a 5-year time frame.
The institutional and implementation arrangements have been agreed with the GOH for the project's
governance and management. Governance of the project will be entrusted to a Inter-Institutional Reform
Committee (IRC) responsible for policy changes and the oversight of Project evolution. The IRC will be
created by executive decree prior to effectiveness to establish its legality, The executive decree will be
issued by the Ministry of Presidency. The IRC will be composed of 5 members and one Secretary, with
one representative each from Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOH, and IHSS, and the Ministry of Labor
(MOL), and Ministry of the Presidency (MOP). IRC decisions will be made by majority vote. The
Secretary of the IRC will act as General Coordinator of the Project Implementation Unit. The IRC will
approve all the strategic matters relevant to policy changes agreed in the PAS, and all investments for
subprojects financed by Component II. Detailed criteria for selection and procedures for procurement of
subprojects and the resources required thereof will be described in the Operational Manual (OM), on the
basis of the procurement plans agreed with IDA for each subproject investment phase. The IRC will meet
at least three times during project implementation for the scheduled Programs Reviews described in Annex
2. The allocation of funds between IHSS and MOH for each phase of subprojects has been agreed and is
shown in the Cost by Component Table in this section. Funds for each phase of subprojects will be
accessible upon satisfactory results of each Program Review, to be monitored by disbursement conditions.
Procurement Plans for each Phase of subprojects would be furnished to IDA by IHSS and MOH at least 60
days prior to the Second and Third Program Review, as described in Annex 6.
4.2. Project Management. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established to manage and
administer the project, under the oversight of the IRC. The PIU will be composed of a Technical Unit
(UTEC). The functioning and daily operations of the UTEC would be the responsibility of the General
Coordinator of the PIU. The PIU will be staffed with two technical Component Coordinators in charge of
ensuring that actions in PAS are advanced by MOH and IHSS. One change agent each will assist these
two professionals. To strengthen the role of the General Coordinator, two strategic advisors would be
hired to act as technical linkages for matters of importance and project implementation that merit the
concurrence of each executing agency to the agreed PAS.
The GOH has proposed and IDA has concurred with, the assistance of UNDP Honduras, to assume full
and integral responsibility of all administrative, financial, procurement, and disbursement functions
required to administer the PRSS. UNDP has agreed to sign with the MOH and IHSS an Agency
Agreement to the Macro Cooperation Agreement signed by MOF for GOH in early 2001. The signing of
the Agency Agreement is a condition of effectiveness. Under this arrangement, UNDP would carry out
project administration on behalf of IHSS and MOH, and would deploy a team of full-time qualified
specialists that would fully replace the administrative-structure in the PIU.  UNDP's designated
representative would liaise, advice, and consult on all matters related to project administration with the



16
General Coordinator. UNDP would, therefore, assume all responsibilities agreed by the GOH with IDA,
for budgeting, financial reporting, accounting, monitoring and control of credit and counterpart proceeds,
procurement, payments and disbursements of the project. In this role, UNDP will be the depositary of all
advanced funds from the credit and the GOH, disbursing directly from IDA on behalf of the GOH, as per
agreed allocations, signed by authorized IHSS and MOH designated officials, following procedures in
OM. The PIU General Coordinator will serve as principal contact point with IDA regarding all project
implementation information and reporting, and will be responsible for outcomes of PAS implementation,
as detailed in his/her terns of reference.
4.3 Procurement Issues. The Project Procurement Capacity (PPCAR) assessment done for the project
concluded that, at present, the GOH continues to face institutional, regulatory, budgetary, staffing, and
effective external oversight problems relating to procurement (Annex 6, Procurement). This raises
concerns about MOH and IHSS's ability to effectively implement the project under prevailing conditions.
As a result of the outcome of the PPCAR and the discussions with the GOH officials at time of pre-
appraisal, the GOH decided to hire UNDP as their Management Agent (MA). Cost associated with the
MA would be borne by the GOH. An update of the PPCAR has carried out to include UNDP Honduras
as the MA. The assessment concluded that UNDP is qualified to take on the functions required to
conduct the procurement activity in the project. It was also determined that UNDP has in place a
satisfactory team and adequate know-how to carry out the procurement plans for the project. Details of
the assessment are in Annex 6, PAD Procurement. With the involvement of UNDP in the processing of
procurement items and payment of all contracts in the project, and its expressed commitment to put at the
disposal of the GOH a team of qualified consultants, the risks that would have otherwise been impressed
on the project by the contracting and budget laws referred to in the assessment, would be eliminated.
UNDP would also assist in project implementation by hiring specialized consultants to assist in the
preparation of the subproject proposals for MOH and IHSS.
4.4 Financial management issues
Country Financial Management (FM) issues relevant to the project. The GOH faces several financial
management obstacles that prevent operational efficiency, sound personnel management and effective
external oversight (see Annex 6 of the PAD - Financial Management). This, in addition to the limitations
of MOH and IHSS to implement procurement actions (see Annex 6 of the PAD - Procurement), has led
the GOH to decide on outsourcing the project's administration (financial and procurement management).
UNDP has been selected as the provider of the cited services for the project.
Audit compliance. The Nutrition and Health Project (Credit 2452-HO), executed by MOH with the
assistance of UNDP, is in compliance with audit covenants. As for the overdue audit reports in the
country portfolio, these are not the consequence of factors related to UNDP's performance or issues
relevant to the proposed project.
Assessment. The IDA's project FM assessment concluded that UNDP has in place an adequate FM
system for the project. Results of the assessment and recommended actions are found in Annex 6 of the
PAD - Financial Management.
Flow of funds. As described in sections 4.1, 4.2 above, the MOH, IHSS, IRC and the PIU will not have
direct involvement in the handling of funds. UNDP has been selected by the GOH to undertake this
function under the following arrangements:



17
An initial advance of the amount needed to cover approximately six months of expenditures will be
disbursed by the IDA to UNDP Honduras' account in Bank of America (Dallas). All further
reimbursements will be deposited to this account, which UNDP monitors on a daily basis. Transfers from
this account to the country office operating fund in Banco Atlantida are made to cover no more than one
month's anticipated regular disbursements in local currency.
In accordance with the approved budget for the project, the National Treasury will disburse counterpart
funds to UNDP's account in Banco Atlantida on a quarterly basis. The first quota should cover
approximately three months of expenditures to be in line with the IDA's first disbursement.
All payments in US Dollars to providers of goods and services will be made out of the account in Bank of
America. The account in Banco Atlantida will be used for payments in Lempiras.
Requests for credit disbursements. For replenishment of the advance, UNDP will prepare monthly (in
any case, no more than quarterly) requests for reimbursement of expenditures made. The Withdrawal
Applications would be submitted by MOF as is the practice with the current country portfolio. Credit
withdrawal applications can be supported by statements of expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures relating
to contracts that are not subject to the IDA's prior review. Reimbursement of other expenditures would
require submittal to the IDA of full supporting documentation.
Project financial reporting arrangements. The quarterly financial statements will include the Statement
of Sources and Uses of Funds and the Advance Reconciliation Statement (similar to the SA reconciliation
statement). These project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections
of the Financial Management Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the IDA no later than 45 days after
the end of each reporting quarter. FMRs will be used for reporting, not disbursement, purposes.
For IDA purposes, the annual financial statements will include, additionally, the schedule of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications.
In addition to the financial information mentioned above, UNDP will report to the MOH and IHSS the
budget execution for each month. It is expected that this information will be easily retrieved, as there
would be only two line items (local and external funds) for the project's budget in each of the two entities.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the IDA. In addition to the audit opinions on project accounts and Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs), a compliance report will be required to deal specifically with eligibility of
payments for subprojects per criteria established in the Credit Agreement and Operational Manual.
Since the IHSS is an autonomous entity that will be receiving IDA funds for institutional strengthening,
the IDA will also require the submission of IHSS' audited financial statements.
The project and entity audit reports will be submitted to the IDA no later than six months after the end of
the reporting period (which coincides with the calendar year).



18
D. Project Rationale
1. Proiect alternatives considered and reasons for reiection
The fundamental choice made early in the preparation process was to use a SIL rather than a SAL
structure for the credit. It was felt that the weak supervision of key actions and large tranched
disbursements that characterize adjustment support would not provide the specific solutions need for
substantial health sector reform. The alternative presented here links policy actions with financing and
creates strong incentives for the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of the Presidency to take an active role
in policymaking, through their participation in the IRC and through the linkage established between the
program review and the subproject disbursement conditions. It also links availability of investment funds
to the agreed reform matrix. However, unlike in a SAL structure, the institutions undertaking the reforms
also benefit from the investments for productive purposes to be financed with Credit proceeds.
The GOH and IDA chose not to include the following activities in the project:
Major Hospital Investment. The IDB health project and other donors are financing major hospital
infrastructure in Honduras. This project concentrates hospital-infrastructure efforts on maintenance of
facilities and on equipment for rapid quality improvements, areas of great importance and not sufficiently
supported by other donors.
Human Resources in health care and medical education reforms. While these are areas that require
reform, and this is recognized by both the MOH and IHSS, the political, technical, and regulatory aspects
of addressing them are complicated, and deserve to be the subject of a subsequent operation instead of a
small component in a large reform project. In the meantime, both the Modernization of the State process
and the IDB Health Program are introducing changes in the public service and in the MOH respectively,
that will prepare initial activities necessary for designing and implementing a future human resources
reform for the health sector.
Pensions. The proposed program will not introduce any changes in pensions, aside from separation of
the health and pension accounts, because there is no clear proposal on pension reform at the national
level. The GOH has asked the team to concentrate on the proposed reforms for the IHSS while a national
consensus regarding pensions is built.



19
2. Maior related Projects financed by the IDA and/or other development aeencies (completed.
onazoina and planned)
Sector Issue                       Project                             Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
(IDA-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
IDA-financed                                                      Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Emergency support to MOH to recover  Supplemental Credit for Health and  S            S
from damage by Hurricane Mitch     Nutrition
Primary Health & Nutrition         Nutrition and Health                 S             S
Social Investment Fund 3            S              S
Social Investment Fund 4            S              S
Public Sector Modernization         S              S
Structural Adjustment
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank    Programa de Reorganizaci6n
Institucional y Extensi6n de los
Servicios Basicos del Sector Salud
(PRIESS)
USAID                              Programa ACCESO
USAID                              Salud II
Spanish Govermment                 Hospital Investment
JICA                               CLIPPER (maternal clinics)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proiect desiv!n
Reviews of current and past lending to Honduras and ongoing reform experiences within Honduras and
internationally have provided lessons for this project. First, the reforn concept and process supported by
the project are of a long-term, structural nature, and they involve complex technical and institutional
changes, as well as political decisions. Nations that have followed reforn principles similar to those
proposed include Germany, Israel, the Netherlands, and Spain. Latin American nations supported by
IBRD and IDA that are in a similar process of reform include Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, and
Nicaragua. The following general lessons, which are critical to the project, can be identified:
*   The needfor political will and leadership. This has been demonstrated by the Government and
IHSS in their reform initiative and the active participation and ownership in the choice of key
project alternatives.
*  FlexibiUity over time.  The technical assistance component provides flexibility to help find
solutions to unanticipated issues that may arise.
*   Cost of transition. Even rich nations tend to allocate resources toward reform design, and not
toward its implementation. This is often a key obstacle to reform, unwittingly reinforcing the
underlying inertia of political and institutional opposition. The size of the credit and the nature of
the IDA's technical support - including needed technical assistance under this operation,
training, and pilot testing - provide Honduras with tools to overcome this obstacle.



20
* Disbursement Conditions. Disbursement conditions, linked to financing of subprojects in
component II must be clearly defined and easily monitorable. The subprojects themselves
should contribute to the objectives of the reform.
* Technical Assistance. Priorities for technical assistance should be carefully identified and
supported with rigorous supervision.
* Develop sufficient technical and administrative capacity of the implementing agency to
faciitate adequate implementation. The PIU will be strengthened with the appointment of key
personnel to be trained by a specialized group that will be selected and contracted competitively.
There will be close collaboration and sharing of information between the newly created PCU and
the existing MOH and IHSS personnel divisions.
* Promote cooperation, communication and coordination with other key governmental
institutions. The project will establish the IRC with participation from the Ministry of Health,
the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor, the IHSS and the Ministry of the Presidency to ensure
a high level of transparency, communication and cooperation that are vital to promote the reform
program.
* Develop an adequate communications strategy. The project has incorporated the necessary
technical assistance for both MOH and IHSS to implement a coherent and coordinated project
communication strategy which will ease implementation of some difficult policy reforms.
* The key lesson learned from international experience is that no two systems are alike and
therefore each system must be carefully considered on its own merits. The preparation of this
project has taken some time because its design has purposely accompanied the important changes
in the health reform agenda that had evolved at the national level over the past year.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownershin
The government's commitment to, and ownership of the project, are strong. The project has been
prepared in consultation with a wide range of key sector players both from the Government, civil society
and the public sector. Strong commitment to the reforms is indicated by the following actions:
* The project is viewed as an important part of a broader government effort to modernize the whole
public bureaucracy. Thus, several Ministries (MOH, MOL, MOF and MOP) have worked with
the project team during preparation.
* The IHSS Board worked under difficult circumstances in the design of and consensus building of,
an IHSS Reform Plan. The Plan was approved by all members, and most of its actions are
reflected in the PAS of this project. The Plan is in agreement with the IMF program with
Honduras.
* The GOH appointed a "Comisi6n Interventora" to deal with the IHSS crisis. The Commission
worked with the Board and the IHSS until January of 2001 when new authorities were elected.
* New IHSS authorities were elected by the IHSS Board from candidates proposed by the private
sector and the labor unions according to the negotiations that took place at the time. These
candidates were appointed by the GOH.
* The GOH acknowledged and calculated its public debt to the IHSS and already has paid a large
share of it despite many other priorities competing for public resources.
* The GOH has negotiated with labor unions in order to restore regular functions at the IHSS and in
the health sector.
* Despite the difficulties encountered with the private sector regarding breaking contribution
ceilings, Congress recently passed the Law amending the 1959 Social Security Law and dealt
directly with the problem by mediating between private sector, labor unions, Government and
IHSS.



21
Following the change in administration in January 2002, the project's development objectives and design
were reviewed with the new authorities in February 2002. The authorities found the project highly
supportive of its strategy and goals and the health sector. The new team endorsed the project approach
and wants to proceed as quickly as possible with the proposed Project.
5. Value added of IDA support in this pro*ect
IDA's unique contribution is in the areas of institutional restructuring, policy development and in
stimulating the development of innovative health delivery systems to expand coverage to insured and
non-insured populations. Despite the fact that after Hurricane Mitch there was a significant influx of
financial resources into the health sector in Honduras, including additional assistance from IDA in the
form of a Supplementary credit to the Health and Nutrition Project, which closed on June 30, 2001, there
is no operation dealing with the IHSS and with specific activities for extension of coverage. Components
I and II, under the oversight of the IDA, will have an important impact on the regulatory role of MOH, the
communication among both institutions, coordination of policy initiatives, and transparency in the sector.
The IDA would also bring worldwide experience into project design and implementation. Experts from
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Spain contributed to project design.  During
implementation, IDA will also assist the GOH in organizing study tours to other countries with relevant
national experiences. Finally, IDA obtained a grant from the governments of Japan to support project
preparation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4)
Cost benefit NPV=US$25 million; IRR = 124 percent (see Annex 4)
The economic evaluation considers the project's costs and the measurable direct economic benefits
expected from the successful implementation of the project. The project would produce important
indirect benefits that will measured by the monitoring and evaluation system to allow for ex post
evaluation but will not be assumed ex-ante. As an example, reducing the number of bed days due to
complications from diabetes or hypertension that result from improvements in the health care model will
reduce the productivity losses associated with medical care. Because of the late addition of the
HIV/AIDS activities, the economic analysis excludes the costs and benefits from the project support for
HIV/AIDS prevention and care and treatment of STIs. These programs typically have extremely high
rates of return, with benefits accruing to the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
In total, enhancement of system performance is expected to save over $38 million over the life of the
project and over $95 million over a ten year horizon. To determine the overall cost-benefit of the
proposed investment, the economic analysis includes the project costs of $26 million, plus nearly $5
million in recurrent expenditure per year related to the ongoing costs associated with improving access to
primary health care services and extending social security. Recurrent costs are estimated at 15 percent of
capital investment and a depreciation schedule of five years for equipment purchases, three years for
computer equipment, and 40 years for infrastructure improvements. In addition, partial costs of the
innovative models are costed as full recurrent costs going forward. In summary, the project would yield a
net present value (NPV) of benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of over $25 million and produce
an internal rate of return (IRR) of nearly 124 percent over ten years.



22
The main results include:
Table 1: Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
5 years         10 years
NPV (US$ millions)                                 $7.6            $25.3
IRR                                                                124%
Total Costs                                        $26             $50
Benefit Cost Ratio                                                 2:1
Note: NPV Benefits is equal to the direct benefits, minus total project costs (in US$ millions)
Benefit:Cost is equal to total benefits divided by total costs
IRR was calculated based on net benefits over 10 years
Assuming the cost and benefit measures truly capture their full value, then NPV > 0, CBR >1 or IRR >
discount rate (10 percent) automatically implies that the project is worth supporting. Several factors
indicate the present analysis is more likely to underestimate the full value than to overestimate: the
analysis uses only two proxy indicators to measure multiple benefits, no indirect benefits are included,
and target levels for direct benefits are conservatively estimated given the benefits demonstrated in the
ongoing Health System Reform Project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5)
Fiscal Impact: Estimates of the sustainability of the project are based on an analysis of the project's
recurrent costs generated by annual maintenance costs of equipment and continuation of projects aimed at
the extension of the basic package. Upon project completion, the annual recurrent costs will account for
between US$4.5 million and US$5.2 million per year, including the additional operating costs generated
by the investment, maintenance costs of 5 percent per year, and an annual depreciation of 10 percent per
year for equipment. The fiscal analysis excludes the HIV/AIDS activities, because of their late inclusion
in the project.
The recently approved Social Security Law introduces important changes that have a significant impact
on public spending on health and on public spending responsibilities. First, the Law increased the
contribution ceiling for social security to $2,400 Lempiras in January 2002, $3,600 Lempiras in July 2003
and $4,800 in July 2003. The impact of this change for public spending is based on the increased social
security obligations for the government as employer. In addition, the government's subsidy to social
security increased from 0.5 percent to 1.0 percent, each, for health and pensions. In terms of public
spending responsibilities, the increase in overall social security revenues will allow IHSS to rapidly
increase health spending to meet the challenges of increased coverage of the new Law amending the 1959
Social Security Law.
The fiscal analysis assumes that: (i) private spending and MOH spending remain at 7 percent of GDP but
social security spending increases from 0.45 percent of GDP in 2001 to 2.4 percent of GDP in 2010; (ii)
2.5 percent real growth in GDP over the next 10 years; and (iii) and public spending constant at 11
percent of GDP. Estimated recurrent expenditures from the project are projected to reach a maximum of
2.4 percent of total public spending on health, and taper off to just over 1.3 percent by 2009. The
relatively low percentage is due to the significant increase in IHSS spending.
Overall spending on health, both public and private, is projected to increase from 7.5 percent of GDP in
2001 to over 9 percent of GDP by 2009 due to changes in social security. In absolute terms, the increase
in government social security contributions would imply increases of US$2.7 million and US$0.47



23
million, respectively, in 2001; this would increase to US$10.9 and US$1.6, respectively, by 2005. As a
percentage of total public spending, the increasing government fiscal contributions would account for a
maximum of 1 percent of public spending. As a percentage of total public spending on health, the
increased fiscal contributions would account for a high of 4 percent in 2004, tapering off to 2.3 percent in
2009.
3. Technical
The technical design of the project has been based on lessons learned from Honduras' experience to date
with health reforms and international best practice. The policy changes, summarized in the PAS, are
prioritized to include what is most essential in the coming years, and they are supported by resources to
design and implement the reforms in a sound way. The investment subprojects provide flexibility, and
criteria are provided for subproject selection to ensure that subprojects are supportive of the project
objectives. Both MOH and IHSS have strong incentives to accomplish the policy changes in order to
access subproject financing. Both must complete the identified policy changes to receive subproject
financing. Unsatisfactory performance of disbursement conditions by one of them will not affect the
financial flow for subprojects proposed by the other. In fact, prolonged unsatisfactory perforrnance by
one institution could lead to a reallocation of resources in Component II to the other institution, if it
achieves its disbursement conditions. There is a better chance of overall project success with this design
than with a straight investment program without policy conditions or a straight adjustment program
without specific investment/technical assistance activities. Furthermore, the project design contains a
feedback loop in terms of monitoring and evaluation, to improve implementation and impact as the
project implements.
4. Institutional
Project design is built upon the finding and recommendations of a recent institutional assessment done at
the time of the restructuring of an IDB health loan. In this project, IDA financing will concentrate only
on the institutional strengthening of ongoing shared activities between the MOH and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) as they move ahead in the process of modernizing the health budget. During preparation,
among the major issues and conclusions taken in consideration for the design was the fact that both MOH
and MOF were working separately on the same issues, although significant progress had been
accomplished in the MOH through the SIGAF ("Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial Administrativa y
Financiera").  The technical assistance (TA) addresses this institutional fragmentation and this is
reflected in the Technical Assistance Plan (Annex 2.B) proposed for the project. The proposed operation
would also continue to support the strengthening of the MOH, in conjunction with the new process that
the MOF is now implementing in the MOH in the form of a pilot. Another important issue focuses on
weak capacity of the MOH vis-A-vis its regulatory role. To address this limitation, it is proposed to assist
the MOH in developing its capacity for regulating key aspects of the health sector. By the same token, an
institutional assessment of the IHSS was done during preparation of this project, which includes details
on weaknesses and challenges. The project is designed to reduce sector fragmentation in IHSS, too.
Therefore, the success of the actions proposed in the PAS would require a solid, close, and timely
collaboration between the MOH and the IHSS. In addition, in order to advance coherent health sector
policy, it would be necessary that all sub-sectors are involved in policy decisions (private, MOH and
social security), and that any changes introduced in the health sector are in accordance with the
underlying macroeconomic policy.  Moreover, the TA and the training plan connected to specific
projects outputs, plus the use of NGOs and private sector health service providers, are expected to
encourage broader development of social and economic institutions.



24
5. Environmental                 Environmental Category: B
5.1. Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A health care waste management assessment was carried out as part of project preparation (Annex 2D).
The assessment found that, by and large, legislation relevant to health care waste management (The
Health Code, The General Regulation on Environmental Health, The General Environmental Law) is
adequate in Honduras, but, as in most countries, there is inadequate management of medical waste. In
particular, there is a problem with mixing hazardous waste with non-hazardous waste for collection
instead of maintaining separate waste streams. The mixed waste is then extemally collected and disposed
of in an inadequate manner. This situation is not unique to Honduras--these problems are widespread in
many countries due to a number of factors, including lack of trained staff, shortage of equipment, and
infrastructure. While this project has a major focus on institutional reform, nonetheless there are
opportunities to strengthen health care waste management. Following the recommendations in Annex 2D,
the project will: (I) finance an update of the 1995 study on management waste disposal with an estimated
budget of US$50,000; (2) in its efforts to develop and implement licensing of health facilities, include, as
appropriate, the need to follow: (i) regulations regarding waste management and (ii) recommendations of
the updated management waste disposal study; (3) ensure that subprojects comply with environmental
waste management standards, and, following the priorities identified in the updated waste management
study mentioned above, finance selected investments in waste management training, equipment, and
infrastructure under Component II; and (4) following the priorities identified in the updated study, include
adequate waste disposal specifications in the selection of subprojects including contracting out of services
(for example, with sanitation companies) if such contracts are financed under Component II.
5.2. What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Subprojects submitted to IDA will have to follow national environmental standards and include if
applicable adequate environmental plans.
5.3. For category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date receipt of final draft: April, 2002
5.4. How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environmental management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The EA was done in close coordination with the PAHO office in Tegucigalpa. MOH officials were
consulted and the MOH approved the results and conclusions of the EA. The EA was disseminated in
Honduras through newspaper ads that indicated that copies were available at the Bank Resident Mission,
the UN Documentation Center, and the MOH.
5.5. What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
All subprojects will develop a set of monitoring and evaluation impact indicators which, when applicable,
will also have to include environmental indicators.



25
6. Social
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social development issues. Several social development issues deserve special attention in the case of
the health sector in Honduras. Poverty, a clear determinant of health status, is prevalent in the country
where 66 percent of the population is poor and 49 percent is extremely poor. The prevailing inequality of
access to health services and, consequently, the inequality of health status between the rural and the urban
areas will be a major focus for reform in the Project. Furthermore, as detailed in the Social Assessment,
the relative exclusion of indigenous peoples from the national society and consequently their still lower
access to health care is of great concem. This exclusion is the result of geographical, language and cost
barriers as well different and sometimes conflicting belief systems about the causes and treatment of ill
health and care-seeking behavior.
Honduras has been the focus of several participatory studies of the causes and of poverty and strategies
aimed at mitigating its impact. The recently finalized Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) has
outlined many of the challenges and potential solutions, and provided Honduras with a road map for
accomplishing its objectives. To date, however, the health system continues to face challenges in
delivering services effectively to poor people, particularly in rural areas, and to ethnic minorities. GOH
has agreed that, under the framework of its Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP), the project will
finance: (i) Technical assistance to tabulate data obtained from the community mapping plans of
indigenous peoples and peoples of African descent being nowadays carried out by the MOH, and (ii)
capacity building for staff at central level to deal with issues specifically related to indigenous people's
health. (Annex 2C) The goal is to better understand the needs of these groups, and thus create a health
strategy that addresses issues of access and quality as well as cultural concems. Throughout the Project,
social development outcomes will be monitored.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Preparation. Health reformn in Honduras has been an ongoing process for more than a decade. It has
been accompanied by a variety of consultation mechanisms, including the PRSP, with key social actors.
The PRSP consultations took place in the main regions of the country, involving 2,500 people directly,
including local organizations, NGOs and community groups and included discussions on health. The
project design benefited from this consultation process. The project's design also benefited from the
Honduras Indigenous Peoples Profile which recommends innovative actions to effectively reach
indigenous peoples with health care coverage. In meetings held in Honduras during project preparation,
representatives of indigenous groups were informed about the project framework and the project
components. In those meetings, there were discussions about proposals in the document entitled
"Integrated Development of the Health of Indigenous People and People of African Descent in Honduras
(September 2001)" and how some of the proposed projects might be submitted for consideration as
subprojects in Component II. Subprojects will be selected according to eligibility criteria outlined in the
Operational Manual.
The project design also draws on the recently completed report Honduras: Toward Better Health Care
for Al. The MOH has prepared its strategy and action plan for improving the health of indigenous
peoples in Honduras, following consultation between national officials and the autochthonous
communities represented by the different indigenous federations. This strategy and action plan is
presented in the Integrated Health Project for Indigenous and Creoles People in Honduras (2002-2006).



26
Subprojects in Component 11 that expand coverage of services for Indigenous Peoples will follow
recommendations in this strategy.
Implementation. Community-based NGOs will be involved in implementation as some of the IHSS and
MOH subprojects are aimed at supporting contracting out of services such as HIV/AIDS prevention and
care to community-based NGOs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Health NGOs will be contracted in some of the subprojects to expand coverage and improve quality of
health services, including those addressing children, youth and mothers.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The main activities of the second component of the project include innovative subprojects carried out
through contract management mechanisms that involve partnership of the MOH and IHSS with the
private sector, NGOs and communities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Performance will be measured through the M&E system. To evaluate progress towards project objectives
the evaluation system will collect and compare baseline data at the beginning, during and after project
implementation. M&E activities will also take into account geographic differences in indicators where
health outcomes, coverage and quality of services varies considerably by rural/urban regions and by
concentrations of indigenous peoples and peoples of African descent.



27
7. Safeguard Policies
Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                             Applicability
Q      Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             Yes
Q      Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     No
Q      Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      No
Q      Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        No
Q      Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    No
Q      Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     Yes
Q      Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               No
1D     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                No
Q      Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     No
QU     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           No
The project through its rehabilitation and minor construction activities will not promote resettlement.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabilitv
Proposed reforms would be sustainable in the medium and long term as long as policy decisions, for
example, on the costs of benefit packages to be provided, are based on good quality technical work and
broadly supported. The health policy design component would support high quality technical analysis in
these crucial areas. Technical and administrative sustainability will be provided through the appointment
of new personnel, training of existing personnel at MOH and IHSS, hiring of a Administrative-financial
Management Agency for financial and administrative management, technical assistance and close
supervision by IDA. The goal is to build local institutional capacity and consensus among important
sector players as well as to enhance project ownership. A complete fiscal impact and economic
evaluation has been carried out that looks at project financial sustainability. A summary of this analysis is
provided in Annex 4.



28
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating       Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Slow project implementation.                     S      GOH has decided that UNDP will handle
administrative and procurement matters.
Lack of sufficient and timely Government and     S      GOH contributions to IHSS are a
private sector social security contributions.           disbursement condition.
Opposition by health personnel towards new       S      Project investments and policy change
management arrangements of IHSS and MOH                 should improve working conditions and
facilities.                                             empower employees.
From Components to Outputs
IHSS weak technical and administrative capacity  S      Capacity building through the program
Overall Risk Rating                              S       Lengthy preparation and close
supervision
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk). This is an
operation with substantial risks, but high potential returns.
Slow project implementation. The risk is substantial given experience to date in Honduras. Project
implementation arrangements have been designed to mitigate the risks.
Lack of sufficient and timely Government and private sector contributions to IHSS. This risk is
substantial. The GOH has demonstrated commitment to the financial strengthening of IHSS and has paid
part of its debt to IHSS. As part of the PAS, the government needs to pay its contributions to IHSS.
Opposition by health personnel to new management arrangements of IHSS and public facilities.
This risk is substantial. To mitigate this risk, the project introduces subprojects that would improve
quality of care for patients and working conditions for health professionals. Subprojects would be
selected by an Inter-Institutional Reform Committee with representation from the public, private, social
security sub-sectors, following criteria laid out in the Operational Manual.
IHSS' weak technical and administrative capacity. This is a substantial risk. The strong technical
assistance of this project, the policy dialogue and close supervision during implementation are elements to
mitigate this risk. Furthermore, the presence of the Inter-Institutional Reform Committee IRC and
UNDP's assistance in financial and administrative management of the project will contribute to improve
the technical and administrative capacity of IHSS personnel involved in the implementation of project
activities.
3. Possible Controversial Asnects
None



29
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiation Conditions
The following conditions were met:
a) The borrower furnished a policy letter signed by the Ministers of Finance, Health and Labor,
and the Director of IHSS outlining its reform plan in the health sector, focusing on regulation,
quality, extension of coverage, and IHSS reforms (main body of letter in Attachment I to
Annex 1). The letter included a draft of the subsidiary agreement between the Ministry of
Finance and IHSS.
b) Draft Agreement with UNDP submitted to the IDA.
2. Effectiveness Conditions
a) Signature of the subsidiary Agreement between IHSS and MOF.
b) Signature of the Agency Agreement with the Management Agent (UNDP).
c) Project's Chart of accounts prepared and entered in UNDP's management information
system.
d) Operational Manual agreeable to the IDA
e) The IRC has been established.
f) PIU established and staffed.
g) IDA has approved in form and substance the list of MOH and IHSS subprojects for Phase I
investments.
h) The borrower has approved and furnished a debt payment schedule for GOH arrears to the
IHSS; IHSS should present an approved investment plan for the use of this resources
included and agreed repayment schedule of the IHSS health fund (EMA) to the pension fund
(IVM).
i) First quota of counterpart contribution to the project, covering estimated needs for six
months, is disbursed to UNDP
3. Disbursement Conditions
See Annex 2A bis for specific details
4. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
a) Project implementation in accordance with an Operational Manual.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X]    The procurement plan (PAC) for the first year's activities in the PAS has been completed,
and the PAC for Phase 1 of Subprojects would be agreed prior to effectiveness.



30
[X]    UNDP, as management agent, is committed to provide immediate support to the GOH
through its newly installed business center in its Honduras office, deploying qualified staff to
advance procurement activities in advance to effectiveness and during implementation
[X]    The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared and will be confirmed at appraisal.
The PIP is considered realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ]    The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G)
I. Compliance with IDA Policies
[X]    This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Maria-Luisa Escobar/ Heen           An      A   ltg a           Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Saxenian      4      i        X
Team Leaders                          Sector Director            Country Director



31
Annex 1
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation             Critical
Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to IDA
Mission)
Poverty alleviation and     *   Maternal mortality ratio falls from  *  Maternal Mortality  *   Consistency and
improved health status of the    108/100,000 live births (1997) to  Surveillance data 2004.     continuity of
population, particularly of     no more than 75 per 100,000 live  *  Reproductive Age Mortality  government's
women, infants and the poor     births in 2004                     Survey to be repeated in     complementary social
*   Infant mortality falls from 3 6/1000  2003 or 2004              policies and programs
in 1996 to no more than 30/1000 in *  Demographic and Health
2004                               Survey to be repeated in
*   Under 5 child mortality rate.      2004
decreases from 48/1000 in 1996
(ENESF) to 35/1000 in 2004
*   Incidence of HIV/AIDS (goal is to  Note: Vital statistics, if
reduce growth in incidence)       further strengthened over the
period, could potentially be
Note: these declines would be      used to measure infant
consistent with achievement of the  mortality by 2004 instead of
Millenium Development Goals of    the DHS. Extemal financing
reducing infant mortality rates and  expected for DHS and
maternal mortality ratios by two-  Reproductive Age Mortality
I   thirds between 1990 and 2015       Surveys.                 I



32
Hierarchy of Objectives            Key Performance             Monitoring & Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Extend and improve health care  Coverage                       *   Project reports and PAS  *    Consistency and
coverage and quality of care  *  IHSS coverage for direct insured  program reviews.              continuity of
while improving efficiency in   increases from 376,000 direct  *   M&E system.                   Govemment's support
the IHSS and the MOH.            insured to at least 600,000.      MOH and IHSS Facility        to the project.
*   Percent of children under five with  *
access to a health facility able to  Surveys, including     *   Govemment phases in
provide integrated management of   observation of health        implementation of the
childhood illness                  workers diagnosis and        new Law amending
*   Percent of sick children correctly  treatment and exit interviews  the 1959 Social
assessed and treated in health    (baseline collected following  Security Law
facility.                          project effectiveness and  *  Govemment pays
Oualitv                                repeated during project      arrears and social
*   Percent of deliveries with skilled  implementation-targets to   security contributions
attendance.                        be agreed once baseline      as employer to IHSS
*   Satisfaction of mothers with care  measurements collected)  *    Stakeholder
provided to sick children (exit                                 consensus and support
interviews).                                                    to the reform process
Efriciency                                                           is maintained.
*   30% of public and private primary
care establishments have been
licensed according to quality
standards defined by the project.
*   At least 10 satisfactory contracting
mechanisms being implemented
between (a) the IHSS and MOH,
and/or (b) IHSS or M014 and
I    private health service providers.



33
Hierarchy of Objectives            Key Performance              Monitoring & Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Output from each             Output Indicators:                 Project reports:              (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                                    Objective)
Component 1. Health Policy
Design and Implementation.
Areas of intervention according
to PAS are:
1. Regulation (MOH)          1. Regulation (MOH)
Developed                *   Regulatory framework for   *   Project progress reports  *  Technical assistance
comprehensive health         licensing public and private  *  M&E system                 studies are
sector regulation and        PHC facilities approved.  *    PAS Program Reviews          successfully done and
strengthened MOH         *   Regulation, if necessary, for  *  Relevant national         health policy design is
regulatory capacity          MOH being able to contract     regulations approved.        based on their
services (sell and purchase                                 findings.
services form others)                                   *   National technical
approved.                                                   leadership is
developed for the
2. MOH Resource allocation and  2. MOH Resource allocation and IHSS                              health sector.
IHSS Financial sustainabilitv.  Financial sustainability.                                    *   The Inter-institutional
*   Alleviated IHSS          *   Agreed debt payment of                                      Reform Committee
financial crisis and         Government debt made to                                     (ICR) complies with
developed mechanisms         IHSS as scheduled.                                         its strategic role.
to make IHSS             *   Annual GOH contributions to                             *   Public and IHSS
financially sustainable.     IHSS included in National                                   employees are well
*   Improved resource            Budget.                                                     informed and
allocation efficiency    *   Internal IHSS debt payments                                interested in
and equity of MOH            from health insurance system                                introducing
Budget..                    to pension system made as                                    management change
*   Developed local              agreed.                                                     in health facilities
accountability of MOH    *   IHSS Contribution rates                                 *   Extension of coverage
health facilities.           implemented according to                                    improves IHSS
Decree No 140 1959.                                         revenue and financial
*   All health regions applied                                  sustainability.
satisfactory new procedures                             *   Health care personnel
for budgeting process.                                      and private sector
support to the
implementation of
3. Institutional modernization of 3. Institutional Modernization of IHSS                         new management
IHSS                                                                                             arrangements for
*   Modernized structured    *   Modernization Plan approved                                 public facilities.
of the IHSS                  by IHSS Board
*   Improved efficiency of   *   Early retirement plan
local health care            approved for IHSS personnel
facilities.              *   Financial accounting
according to health insurance
and pension benefit schemes
separated
4. Health Care Service Delivery 4. Health Care Service Delivery (MOH
(MOH and IHSS)               and IHSS)
*   Promoted sector          *   Hospital improvement plans,
integration and              linked with MCH targets and



34
improved health              other performance targets
service delivery under       established by the project,
public/private mix           approved for regional and
provision schemes            district hospitals
Improved quality of      *   Innovative management
care                         schemes for IHSS approved
and implemented
*   At least 10 contracts in
underserved health areas
signed between both
institutions or between each
institution and private health
service providers.
*   Quality enhancement teams
worked satisfactorily in at
least 80% of the hospitals
supported by the subprojects
of both institutions
*   Innovative management
subprojects for MOH
implemented and evaluated
Component II. Health             *   Developed acceptable                                        *   Component I is
Delivery and Management              proposals for subprojects                                       being developed
Subprojects. Focus on linking  focusing on coverage
Subprojects. Focus on linking        extension, health care quality                                  as scheduled in
policy changes with the              extension and efficiency                                        the PAS.
investment needed to improve        improvements. Selection of
quality of health care and           proposals follow criteria
therefore restore public trust on    agreed at negotiations and
the institutions, to extend health   include among others: (a)
care coverage and to guarantee       Number of beneficiaries for
project, (b) Targeting to poor
financial sustainability of the      populations, (c) Investment
IHSS.                                strategy clearly linked to
project objectives to extend
coverage, improve quality and
obtain expected results in key
project indicators, (d) Estimate
of the financial sustainability
of the investment and proposed
specific mechanisms to ensure
sustainability, (e) Proposals to
implement innovative delivery
mechanisms: private or NGOs
as providers, IHSS as provider
to MOH, MOH as provider to
IHSS, (f) satisfactory
environmental criteria
following local regulation and
recommendations of the 1995
updated management waste
disposal study, (g) Definition
of a specific monitoring and
evaluation plan for the
subproject.



35
Component Ill. Project          *    PIU personnel fully
Management. Supports                 operational and functioning
Project Management.                  according to IDA standards.
*   Administrative and Financial
Agency fully operational
according to agreed terms of
reference.
Hierarchy of Objectives            Key Performance             Monitoring & Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Project Components I Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each component)  Project reports:           (from Components to
components:                                                                                  Outputs)
I. Technical Assistance for           US$8.75 million               *   Project progress         *   Satisfactory
Policy Design and                                                       reports                      project
Implementation                                                      *   PAS Program reviews          implementation.
*   Project's MIS            *    Intensive World
*   Supervision reports          Bank
monitoring and
evaluation of
activities
I. Health Delivery and               US$19.25 million              *   Project supervision and
Management subprojects                                                  activities reports
*   Project's MIS
III. Project Management and            US$3.0 million               *   Project supervision and
Evaluation                                                              activities reports



36
Annex 1
Attachment 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy
March 18, 2002
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Subject: Health & Social Security System Reform Project (PRSS)
Dear Sirs:
The proposed Health and Social Security Reform Project (PRSS) was prepared with the active
participation of the governmental and the Honduran Social Security Institute (IHSS) Board of Directors.
The main points of the reforms to be supported by the Project are summarized in the Policy Activity
Schedule (PAS). The contents of both the PAS and of the Project have been reviewed in detail and
agreed by the Honduran Government represented by the Finance and Health Ministries, the Ministry of
Labor and Social Security Ministry, IHSS and the International Association for Development (IDA).
As part of such process, we are presenting for your consideration this letter with the PAS
attached. The Policy activities reflected in the PAS are under the scope of a broader Honduran National
Health Strategy that will be developed during the next five years. Of special interest are those activities
that will support the achievement of short, medium and long-term goals in the health sector within the
framework of the Honduran Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP). Among those are improved
access, quality and equity in the provision of health services for the poorest sectors of the population,
consensus building for health and social security policy reform, improvements in the accreditation and
rehabilitation of the health care network, and improved allocation of inputs, equipment, and other
resources in order to guarantee the appropriate amount and quality of necessary inputs for the provision of
services.
The Government's Action Plan in Health for the period 2002-2006 has established eight
priorities: 1) the creation of "healthy municipalities"; 2) maternal and child health; 3) vector control; 4)
integral care for adolescents; 5)integral care for the elderly; 6) TB control; vii) STD and HIV/AIDS
prevention and control; and 8) reform of the health and social security sectors.



37
The Health and Social Security Sector Reform Program (PRSS)
The proposed Health and Social Security Reform Program (PRSS) addresses reforms across all
subsectors of the health system in Honduras, including the Ministry of Health, IHSS, and private
providers. It focuses on the reform of the health system in terns of improving the efficiency in the
allocation and use of resources, strengthening the financial sustainability of IHSS, improving local and
regional management capacity , strengthening the quality of health services, and searching for and
supporting innovations in managing health services. The Project has a special focus on maternal-child
health services, prevention and care of HIV/AIDS, and improving service access for poor people. The
main objectives of PRSS are to:
*  Extend and improve health service coverage, especially for the poorest populations;
*  Develop management capacity and improve quality standards in Ministry of Health and IHSS
health service providers;
*  Support the design of a regulatory framework for health services, at the same time as
strengthening the normnative capacity of the Ministry of Health;
* Improve the efficiency in the allocation of financial resources for health, strengthen the financial
sustainability of IHSS, modernize IHSS' organization and administration;
*  Implement innovative mechanisms to improve health service delivery, both for the Ministry of
Health and IHSS.
Main Activities of PRSS
The PRSS will assist the Government of Honduras in the implementation of an integrated strategy
for health and social security, where the public, private, and social security subsectors are the main actors.
The support will permit the advance of initiatives described in the attached PAS. The focus is on the
following areas:
Regulation: The project will support activities to improve the standards of quality in the
provision of health services and support the expansion of quality services. In addition, the project will
support the definition and implementation of norms and procedures for new forms of health service
delivery that include the private sector.
Financing: For the Ministry of Health, the policy actions aim to improve both its planning
capacity and its efficiency in the use of resources. For IHSS, the policy actions aim to assure financial
sustainability and improve institutional efficiency. For IHSS, there will be a financial clean up to help
assure the sustainability over time of different services.
Organization and Institutional Modernization: The project will support innovative
management arrangements for the Ministry of Health and IHSS, aimed at improving quality, efficiency,
and health service coverage. IHSS will consolidate its mission as an insurer with respect to risk coverage.
The Project will support the development of information systems in support of operational processes.
Provision and Purchase of Services. The policy actions look for improvements in quality and
efficiency through the development of contracting mechanisms among public private and IHSS



38
providers. As a consequence of this new approach it is also expected to expand health care coverage at
the national level.
Support for the Strategy of ilV/AEDS: among other things, the Project will support the design
and implementation of behavior change communication, training, strengthening of the national system of
epidemiological surveillance and blood banks, related to HIV/AIDS.
Policy Activity Schedule
The attached Policy Activity Schedule identifies key actions to be carried out in the next five years in
accordance with the priorities described. It is presented as an annex to this letter.
Sincerely yours,
Lic. William q  gWn
D4r
Dr. Manuel Antonio San                               Liise. Wilfa    g   Lang
Minister of Health by La,
bCz         itzela                                   Df.     ofHS
of      Frmand Social Security
Attachment: Policy Activity Schedule (see Annex 2.A)



39
Annex 2
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Detailed Project Description
1. Project development objective:
The proposed project will support the Republic of Honduras reform program aimed at extending and
improving health care coverage. This project will support the Government of Honduras in the
implementation of an integrated health reform strategy where the public, private and social security sub
sectors are major actors; it will provide technical assistance for the analytical work necessary for
important policy decisions and will support consensus building and demonstration effect experiences to
restore public confidence in the public and social security subsectors. The project will support the
ongoing efforts to modernize the Honduran Social Security Institute, demonstrated by the recent approval
by Congress of the Law amending the 1959 Social Security Law. Ultimately, the project will improve
access to health care services, especially to the low income population served today by the MOH that will
be increasingly insured by the IHSS, and it will develop the management capacity of health care providers
in both the IHSS and the MOH to improve service delivery and quality of care. The project will support
ongoing country efforts to achieve these goals, such as designing an appropriate regulatory framework
and strengthening the MOH's regulatory capacity, improving efficiency of public health budget
allocation, developing sustainable financing mechanisms for the IHSS and modernizing its organization
and administration, and finally implementing innovative mechanisms to improve health service delivery
in both the MOH and IHSS subsectors. While the project supports system-wide reforms, particular
attention will be given in investment subprojects to strengthening maternal-child health services and
HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and other health problems concentrated among the poorest segments of
the population.
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria is expected to finance some of Honduras'
HIV/AIDS program requirements during the project life. But the amount and timing still is not known.
So the HIV/AIDS focus of the project will be to better define the National HIV/AIDS Program and
finance gaps in the Program, using the project design approach of technical assistance and subprojects.
By Component:
The proposed project includes two main components to address the health sector goals set forth in the
previous section.
Component I. Health Policy Design and Implementation Component (estimated cost US$ 8.75
million)
Objective. The objective of this component is to strengthen and improve the MOH and the IHSS to
allow each institution to execute better their functions and roles within the health care system and
particularly in support of the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS). The strategies and instruments of the
component will focus on each institution's organizational structure and functional divisions, human
resource strategies, financing and regulatory framework and those changes that are required to improve
health policy formulation and execution.



40
Main Activities and Expenditure Categories. This component would provide financing to develop the
strategies, programs, and systems required to achieve the objectives set forth in the PAS (Annex 2A). In
summary, the project will support the following activities:
.  Support the implementation of MOH and IHSS organizational and institutional restructuring
processes.
.  Increase financial sustainability of IHSS and improve institutional efficiency, including a: (i)
quantitative assessment of government debt; (ii) definition of the structure of social security contributions
to guarantee long run financial sustainability of IHSS; (iii) separation of accounts by risk; and (iv)
information system for insured/beneficiaries, billing and collection.
*  Improve and develop more comprehensive health sector regulation and to strengthen MOH regulatory
capacity.
* Support improvements in financial management in IHSS and MOH that aim to improve the allocative
efficiency of MOH's budget and to develop prospective budget processes and local accountability under
MOF's financial improvement process.
*  This component also includes assistance to strengthen HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance systems and
improve HIV/AIDS screening in blood banks.
.  Develop instruments and monitoring systems to improve the quality of care and provider efficiency
through hospital improvement plans and the development of quality enhancement programs.
To obtain these results, the project will finance under Component I the following activities: a) local and
foreign technical assistance; b) integrated solutions for information systems, including software licenses;
c) medical equipment, supplies, and furniture d) training including seminars, workshops and study tours
in support of health policy development.
Component II. Health Delivery and Management Subprojects Component (estimated cost US$
19.25 million)
Objective. The primary aim of this component would be to establish a financing vehicle, which would
provide a clear linkage between the policy objectives identified in the PAS and implementation of
investments and innovative management changes executed through subprojects aimed at extending
coverage for IHSS and MOH and improving quality and efficiency in the sector. The evaluation of the
PAS would be carried out through three policy Program Reviews, the first review prior to Effectiveness
with two more scheduled approximately every 18 months. The focus of these reviews will be to assess
compliance with policy changes identified in the PAS.
IDA would have approved a set of subprojects submitted by the GOH and IHSS for Phase I prior to
effectiveness. For Phase II and III subprojects, IDA would have approved a set of subprojects submitted
by GOH and IHSS prior to PAS review. The subprojects will then be compiled into a Multi-Year
Investment Plan, accompanied by a detailed procurement plan (PAC) satisfactory to IDA. The IHSS and
MOH subprojects would be financed following satisfactory results in meeting IHSS and MOH
disbursement conditions in the PAS (Annex 2.A bis).
Main Activities and Expenditures Categories: The subprojects would support improvements in service
quality, access and coverage, and management improvements. All three phases would include some
subprojects that specifically supported maternal and child health improvements and HIV/AIDS
prevention and care. Included in WHV/AIDS prevention and care would be efforts to improve the
management and treatment of STIs in the MOH and IHSS, efforts to improve voluntary HIV/AIDS
testing in MOH, IHSS, and private facilities, efforts to reduce mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS
(excluding from said treatment the provision of anti-retroviral drugs by the project-the anti-retroviral



41
nevirapine is being donated to the Government of Honduras for mother-to-child transmission). The
subprojects could finance: (1) the development of contracting schemes for health and support services,
(2) rehabilitation of health centers, laboratory and hospital infrastructure, (3) medical and laboratory
equipment, spare parts, pharnaceuticals, and supplies, (5) furniture, (6) technical assistance, (7) training,
and (8) training materials. Pharmaceuticals will be a relatively small share of this component: no more
than $1 million of the $19.25 million. Contracts for health care and support services could be made with
private providers, including NGOs. Depending upon the needs, contracts could be for providing an
integrated package of basic services, or for more narrowly defined activities, such as maternal/child health
services or HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities to defined population groups. Contracts could also
be made for non-medical support services such as hospital laundry, security, and cleaning services.
Given the pressing need to demonstrate improvements in health services following the increase in social
security contributions, Phase I ($5.5 million) would emphasize rapid improvements to meet the most
pressing needs in services. Phase I subprojects would be approved by IDA prior to Effectiveness. For
Phase I, the indicative allocation would be US$3.75 million for urgent improvements in IHSS services,
and US$1.75 million for similar improvements in MOH services. The indicative allocations in Phase II
($10.0 total) are US$3.5 million for IHSS and US$6.5 million for MOH, and in Phase IH ($3.75 million
total) are US$1.65 million for IHSS and US$2.1 million for MOH. Phase II and III Subprojects would be
also selected following criteria set out in the Operational Manual.
Oversight of the subprojects selection process would be the responsibility of an Inter-Institutional Reform
Committee (IRC) established as a governance mechanism in the Project (see Institutional Arrangements).
It will be agreed that, prior to the second and third program reviews, the government would carry out a
selection process to determine which subprojects best meet the established criteria related to inter link
with project objectives. Phase II and III subprojects (Phase I will not follow this procedure as Phase I
subprojects would have already been approved prior to effectiveness) would be ranked and financed up to
the resource limit available for the respective program review, i.e. US$10 million and US$3.75 million,
respectively. The financing of the subprojects would remain linked to the compliance with the indicators
in the program review. At the same time, the program review would be carried out with independent
evaluations for IHSS and MOH, respectively
PAS Program Reviews
The following paragraphs highlight the key aspects of each of the program reviews associated with the
PAS and outline the distribution of funds to finance projects for insured and non-insured population. PAS
Program Reviews will be independent by institution. The IHSS subprojects would be financed following
satisfactory approval of IHSS disbursement conditions. Similarly MOH subprojects would be financed
following approval of MOH disbursement conditions. Thus unsuccessful achievement of disbursement
conditions by one of the institutions would not affect the financial resources flow for subprojects
proposed by the other institution.
A. First Program Review for Phase I investments. This program review will be carried out prior to
Effectiveness and will focus on the following disbursement condition The borrower shall approve and
present to IHSS a debt payment scheme, including a detailed payment schedule of accumulated debt to
IHSS as of December 31, 2001; and IHSS should present an approved investment plan for the use of these
resource, including a schedule for the repayment of IHSS internal debt (health/pensions) (see Annex 2A
bis).



42
The first program review would make funds available to provide financing for subprojects that would
allow the MOH and IHSS to demonstrate immediate improvements in quality, and activities to extend
access and introduce innovation, with a clear focus on improving quality standards for maternal and child
health in critical areas.
The areas to be financed by the first allocation of resources for immediate quality improvement include
strengthening comprehensive essential obstetric care equipment for IHSS hospitals and MOH facilities
and providing support for civil works activities to rehabilitate damaged infrastructure and/or repair (spare
parts) equipment in IHSS and MOH hospitals.
B. Second Program Review for Phase II investments. Satisfactory results of the disbursement conditions in
the Second Program Review would allow access to financing for Phase II subprojects. Among all policy
conditions to be evaluated under the Second PAS Program Review, disbursement conditions for the
second set of subprojects are: MOH has issued a Ministerial Resolution established standards of care for
the licensing of public and private primary health care facilities; at least ten percent (10%) of the public
and private primary health care facilities, currently registered in MOH's registry of primary health care
facilities, have been licensed by MOH in accordance with the standards of care established by MOH; at
least three (3) hospitals under the jurisdiction of MOH are implementing a budget evaluation and
monitoring system consistent with the SIAFI System; at least three (3) new contracts for assisting MOH
in the provision of health services have been executed between: MOH and IHSS and/or MOH and health
services providers; the GOH makes payment contributions to IHSS to reduce its debt with IHSS in
respect of its mandatory contributions to IHSS in accordance with the detailed payment schedule of
accumulated debt mentioned in a) above; the Borrower includes its current contribution to IHSS in the
National Budget; and IHSS is complying with the provision of Article 58 of the Social Security Law with
respect to separate accounting for its health insurance and pension funds; IHSS is in compliance with its
payment schedule for its internal debt mentioned in a) above; IHSS has made available to the public
audited financial statements; and finally, at least three (3) new contracts for assisting IHSS in the
provision of health services have been executed either between: IHSS and MOH, and/or IHSS and private
health service providers. (See Annex 2A bis).
The investment plans will be separated into subprojects that support IHSS beneficiaries and subprojects
that support the MOH population. Projects can support MOH, IHSS or private/NGOs providing services
to either of these populations. The areas to be financed under the subprojects will focus on projects that
support essential supplies that will be provided to the IHSS and MOH hospitals and clinics; purchase of
new equipment for primary care clinics and emergency care at the hospital level in those areas where an
MOH and IHSS partnership for health care provision already exists; training for health professionals to
improve quality standards; implementation of integrated care models for the extension of coverage,
including pilot contracting schemes to extend coverage of IHSS health insurance to insured population;
development of integrated primary care systems by MOH to deliver primary care to non-insured
populations; and management support to MOH and IHSS hospitals to implement alternative management
schemes in those MOH hospitals contracted by IHSS.
C      Third Program Review for Phase III investments. The final program review would ensure
continuity of the reform actions developed under the previous two reviews. Key policy actions
considered as disbursement conditions for the third set of Subprojects are: The MOH subprojects
supported under Phase I and II that have the goal of expanding coverage have shown an increase of at
least fifty percent in matemal-child health services. The increase will be in key services indicated the
subproject proposal and will have occurred over the period of the subproject's implementation; The GOH
continues with the payment contributions to IHSS to reduce its debt with IHSS in respect of its mandatory
contributions to IHSS in accordance with the repayment schedule agreed mentioned in A. above; IHSS



J
43
makes payments from its health insurance fund to its pension fund in accordance with the payment
schedule as mentioned in A. above; IHSS increases health insurance coverage to insured employees from
450,000 to at least 600,000 insured employees; the Borrower includes its current contributions to IHSS in
the National Budget; and finally at least ten (10) new contracts for assisting IHSS in the provision of
health services have been executed either between: (a) IHSS and MOH; and/or (b) IHSS and other public
or private entities (see Annex 2A bis).
The areas to be financed under the subprojects will focus, among others, on projects that support the
continuing expansion of integrated care models for the extension of coverage, including: pilot contracting
schemes to extend coverage of IHSS health insurance to insured population; development of integrated
primary care systems by MOH to deliver primary care to non-insured populations; and management
support to MOH and IHSS hospitals to implement alternative management schemes in those MOH
hospitals contracted by IHSS.
Component Im. Project Management Component (estimated US$3 million)
Objective. This component will support an ongoing monitoring and evaluation system that will provide
for a comprehensive evaluation of the project's results. Support would also be provided by the proposed
project for the management and supervision of the project through the Project Implementation Unit.
Main Activities and Expenditure Categories. This component will focus on Project Administration.
The component will finance computing and office equipment and furniture, vehicles for supervision,
technical assistance of four long-term technical consultants, and two specialized advisors (one each for
MOH and IHSS) in the PIU, technical assistance for the strengthening of the PIU operational capacity,
project audits, annual procurement assessments, transportation and per diem of trainers and trainees,
printing services of materials, media releases, and incremental operational costs to support the operation
of the technical unit in the PIU. The GOH has agreed to finance the cost of the fee of the Management
Agent that is proposed to assume the responsibility for the operation of the fnancial-administrative area
of the PIU. UNDP has been selected by the GOH as the MA. Financial and procurement capacity
assessments of UNDP are in process. The PIU General Coordinator will be responsible to establish and
maintain liaison with IHSS and MOH advisors during the execution of the project ensuring that the PIU
provide the necessary support to achieve development objectives agreed for the project. The PIU's
technical unit will also have an important role in the coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities of
both the project, as a whole, and the individual subprojects financed under the multi-year investment
plans.



44
Annex 2.A
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Policy Activity Schedules (IHSS and MOH)
POLICY ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
(actions in italics are conditions or effectiveness ordisbursements (see Annex 2A.bis))
Area              Objective              First Program Review                Second Program Review                 Third Program Review
Prior to Effectiveness -  -      No Later than 18 months after        No Later than 36 months after
(USS5.5 million)              Effectiveness (USS10.0 million)      Effecthieness (USS3.75 million)
MOH Actions
1. Regulation    1. To improve and      a. MOH establishes quality         a. MOH has issued a Ministerial        a. At least thirty percent ( 30%) of
develop more           standards for health care provision of  Resolution establishing standards of care  public and private primary care
comprehensive health   a basic PHC package of services,  for the licensing of public and private  facilities, currently registered in
sector regulation and  including a definition of          primary health care facilities. At least  MOH's registry of primary health
to strengthen MOH      interventions and protocols to be  ten percent (10%) of the public and    care facilities have been licensed by
regulatory capacity.   used in the delivery of services.  private primary health care facilities,  MOH in accordance with the
These standards are published in a  currently registered in MOH's registry of  standards of care established by
Ministerial Resolution.            primary health care facilities, have been  MOH and published in the
licensed by MOH in accordance with the  corresponding Ministerial
b. The MOH has established         standards of care established by MOH   Resolution.
standards of care for licensing of  and published in the Ministerial
primary health care establishments.'  Resolution, referred to above.
b. MOH has established a regulatory
framework, if necessary, to permit
contracting of health and support
services. The framework should regulate
the capability of MOH to sell and
purchase services from others2
Method of verification: (i) "Reglamento de Licencias Sanitarias de establecimientos de salud", (ii) Technical Manuals in contracting out for health and support services and (iii)
Additional regulatory framework approved by the GOH.
2 Method of verification: (i) "Ley de Contrataci6n del Estado", (ii) "Codigo de Salud", (iii) Technical Manuals in contracting out of health and support services and (iv)
Additional regulatory framework approved by the GOH



45
POLICY ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
(actions in italics are conditions of effectiveness or disbursements (see Annex 2A.bis))
Area            - Objective            First Program Review'            Second Program Review               Third Program Review
Ptior to Effectiveness         No Later than 18 months after      No Later than 36 months after
-    (US$5.5million)             Effectiveness (US$10.0 million)     Effectiveness (US$3.75 million)
2. MOH          1. To improve resource  a. New MOH/MOF budget process  a. At least three MOH health regions  a. All health regions using new
Financing       allocation efficiency  manual approved and training is  using new SIAFI/SIGAF procedures    budgetary procedures according
and equity of MOH     underway for implementation of   according with budget process manual  with budget process manual
budget through the    SIAFI/SIGAF in MOH.              approved by MOH/MOF, and are         approved by MOH/MOF, and are
implementation of                                      preparing an annual operational plan  preparing an annual operational
MOHIMOF program       b. Budget categories at the MOH are  (POA) at the local level as the basis for  plan (POA) at the local level as the
budgeting system and  consistent with MOF requirements  budget proposal.                    basis for budget proposal.
MOFfinancial          (SIAFI/SIGAF) (Categoria de
improvement process.  presupuesto por programas -o     b. At least three (3) hospitals under the
programatica)                   jurisdiction of MOH are implementing a
budget evaluation and monitoring system
complementary to the SIAFI system.
3. Health Care  1. To improve        a. Detailed Hospital improvement  a. Innovative hospital management    a. Innovative hospital management
Service         efficiency and       plans are approved by MOH for at  subprojects are approved for least one  subprojects approved under the
Purchase &      effectiveness through  least two regional and one district  district hospital (hospital de area) The  second program review are evaluated
Provision       changes in MOH       hospital (hospital de area) in    innovative management scheme should  and at least three new MOH
hospital management   geographic areas where IHSS has the  include at least two of the following  subprojects are developed to meet the
potential to expand coverage.    elements: (a) Strategies to improve  requirements defined in the second
administrative and support services  program review conditions. Thus the
(laundry, catering, security, maintenance,  innovative management scheme
etc.; (b) Strategies to improve medical  should include at least two of the
and or pharmaceutical management     following elements: (a) Strategies to
systems; (c) execution of management  improve administrative and support
contracts or "convenios de co-gesti6n"  services (laundry, catering, security,
with performance indicators; and (d)  maintenance, etc.); (b) Strategies to
development of new payment           improve medical and or
mechanisms that link production of health  pharmaceutical management
services with hospital budget.       systems; (c) execution of
management contracts or "convenios
de co-gesti6n" with performance
indicators; and (d) development of
new payment mechanisms that link
production of health services with
hospital budget.



46
POLICY ACTIVITY SCHEDULE                                          -
(actions in italics are conditions ofeffectiveness or disbursements (see Annex 2A.bis))
Objective             First Program Review -           Second Program Review           -   Third Program Review
Prior to Effectiveness .       No Later than 18 months after     No Later than 36 months after
(US$5.5 million)  .        - Effectiveness (US$10.0 million)   Effectiveness (US$3.75 million)
2. To promote sector                                  a. A basic framework for contracts for  a The MOH subprojects supported
integration and to                                    health service provision is specified and  under Phase I and ll that have the
improve health service                                agreed by MOH and IHSS, MOH and     goal of expanding coverage have
delivery under                                        other parties.                      shown an increase of at least fifty
public/private mix                                                                         percent in maternal-child health
provision schemes                                     b. At least three (3) new contracts for  services. The increase will be in
assisting MOH in the provision of health  key services indicated the subproject
services(purchase or sale) have been  proposal and will have occurred over
executed between: (a) MOH and IHSS;  the period of the subproject 's
and/or (b) MOH and private health   implementation.
service providers.
3. To improve quality                                 a. Quality enhancement teams are     a. Quality enhancement teams are
of care through the                                   working in at least 50% of the hospitals  working in at least 80 percent of the
development and                                       supported by the MOH subprojects 1.  hospitals supported by MOH
implementation of                                                                          subprojects I and II.
continuous quality
improvement programs



47
POLICY ACTIVITY SCHEDULE               -
(actions in italics are conditions of effectiveness or disbursements (see Annex 2A.bis))
Area             Objective            First Program Review-             Second Program Review              Third Program Review
Prior to Eifectiveness         No Later than 18 months after     No Later than 36 months after
(US$5.5 million)            Effectiveness (US$10.0 million)    Effectiveness (US$3.75 million)
IHSS Actions
1. IHSS         1. To develop                                        a. The Borrower has made payment     a. The Borrower has made payment
Financing       mechanisms to make   a. The borrower has approved and  contributions to IHSS to reduce its debt  contributions to IHSS to reduce its
the IHSS a financially  furnished to IHSS a debt payment  with IHSS in respect of its mandatory  debt with IHSS in respect of its
sustainable institution,  scheme, including a detailed  contributions to IHSS pursuant to Decree  mandatory contributions to IHSS
including            payment schedule ofaccumulated   No. 140-1959, in accordance with the  pursuant to Decree No. 140-1959, in
strengthening IHSS   debt as of December 31, 2001; and  repayment schedule agreed between IHSS  accordance with the repayment
revenue collection and  IHSS should present an approved  and the borrower as mentioned in the first schedule agreed between IHSS and
extending coverage.  plan for the use of these resources,  phase.                          the borrower as mentioned in the
including a schedule for the                                         first phase.
repayment of IHSS accumulated    b. IHSS has made payments from its  b IHSS has made paymentfrom its
internal debt (healthlpensions) as of  health insurance fund to its pension fund  b   Insura d  to its
March 31, 2002.                  (internal debt) in accordance with the  health insurance fund to its pension
payment schedule as mentioned in the  fund in accordance with the
b. The borrower shall have      first phase.                         payment schedule mentioned in the
approved the legal and regulatory                                    first phase.
instruments required to establish  c. IHSS shall have increased health
new contribution ceilings for IHSS,  insurance coverage from 376,000  c. IHSS has increased health
including formal agreement and  insured employees to at least 450,000  insurance coverage to insured
approval by the IHSS Board.     insured employees (year 2000 base).  employees from 450,000 to at least
600,000 insured employees. (year
d. IHSS is complying with the provision  2000 base).
of Article 55 (A and B) of Decree No
140-1959.                           d The Borrower has included in its
e. The Borrower has included in its  annual budget the amount of
annual budget the amount of mandatory  mandatory contributions that the
contributions that the Borrower is   Borrower is required to pay to IHSS
required to pay to IHSS pursuant to  pursuant to Decree No. 140-1959.
Decree No. 140-1959.



48
POLICY ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
(actions in italics are-conditions of effectiveness or disbursements (see Annex 2A.bis))
Area             Objective             First Program Review              Second Program Review              Third Program Review
Prior to Effectiveness         No Later than 18 months after      No Later than 36 months after
(US$5.5 million)             Effectiveness (US$10.0 million)    Effectiveness (US$3.75 million)
2. Institutional  1. To modernize the  a. IHSS Board approves a time   a (i) IHSS is complying with the     a. IHSS Board shall have approved
Modernization   organizational       bound plan for modemization of the  provision of Decree No. 140-1959 with  the early retirement program
of the IHSS     structure of the IHSS,  Institute.                    respect to separate accountingfor its  included in the modernization plan to
Organization   improving management                                    health insurance andpensionfunds; and  be approved in the first program
capacity and shifting                                  (ii) IHSS has made available to the  review.
the organizational                                     public auditedfinancial statements.
structure to reflect
IHSS' main business
products (according to
risk coverage).
3. Health Care  1. To improve         a. Hospital improvement plan is  a. Innovative hospital management    a. Innovative hospital management
Delivery        efficiency and       approved by the IHSS Board for the  scheme is approved by the IHSS Board  subprojects approved under the
effectiveness through  Hospital de Especialidades This plan  to be implemented through a subproject  second program review are evaluated
changes in IHSS       would be linked to MCH targets and  for at least one IHSS facility. The  and at least three new I HSS
hospital management.  other performance targets established  innovative management scheme should  subprojects are developed to meet the
by the project and to improving  include at least two of the following  requirements defined in the second
access.                          elements: (a) budget flexibility to manage  program review conditions. Thus the
finances; (b) execution of management  innovative management scheme
contracts with performance indicators; (c)  should include at least two of the
flexibility to contract and dismiss  following elements: (a) budget
employees; and (d) development of new  flexibility to manage finances; (b)
payment mechanisms that link production  execution of management contracts
of health services with hospital budget.  with performance indicators; (c)
flexibility to contract and dismiss
employees; and (d) development of
new payment mechanisms that link
production with hospital budget.
2. To promote sector                                   a. At least three (3) new contracts for  a. At least ten (10) new contracts for
integration and to                                     assisting IHSS in the provision of health  assisting IHSS in the provision of
improve health service                                 services have been executed either   health services have been executed
delivery under                                         between: (a) IHSS and MOH; andlor (b)  either between: (a) IHSS and MOH;
public/private mix                                     IHSS and private health service providers  and/or (b) IHSS and private health
provision schemes.                                                                          service providers.



49
POLICY ACTIVITY SCHEDULE
(actions in italics are conditions of effectiveness or disbursements (see Annex 2A.bis))
Area             Objective             First Program Review'             Second Program Review              Third Program Review
Prior to Effectiveness         No Later than 18 months after      No Later than 36 months after
(US$5.5 million)             Effectiveness (US$10.0 million)    Effectiveness (US$3.75 million)
3. To improve quality                                  a. Quality enhancement teams are     a. Quality enhancement teams are
of care through the                                    working at the Hospital de Especialidades  working in at least 80 percent of the
development and                                        of IHSS.                             hospitals supported by IHSS
implementation of                                                                           Subprojects I and II.
continuous quality
improvement
programs.



50
Annex 2.A. bis.
Policy Conditions that serve as Disbursement conditions. MOH and IHSS
MOH                   Effectiveness Conditions               Disbursement Conditions                   Disbursement Conditions
MOH Subprojects II                       MOH Subprojects III
1. Regulation                                             *  MOH has issued a Ministerial
Resolution establishing standards of
care for the licensing of public and
private primary health care facilities.
At least ten percent (10%) of the public
and private primary health care
facilities, currently registered in
MOH's registry of primary health care
facilities, have been licensed by MOH
in accordance with the standards of
care established by MOH and
published in the Ministerial Resolution,
____________________________________   referred   to   above.
2. Financing                                              *   At least three (3) hospitals under the
jurisdiction of MOH are implementing
a budget evaluation and monitoring
system consistent with the SIAFI
system.
3. Health Care                                            *   At least three (3) new contracts for      unThe MOH subprojects supported
Service                                                       assisting MOH in the provision of         goal of expanding coverage have
Purchase &                                                    health services have been executed         shown an increase of at least fifty
Provision                                                     between: (a) MOH and IHSS; and/or         percent in maternal-child health
(b) MOH and private health service         services. The increase will be in key
providers.                                 services indicated the subproject
proposal and will have occurred
over the period of the subproject's
implementation.



51
IHSS                  Effectiveness                Disbursement Conditions                        Disbursement Conditions
Conditions                     IHSS Subprojects II                           IHSS Subprojects III
*   The borrower has       *  The Borrower has made payment              *  The Borrower has made payment
1. Financing          approved and              contributions to IHSS to reduce its debt      contributions to IHSS to reduce its debt with
furnished to IHSS a        with IHSS in respect of its mandatory         IHSS in respect of its mandatory contributions
debt payment               contributions to IHSS pursuant to Decree      to IHSS pursuant to Decree No. 140-1959, in
scheme, including a        No. 140-1959, in accordance with the          accordance with the repayment schedule
detailed payment           repayment schedule agreed between IHSS        agreed between IHSS and the borrower as
schedule of                and the borrower as mentioned in the first    mentioned in the first phase.
accumulated debt as        phase.
of December 31,                                                      *   IHSS has made payment from its health
2001; and IHSS         *   IHSS has made payments from its health       insurance fund to its pension fund in
should present an         insurance fund to its pension fund (internal   accordance with the payment schedule
approved plan for          debt) in accordance with the payment          mentioned in the first phase.
the use of these           schedule as mentioned in the first phase.  *  IHSS has increased health insurance
resources, including
a schedule for the     *   The Borrower has included in its annual       coverage to insured employees from 450,000
repayment of IHSS          budget the amount of mandatory                insured employees to at least 600,000 insured
accumulated internal       contributions that the Borrower is required   employees.
debt (health /             to pay to IHSS pursuant to Decree No.         The Borrower has included in its annual
pensions) as of            140-1959.                                     budget the amount of mandatory
March 31, 2002.                                                          contributions that the Borrower is required to
pay to IHSS pursuant to Decree No. 140-
1959.
2. Institutional                             *   (i) IHSS is complying with the provision of
Modernization                                    Decree No. 140/1959 with respect to
separate accounting for its health insurance
and pension funds; and (ii) IHSS has made
available to the public audited financial
statements.
3. Health Care                               *   At least three (3) new contracts for      *   At least ten (10) new contracts for assisting
delivery                                        assisting IHSS in the provision of health     IHSS in the provision of health services have
services have been executed either            been executed either between: (a) IHSS and
between: (a) IHSS and MOH; and/or (b)         MOH; and/or (b) IHSS and private health
IHSS and private health service providers.    service providers.



52
Annex 2.B
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Technical Assistance Plan
Objective of Technical Assistance to be       Activities supported by Credit                 Timing
Area/Activity                      provided
under PAS
MOH
ACTIVITIES
1. Regulation                                                1. I Design and implementation of an information  Year I
system to strengthen the regulatory capacity of MOH.
1.2. TA to MOH to support the implementation of  Year I
licensing, accreditation and other regulatory functions.
1.3. Review of existing legal framework and design of  Year I
necessary changes to allow contracting of health
services.
1.4 TA, training and operational support to strengthen  Year 1-2
MOH's regulatory capacity.
2. MOH Financing                                            2.1 TA for the implementation of new budgetary   Year 1-4
mechanisms, information systems and related
processes.
2.2 TA for the Implementation of budget monitoring  Year 1-4
and evaluation system in MOH hospitals.
3. MOH Health Care                                           3.1 Technical assistance to implement a continued  Year 1-3
Service Purchase and                                        quality improvement program in primary care facilities
provision                                                    and selected hospitals.
3.2 Implementation of management improvement in  Year 1-4
selected primary care facilities and hospitals.
3.3 TA to design of technical and contractual    Year 1-2
specifications related to the purchase of services to and
from MOH.
3.4 Development of innovative subprojects designed  Year 1-2



53
to extend coverage, improve quality and strengthen
hospital management, including contracting out
HIV/AIDS prevention and care to NGOs.
4. Support                                                4.1 Design and implementation of IEC campaign.  Year 1-2
HIV/AIDS
Activities.                                               4.2 Technical assistance to strengthen the national  Year 1-3
surveillance system for HIV/AIDS.
4.3 Technical assistance to strengthen screening for  Year 1-3
infectious disease, including HIV/AIDS in blood banks
5. Monitoring and                                         5.1 T. A. for the design and implementation of: a  Year 1- 4
Evaluation                                                monitoring and evaluation system for Project activities
under the responsibility of MOH.
5.2 T. A. for the design and carry out of a baseline  Year 1- 4
study to collect data from health facility surveys of
MOH's primary health care facilities and hospitals.
6. Information                                            6.1 T.A. for the design and implementation of: an  Year 1-4
Education and                                             MOH program for purposes of informing and
Communication                                             educating the population with respect to the contents of
Programs                                                  the Project activities under its responsibility and their
benefits.
7. Indigenous people                                      7.1 T.A. to tabulate data obtained in the community  Year 1-2
health activities                                         mapping plans of indigenous peoples (including ethnic
minorities) for purposes of updating information with
respect to, inter alia, constraints that said groups of
people faced concerning access to health services, local
knowledge on medical treatment of diseases and/or
sexually transmitted infections.
7.2. Training on capacity building for central level staff Year 1-4
to deal with different aspects related with indigenous
people.
8. Environmental                                          8.1 Update of Health Care Waste management study  Year I
Activities                                                done in 1995.



54
Area/Activity     Objective of Technical Assistance to be  Activities supported by Credit           Timing
under PAS                    provided
IHSS                                                 --
ACTIVITIES
1. IHSS Financing  1. To alleviate IHSS financial crisis and to  1.1 Actuarial studies to improve financial  Over 4 years
develop mechanisms to make the IHSS a  planning in IHSS and strengthen the IHSS
financially sustainable institution, including financial situation
strengthening IHSS revenue collection and
extending coverage.                  1.2 Technical Assistance (TA) for the design  Year 1-3
and development of improved administrative
and financial management information systems
in IHSS. Support for computers, software and
training for staff.
1.3 Design and implementation of information  After year 2, for 3
system for core social security functions,  years
including the registry of affiliates, billing, and
payments
1.4 Design and implementation of information  After year I, for 3
system to link IHSS collections at national  years
banks with IHSS central offices.
2. IHSS           1. To modernize the organizational   2.1 TA to IHSS for the development of   Year 1-3
Institutional    structure of the IHSS, improving     innovative subprojects designed to strengthen
modernization and  management capacity and shifting the  hospital management
organization      organizational structure to reflect IHSS'
main business products (according to risk  2.2 TA to IHSS for the design and  Year 2-4
coverage)                            implementation of a procurement system that
includes organizational specifications, contract
design and the development of monitoring and
evaluation instruments.
2.3 TA to design and implement a HHRR    Year I



55
administrative system
2.4 TA and training for the design and      Year I
implementation of an action plan to modernize
the IHSS Board of Directors.
3. Health Care     3.1. To improve efficiency and effectiveness 3.1.1 TA to develop innovative subprojects  Year 1-4
Delivery           through changes in IHSS hospital        designed to extend coverage, improve quality
management and to promote sector        and strengthen hospital management
integration and to improve health service
delivery under public/private mix provision
schemes.
3.2. To improve quality of care through the 3.2.1 Technical assistance to implement  Year 1-4
development and implementation of       hospital improvements and continued programs
continuous quality improvement programs  to improve quality in selected hospitals.
4. Monitoring and                                          4. 1. Technical assistance for the design and  Year 1-4
Evaluation                                                 implementation of a monitoring and evaluation
system for Project activities under the responsibility
of IHSS.
4.2. Technical assistance for the design and carry out Year I
of a baseline study to collect data from health facility
surveys of IHSS' primary health care facilities and
hospitals
5. Infornation,                                            5. 1. T. A for the design and implementation of: an  Year 1-4
Education and                                              IHSS program for purposes of inforning and
communication                                              educating the population with respect to the contents
Programs                                                   of the Project activities under its responsibility and
their benefits.



56
Annex 2.C
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Social Assessment and Health Issues Among Indigenous Peoples
(This is a summary of the Social Assessment. The full report is available in the Project File)
Introduction
Honduras has been the focus of several participatory studies of the causes and of poverty and strategies aimed at
mitigating its impact. The recently finalized Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) has outlined many of the
challenges and potential solutions, and provided Honduras with a road map for accomplishing its objectives.
The PRSP consultation processes recommended the health sector be a top government priority and called for
reorganization of the current system, divided between the MOH and the IHSS. To date, however, the health
system has shown to be costly and ineffective at delivering services to poor people, particularly in rural areas,
and to ethnic minorities. Given the current challenges, the project under the framework of an Indigenous People
Development Plan (Table I) already agreed with the GOH will finance (i) Technical assistance to tabulate data
obtained from community mapping plans of indigenous an African descents communities and (ii) capacity
building for staff at central level to deal with issues specifically related to indigenous people's health.. The goal
is to better understand the needs of these groups, and thus create a health strategy that addresses issues of access
and quality as well as cultural concerns.
Background of Previous Social Assessments
Indigenous peoples and descendents of African slaves are recognized as the poorest of all poor in Central
America and studies have been conducted to understand both the roots of their poverty and social exclusion and
to design sustainable policies. The World Bank has contributed to these efforts by undertaking the Honduras
Indigenous Peoples Profile, a project nearing the final stages of completion. Both the PRSP and the Indigenous
Peoples Profile provide the proposed project with important insights into strategies to reach poor people and
indigenous peoples within a framework that is socially and financially sustainable. In addition, the social
assessment for the Honduras Sustainable Tourism Project provides information about indigenous and black
communities in the Atlantic Coast Region, with particular emphasis on the impact of HIV/AIDS. Together, these
documents are the basis for a social evaluation of the proposed project at the design phases. Additionally, the
current project draws on studies by Cristina Torres for PAHO on indigenous peoples health in Latin America
(Ethnicity and Health: Another Perspective Towards Equity). All documents are in the Project File.
Brief Country Background
Honduras is one of the poorest countries in the region - according to the PRSP, 57 percent of households in
urban areas and 75 percent of households in rural areas are below the poverty line, with extreme poverty
affecting 37 percent of urban households and 65 percent of rural households. With education, access to land,
environment, violence and gender, health has been a major concern during the PRSP consultation.
Health Status and Population. The Honduran population is young and rapidly urbanizing. About 42 percent of
the Honduran population are under 15. Although the total fertility rated declined from 5.4 to 4.3 from 1988 to
1997, it remains higher than the Latin American average. In 1997, the average age of marriage for Honduran
women was 22 years. In rural areas, the completed fertility by age 19 in rural areas was 0.8 in the mid 1990s.
Internal and international migration remains high. Indeed, as a combined result of migration and fertility patterns,



57
the urban population growth rate has exceeded the Latin American average of 2.2 percent; more than half of the
population of Honduras are currently urban dwellers (WDI 1999). Honduras is experiencing an epidemiological
transition from a pattern of high early mortality due to infectious disease to one of longer life expectancy and the
attendant morbidity associated with chronic diseases. This transition has put greater pressure on the health care
system.
Health Issues Among Indigenous Peoples
There are nine different indigenous groups in Honduras, accounting for about half a million individuals.
Available data do not allow for differentiating between the poverty concerns of indigenous peoples from poverty
among non-indigenous peoples. Data are sparse on the health issues of indigenous and African descendents in
Honduras. As noted in the PRSP, several partial studies suggest that ethnicity is associated with higher risk of ill
health and that poverty is more prevalent in areas where there is a greater concentration of indigenous people.
Several elements account for the increased risk of poor health faced by indigenous peoples and black
communities: lack of land security, and lack of access to basic services (water, roads, education, electricity,
sanitation, health services).
Despite the lack of complete data sets, evidence from those studies that have been completed indicate that the
main obstacles faced by the indigenous population in Honduras are similar to those of similar populations in
other Latin American countries:
/ Geographical, language and cost barriers.
V Different and sometimes conflicting belief systems about the causes and treatment of ill health and care-
seeking behavior.
The Honduras Indigenous Peoples Profile suggests that the main ailments faced by the indigenous population do
not differ from those experienced by the very poor except for their severity. This is particularly acute in the
cases of malnutrition and respiratory diseases.
The 2000 social assessment for the Sustainable Tourism Project, based on a survey with sample size of 427
individuals stressed the heterogeneity of what is commonly understood as the indigenous population but also the
heterogeneity of their health status. The study has shown:
/ The main health problems reported by respondents are considered to be (in order of importance) respiratory
infections, parasitic infections and HIV/AIDS. Less common are mental disorders, occupational accidents,
malaria and dengue.
/  Among those surveyed there is a good access to the mass media by television and radio which potentially can
be a source of information on health. 
v  Only half of those surveyed had been reached by HIV/AIDS campaigns. The other half apparently remained
at the margin of efforts to reach the population with information about HIV/AIDS-one of the most critical
health problems on the North Coast. (The massive campaigns consist of talks in primary and secondary
schools and the health centers.)
Education is associated with a more accurate assessment of health risks/challenges. For example, the average
person who recognizes HIV/AIDS as a main health problem has more than 12 years of schooling.



58
Table 1. Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)
Strategy for Reaching Indigenous Peoples and African Descendents
Scope           The project covers the entire country. Subprojects to be financed as grants under
Component 2: Subprojects are expected to be implemented in some of the poorest
areas. There are eight groups of indigenous peoples and African descendents who
could be potential beneficiaries of these subprojects: Lencas, Tolupanes, Chortis, Pech,
Tawahkas, Misquitos, and Garifunas. The size of these groups is estimated to be about
0.7 million individuals, representing about 15 percent of the Honduran population.
Legal           Articles 172, 173 and 346 of the 1982 Constitution recognize the legal existence of
framework       indigenous peoples and the right of each of their communities to live and organize
according to their culture and norms. Article 172 recognizes the anthropological,
archeological, historical and artistic heritage of the country as part of the wealth of the
entire nation. ("Toda la riqueza antropol6gica, arqueol6gica, hist6rica y artistica de
Honduras forma parte del patrimonio cultural de la naci6n). Article 173 establishes as
a duty of the State the protection of the native culture ("El Estado preservari y
estimulara las culturas nativas, asi como las genuinas expresiones del folklore nacional,
artes y las artesanias".) Finally, Article 346 recognizes that indigenous communities
have the right to have their interests protected, including their access to land ("Es deber
del estado dictar medidas de protecci6n de los derechos e intereses de las comunidades
indigenas existentes en el pais, especialmente de las tierras y bosques donde estuvieran
asentadas.") In 1994, the Honduran Government ratified Convention 169 of the
International Labor Office on Indigenous Peoples and Tribal Populations.
Baseline data.  The Indigenous Profiles have been the first source of information to systematically
identify the areas populated by indigenous peoples and African descendent
communities, their social structure, sources of income, social capital, values and
expectations regarding health3. The Profiles are based upon information gathering from
workshops and focus groups undertaken with all ethnic groups, including
representatives of indigenous and African descendent major organizations. In addition,
the 2000 Socio-Ethnographic Survey provides infonnation on the health status of
indigenous and African descendent population living in coastal areas. The survey,
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism, interviewed 427 individuals.
Finally, during project implementation, as part of the M&E system, specific indicators
will be developed to include data for unexpected needs for adaptations of subprojects
and for innovative approaches to delivering health services to these communities.
Land Tenure     The Indigenous Peoples Profile confirms that land tenure is a major issue for
indigenous peoples. The IDA is supporting the Government in addressing land issues
in Honduras through the Coastal Tourism Project.
Consultations   During the last few years, the Government has undertaken three important initiatives in
which indigenous peoples were consulted on health issues. First, the Indigenous
Peoples Profiles (undertaken from 1990 to 2000) organized participatory workshops
and interviews with all major organizations in all ethnic regions and with
representatives of all eight groups. Second, for the Sustainable Coastal Tourism
Project, the Ministry of Tourism has consulted Pechs, Islanders, Misquitos and
Garifunas on their health status through twelve focus groups with community leaders,
small entrepreneurs, and non-governmental organizations. The 2001 PRSP consulted
3This follows the example of the Mexico Biological Mesoamerican Biological Corridor where the Profiles have also been
the main baseline source of information for the Indigenous Peoples Strategy Matrix.



59
with ethnic organizations about the major issues related confronting poverty in the
country, including health. Finally the Department of Indigenous Health at the MOH
works under the Integrated Health Project for Indigenous and Creoles People in
Honduras (2002-2006), which has been developed as a result of a substantive
consultation process between national officials and different indigenous federations.
Needs           The main health problems as considered by indigenous peoples that require priority
Assessment      interventions are, in order of importance, respiratory infections, parasitic infections and
HIV/AIDS. Following and by them considered as less common are mental disorders,
occupational accidents, malaria and dengue. In addition, there is an elevated rates of
child malnutrition, although not fully accounted by African descendants in the
Caribbean Region of the country. Child mortality and maternal mortality are also high
and associated with low sexual and reproductive health and limited access to health
services. Institutional weaknesses and low quality of services are other recognized
problem, with attention lacking particularly for those living in the South, Mid-South
and Occidental Regions. Finally, environmental degradation, land and water
contamination, particularly for those close to or in urban areas, lead to high levels of
diarrhea and high incidence of dehydrated children and to death. Other studies
conducted about these populations (e.g. Torres 20014) have also stressed: (a)
geographical, language and cost barriers that are derived from historically physical
segregation. As Torres indicates, physical segregation superimposes on the urban/rural
dichotomy, with indigenous and Afro populations located in rural areas where there is
also limited access to services, for example where the Garifuna communities
predominate; (b) different and sometimes conflictive belief systems, originated from
different cosmic visions on health and diseases; and (c) central role that traditional
healers, herbalists and midwives play in the culture and health system of indigenous
peoples but which contrasted with occidental medicine.
Strategy for    Local participation will be an integral part of the project through, when applicable: (a)
Local           periodic participatory assessments of benefits reaching indigenous and African
Participation   descendents communities; and (b) subprojects that support subcontracting with local
NGOs and thus support local ownership. IDA social specialists will be consulted in the
design and supervision of the M&E system and the implementation of the local
participation on the ground.
Technical       The first component of the project - Technical Assistance for Policy Design and
Identification of  Implementation - will finance technical assistance and studies to support the project's
Development     development objectives. The recent experience with the PRSP, the Indigenous Peoples
and Preservation  Profile, the Socio-Ethnographic Survey, the Social Assessment for the 2001
Activities.     Sustainable Tourism Project, the preparation of the Access to Land Pilot Project, and
the implementation of the 1999 Honduras Interactive Environmental Learning and
Science Promotion Project, have proved to be important sources of capacity building
for the government on culturally appropriate sectoral interventions. In addition, under
the first Component, capacity building will be provided for staff at the central level to
deal with issues specifically related to indigenous peoples' health. Finally, the
following will complement the targeting of indigenous peoples and African
descendent communities:
(a) (To be financed under the Component I) Technical assistance to tabulate data
obtained from community mapping plans in order to provide a snapshot of (i)
the major constraints that each cluster of beneficiaries (children, youth,
4 Cristina Torres PAHO. Indigenous People Health in Latin America. "Ethnicity and Health: Another Perspective Towards
Equity"



60
mothers, workers, etc.) have to access health services (time, distance, quality,
lack of cultural communication, etc.); (ii) local resources and local knowledge
on health (traditional medicine, local specialists as midwives, etc.) to be
mobilized by the new institutional arrangements that will be developed during
the implementation of subprojects; and (iii) available services, distance, quality
of personal, time spent (including campaigns) and how useful they are felt to
be by beneficiaries based on results specific interventions targeted towards
these groups will be incorporated into terms of reference used in the second
component. These results should be discussed with indigenous and African
descent organizations as recommended by the civil society strategy of the
PRSP.
(b) (To be used in the Operations Manual - Component 11) Eligibility criteria for
subprojects in areas where indigenous and African descent groups are resident
to ensure that the new proposed institutional framework: (i) is compatible with
existing community-based arrangements; and (ii) properly addresses the main
health issues faced by these populations as mapped.
(c) (To be used in the Operations Manual - Second Component). Subprojects will
cover Departments where residents include indigenous peoples and African
descent communities. Some subprojects will specifically include: (i) targeting
of these population as a condition; (ii) participatory quality control as part of
their financing; (iii) dissemination activities and campaigns designed with
participation of local community groups with whom their efficacy will be
tested; and (iv) where appropriated, dissemination will use local language and
institutions providing health services to indigenous peoples and African
descendents, when appropriate, will be staffed with professionals able to
communicate inn local languages or translators.
Monitoring and  Participatory assessments financed under the project will provide the elements to
Evaluation      evaluate and adapt, if necessary, how proposed actions are reaching indigenous peoples
and groups of African descendents.
Time line and    I . Technical assistance for data analysis and tabulation of  1. Budget:
costing             community mapping plans to evaluate project activities  US$50,000
reaching indigenous people's and groups of African
descent
2. Training on capacity building for central level staff to  2. Budget:
deal with different aspects related with indigenous    US$50,000
people's



61
Annex 2.D
Hospital Waste Management in Honduras
I. Review of existing legislation regarding hospital waste management
Excerpts of key legislation covering hospital waste management are as follows:
Health Code (Decree No 65-91 dated May 28, 1991), General Provisions
Article 3 - The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health, which for the purposes of this Law shall be
called "The Secretariat," shall be responsible for defining the national health policy, the regulation, planning and
coordination of all public and private activities in the field of health. At departmental and municipal levels, it
shall act through regional leadership and health areas, respectively, under a rational principle of administrative
coordination and decentralization.
Article 5 - For purposes of operational coordination, the health sector is comprised of the following agencies and
institutions:
a) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health;
b) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Government and Justice;
c) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Labor and Social Security;
d) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Education;
e) The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Natural Resources and Environment;
f) The State Secretariat in the Bureaus of Planning, Coordination and Budget;
g) The Honduran Institute of Social Security, the National Autonomous Service of Aqueducts and Sewers and
Autonomous Agencies whose own law assigns them activities in this regard;
h) Municipalities, with regard to the obligations imposed on them by this code;
i) Public and private, national and foreign and international agencies which, in virtue of the Law, agreement or
treaty, are authorized to carry out activities, cooperate or advise on the matter of public health.
Book II - On Health Promotion and Protection, Title I - Environmental Sanitation, Chapter IV
Article 51 - Among others, solid waste is defined as: (e) waste produced in public and private health
establishments, whether contaminated or not; (f) waste that produces ionized radiation.
Article 52 - Trash of any kind must be eliminated in a sanitary manner. Municipalities must organize, contract
and assume the responsibility for trash cleaning, collection, treatment and disposal, in compliance with
regulatory standards.
Article 53 - Only lands that are expressly and previously authorized by municipalities with the favorable opinion
of the Secretariat may be used as sites for final disposal of trash.
Article 56 - The Secretariat shall rate the sites to establish trash collection, storage, classification and separation.
General Regulation on Environmental Health
General Provisions, Chapter VII, Regarding Solid Waste (Trash)
Article 61: For the purposes of this Regulation and in accordance with provisions in Article 51 of the Code, the
generic name of trash is given to: (a)... (e) waste produced in public and private health establishments, whether
contaminated or not; (f) waste that produces ionized radiation.



62
Article 64: According to their law and health code, municipalities are responsible for organizing, contracting and
assuming responsibility for trash services, collection, treatment and final disposal. Special handling and
treatment of hazardous waste from hospitals must also be considered. Such handling must comply with technical
standards for personnel safety and proper isolation of hazardous waste. Treatment should be considered under
three systems: (a) incineration; (b) autoclave; and (c) special sanitary landfill. The treatment selected will
depend on the waste produced or some other alternative that is available in accordance with technological
progress.
General Environmental Law
Decree Number 104-93 dated May 27,1993, Title IV, Chapter IV, Environment and Human Health
Article 74: The State, through the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health and with the collaboration of
the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Environment, shall oversee compliance with general and special laws
regarding basic sanitation and air pollution, water and soils, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living
environment for the population.
Article 75:  In terms of their territorial jurisdiction and in accordance with the State's general policy,
municipalities shall take environmental contamination control measures according to prevailing natural, social
and economic conditions.
Article 76: The Executive Branch shall establish permissible levels of contamination, in light of the results of
pertinent research and international standards.
Title V, Special Provisions for Environmental Protection, Chapter I, General aspects
Article 78: Individuals or corporations, whether public or private, that wish to carry out any work or activity that
might seriously alter or deteriorate the environment, including natural resources, are obliged to inform the
relevant authority, due to the subject matter and to prepare an environmental impact assessment (EIA) in
accordance with provisions in Article 5 of this law.
These activities include chemical, petrochemical, steel, petroleum and tanning industries, paper mills, sugar
refineries, distilleries, coffee processing plants, and agro-industry in general; power generation and transmission,
mining; construction and administration of waste and toxic and hazardous substances, projects in the sectors of
tourism, recreation, urbanization, forestry, human settlements and any other industries that may cause severe
damage to the ecological balance.
General Regulation of the General Environmental Law
Agreement no. 109-93 dated December 20, 1993, Chapter II, General Principles
Article 9: The introduction into the country of radioactive toxic waste, household trash, sludge or raw sewage
and others considered harmful or contaminating, is prohibited. Likewise, national territory and national waters
may not be used to dump such materials.
Title IV, Environmental elements different from natural resources, Chapter II, Environment and Human Health
Article 75: The State Secretariat in the Office of Public Health will be responsible for coordinating and
overseeing compliance with general and special laws regarding basic sanitation and air, water and soil pollution,
with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living environment for the population. The State Secretariat in the



63
Bureau of Health shall perform this function with the collaboration of the Secretariat of Environment. In any
case, the decisions made by that State Secretariat in fulfillment of this function should be based upon the
principles established by the Law and this regulation. Likewise, they shall be applied to resolve conflicts of
interpretation that may arise in the application of sectoral laws.
Article 76 - Under the respective terms, municipalities shall be qualified to adopt specific measures for
conservation and control of environmental contamination, according to prevailing natural, social and economic
conditions. These measures should be in line with the policy on this subject formulated by the State Secretariats
in the Bureau of Public Health and the Environment.
Regulation for solid waste management, Dated June 6,2001
Chapter 11, Regarding Definitions
Solid waste with special characteristics includes: solids, fluid and thick liquid gases in containers which, due to
their chemical reactivity, toxic, explosive, corrosive, radioactive or other characteristics, are harmful to health or
the environment.
This waste needs special handling and surveillance, from its generation to its final disposal. Depending on its
type and origin, it is grouped as follows (...):
From health establishments: this requires special handling inside and outside the health institution where
it is generated. It comes from areas where patients with infectious and contagious conditions are kept in
isolation, microbiological laboratories, surgery, childbirth, hemodialysis services and others, also
including human organic remains from the areas of surgery, childbirth, morgue and pathologic anatomy,
as well as remains of animals used for diagnostic and experimental testing, and the generation of expired
pharmaceuticals.
Chapter III, Regarding General Provisions
Article 6: According to its physical, chemical and biological composition, solid waste is classified as being of
two types:
A) Non-hazardous
b) Hazardous
Article 7: From a sanitary standpoint, waste management is classified in two categories:
A) Provision of public service
a) Special handling
Article 8: From a health standpoint, the objective of the provision of public trash collection services shall be the
management of household, commercial, institutional and agricultural waste, non-hazardous hospital waste and
non-hazardous health center waste, and trash on public roads, except that which, due to its nature, size and
volume, cannot be incorporated into waste management, in the municipality's opinion, according to its
operational capacity.
Article 9: The objective of the provision of special waste management shall be the management of solid waste
with special characteristics, packaging and containers of any type of chemical product, especially agrochemicals
and preparations for agricultural and livestock use, trash which, due to its location, is difficult to handle due to



64
the inaccessibility of trash vehicles and others not contemplated in the previous Article which require special
handling conditions.
Article 10: Solid waste management consists of the following activities:
A) Storage
B) Collection
c) Transportation
d) Recovery
e) Treatment
f) Final disposal
Chapter IV, Sanitary Management of Non-Hazardous Waste, Chapter V, Sanitary Management of Special Waste
Article 47. The entire special waste management system must be submitted for approval by the State Secretariat
in the Bureaus of Health, subject to an Environmental License issued by the State Secretariat in the Bureaus of
Natural Resources and Environment for the treatment and sanitary disposal of waste.
Article 48. Infectious and contagious waste may be disposed of in the sanitary landfill, after being treated by
means of incineration or sterilization. In extraordinary situations, this type of waste may be accepted without
treatment in specially-equipped containers, in which case the authorization for the dumping site and for
procedures to carry this out shall be issued by the Health Secretariat.
Article 51. The interested party or person responsible for transporting solid waste with special characteristics
should request and obtain prior permission from the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Health, which shall
establish the minimum conditions for vehicles to be used for this purpose, as well as the establishment of
necessary standards for the protection of operators and living beings.
Article 52. Operators in charge of handling solid waste with special characteristics should be trained to handle
such waste and have the necessary personal protection equipment and implements, according to stipulations
issued by the State Secretariat in the Bureau of Labor and Social Security on the subject of hygiene and industrial
safety.
Article 53: Management of solid waste with special characteristics is the responsibility of the person or entity
generating such waste.
Regarding storage of special waste
Article 54: Solid waste with special characteristics should be stored using containers that are different from
those used for ordinary service; these containers should be clearly identified and special health and safety
measures should be observed to protect human and environmental health.
Article 55: Disposable, non-biological waste, considered as pathogenic solid waste, such as hypodermic needles
and other types of instruments, may only be mixed with this type of waste when measures are taken aimed at
avoiding risks in joint handling; otherwise it should be stored separately.
Article 56: Containers for storage of solid waste with special characteristics should be hermetically sealed and
duly marked with measures to be taken in case of emergency.



65
Article 57: The material(s) used in the manufacture of containers for waste storage in order to ensure the safety
of the process, must be in accordance with the characteristics of such waste in order to ensure the safety of the
process.
Article 58: Temporary storage areas for pathogenic solid waste in the buildings where it is generated, should at
least meet the following requirements:
A) They should have air extractors with biological filters.
b) They should be marked so that they can be easily identified and should be under the express prohibition on
permitting the entry of persons not involved in this activity.
c) They should be disinfected and deodorized frequently to ensure hygienic, safe and sanitary conditions.
d) They should have the safety devices needed to prevent and control accidents and fires.
Article 59: Solid waste with special characteristics shall be held as such even though it may be suitable for
packaging or containers.
Article 60: Any mix of trash that includes pathogenic solid waste is considered waste with special
characteristics.
Il. Institutional Responsibilities in hospital waste management
According to Article 53 of the Regulation for Solid Waste Management dated June 6, 2001, the management of
solid waste with special characteristics is the responsibility of the person or entity which generates such waste.
According to Article 59 of the same Regulation, solid waste with special characteristics shall be held as such
even though it may be suitable for handling in packaging or containers and according to Article 60, any mix of
trash that includes pathogenic solid waste is considered solid waste with special characteristics. According to
Chapter II of the Regulation, with regard to Definitions, solid waste with special characteristics from health
establishments is that which requires special handling inside and outside the health institution where it is
generated. Such waste comes from areas where patients with infectious or contagious conditions are kept in
isolation, from microbiological laboratories, surgery, childbirth, hemodialysis services and others, and also
includes human organic remains from the areas of surgery, childbirth, morgue and pathological anatomy, as well
as remains of animals used for diagnostic testing or experiments, and expired pharmaceuticals.
According to Article 8 of Chapter II of this same Regulation, from a sanitary standpoint the objective of the
provision of public trash collection services will be to manage household, commercial, institutional and
agricultural waste, non-hazardous hospital waste, non-hazardous health center waste, and trash on public roads,
except that which, by its nature, size and volume, cannot be incorporated in waste management in the opinion of
the municipality, according to its operational capacity and according to Article 9: the objective of the provision
of special handling will be to manage solid waste with special characteristics, packaging or containers of any
type of chemical product, especially agrochemicals and preparations for agricultural and livestock use, trash
which, due to its location, is difficult to manage due to the inaccessibility of trash trucks and those not
contemplated in the previous Article which require special handling conditions.
Thus, under the new Regulation, all management of special solid waste - storage, collection, transportation,
recovery, treatment and final disposal - is the responsibility of the person or entity that generates it, i.e., of public
or private health establishments. The objective of the provision of public trash collection is to manage non-
hazardous hospital waste and non-hazardous waste from health centers. As we shall see later, in practice,
although waste from health establishments undergoes some degree of separation within such establishments,
during the collection process hazardous waste is mixed with non-hazardous waste, which then takes on the
characteristics of special waste.



66
With regard to surveillance, according to Article 74 of the General Environmental Law, "The State, through the
State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health and with the collaboration of the State Secretariat in the Bureau
of the Environment, shall oversee compliance with general and special laws regarding basic sanitation and air
pollution, water and soils, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living environment for the population".
According to Article 75, Title IC of the same Law, referring to environmental elements different from natural
resources, Chapter II on Environment and Human Health, "The State Secretariat in the Bureau of Public Health
shall be responsible for coordinating and overseeing compliance with general and special laws regarding basic
sanitation and air, water and soil pollution, with the objective of ensuring an appropriate living environment for
the population".
According to the Health Code and Article 65 of the General Regulation on Environmental Health, the pertinent
General Bureau of Health of the Health Secretariat shall issue, through the Health Department, the technical
standards concerning the sanitary systems for collection, treatment and final disposal of trash, which are
mandatory for municipalities or other public or private entities which are in charge of this type of services, as
well as for employees who must issue opinions in this field.
The Health Secretariat, in turn, is structured in three under-secretariats: (i) population risks; (ii) service network;
(iii) regulation and sectoral policy and four General Bureaus belonging, respectively to: (i) the General Bureau of
Population Risks; (ii) the General Bureau of Regulation and Development; and (iii) the General Bureau of
Hospitals and the General Bureau of Service Networks. In turn, the General Bureaus are structured in
Departments, or in the case of the General Bureau of Hospitals, in Departments and Hospitals and the General
Bureau of Service Networks in eight Regions.
In the Under-Secretariat of Population Risks, a project for the management of solid waste from hospitals is
currently being executed, directly linked to the General Bureau of Population Risks. The work of this project is
closely coordinated with the Department of Environmental Sanitation of this same Under-Secretariat and with the
Bureau of Hospitals, Department of Hospitals and the Under-Secretariat of Networks.
With this type of coordination, there are several practical problems with regard to solid waste management, since
the project is in a under-secretariat which has a regulatory function and its implementation is carried out by
another under-secretariat - the service network.
With regard to overseeing the internal management of hospital waste, according to information received from the
Health Secretariat, it is not well defined within this Secretariat. Currently, the directors of health establishments
are responsible for implementing waste management.
The Honduran Institute of Social Security (IHSS) should comply with the same health regulations and other
health laws. The control of solid waste management in its hospitals is carried out by the Department of
Preventive Medicine. The State Secretary (of Health) is a member of the boards of directors of institutions that
comprise the health sector, including IHSS. It is at this level that major decisions are made regarding the
execution of programs and projects.
To ensure that good waste management practices are used in hospitals and health centers, a preliminary draft of
the regulation for the management of hazardous waste from health establishments was submitted for
consideration. The elements that have taken part in the preparation of this preliminary draft were: the
Association of Municipalities of Honduras, the Municipality of Honduras, the Department of Epidemiology of
the Health Secretariat, the Bureau of Environmental Inspection, the Teaching Hospital, the Secretariat of Natural
Resources, CESCCO (Center for Studies and Control of Contaminants) and the Legal Advisory Office of the



67
Health Secretariat. This preliminary draft has been with the Legal Advisory Office for about eight months, for
consideration and approval. This document currently would need to revised and adjusted in light of the recently-
approved Solid Waste Management Regulation.
III. Current practices regarding the production, processing, transportation and storage or disposal of
hospital waste or toxic material in Honduras
One of the country's principal health and environmental problems consists of improper handling of trash or solid
waste in general. In a study performed by Montoya in 1997, of the 43 municipalities for which information was
obtained, only 8 report coverage of over 50 percent of the population and in several cases waste is disposed of in
dumps.5 Other data indicate that the country has 48 dumps, 4 sanitary landfills and I crematorium for final
disposal of trash.
In addition, solid waste generated in hospitals and health centers is handled internally and externally almost
totally as if it were household waste.
Approximately one-third of the waste generated in health establishments is infectious; the rest is common waste
(generated by administrative or general activities and similar to household waste). In the "Study of Medical
Waste Management in Hospitals and Health Centers," performed in 1995 by the Health Secretariat, the results
obtained at the different health establishments indicate that the generation of common waste is around 68
percent; at medical and dental care centers it is 60 percent; and at rural health care centers (Cesares) it is 74
percent.
The average amount of hospital waste generated in Honduran hospitals is around 1.28 - 1.5 kg./bed/day6; at the
Cesamos it is 0.07 kg/bed/day; and at the Cesares it is 0.03 kg/bed/day. As in the case of the composition of such
waste, these production parameters vary daily in the same establishment, and much more so between one
establishment and another .
The following table indicates hospital waste production in 1995 and some data on partial separation carried out
inside several Honduran hospitals . All hazardous waste is mixed with non-hazardous waste, for final disposal,
which, under the Regulation for Solid Waste Management of July 2001, gives it the characteristics of special
waste.
5 Report on the State of the Enviromnent - Honduras 2000. Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment.
6 Project ALA/ 91/33
7 Health Secretariat - Nutrition and Health Project
8 Information on Project ALA 91/33 - Health Secretariat.



68
HOSPITAL WASTE SEPARATION: PROGRAM ALA 91/33
TEGUCIGALPA M.D.C. HONDURAS C.A.
FROM FEBRUARY 6 TO 16,1995
HOSPITAL              *es     Occa          Wasb      Produton Hzardous      Comnon     Stationery
WENMR -rave                             ProdUdioi    kg/day      wagte      waste        and
,   ., --   kg/ /      kg/day     kg/day     Gardening
.'  _._,_,,_               _          _X    _   v    day   .              _  _  _               I  kglday
1. Teaching Hospital and Maternity  1034  80%        4.11       3,400               No separation
and Children's Hospital*      _
2. Honduran Medical Center"*    20       50%         8.80         68         34         12         41,5
3. National Thorax Institute*  292       80%         1.92        450        250         200
4. Sta. Rosita National Psychiatric  300  110%       1.00        330         1.2
Hospital *
5."Dr. Mario Mendoza" Psychiatric  80    100%        0.87         70                No separation
Hospital*
6. San Felipe General Hospital*  397     70%        13.75       3,822      1,232       350        2,240
7. Medical-Surgical Hospital,  250      80%          4.02        804        140         66
IHSS*
8. Maternity and Children's    249       80%         4.57        911        714         85         112
Hospital, I.H.S.S*.
9. Military Hospital**         30       100%        15.56        167                No separation
10 Polyclinic Hospital**        31       70%         8.27        162         37         61     |    84
11 Casa de Salud El Carmen**    30       70%         5.95        125                No separation
12 Viera Hospital and Clinic"*  50       70%         9.28        325        119         161         45
TOTAL                                                           10,674      2,527
*Public Hospital
**Private Hospital
Throughout the country, there are at least 11 incinerators in different hospitals, but, with the exception of
Catarino Rivas Hospital in San Pedro Sula, all are out of service for various reasons, including the age of the
equipment, lack of spare parts and lack of staff trained to operate them9.
In some hospitals, there is a partial separation of hazardous waste and for some of this waste there is some type
of local treatment (syringes and needles, for example).  The quantity of containers existing in health
establishments to handle all the waste generated in an adequate and timely manner is generally insufficient.
Although there is some segregation of hazardous waste inside health establishments, it is mixed for outside
collection, so that common waste (68 percent on average) also takes on the characteristics of special waste,
bringing with it a great health risk.
External collection in health establishments is performed in different ways, either by the municipal sanitation
service, by private companies or with own resources. In general terms, this collection does not meet
requirements for the collection of special waste. Solid waste from health establishments is collected, transported
and disposed of by the municipal or private sanitation service, with no differentiation being made between
household and hospital waste. In villages or small cities that lack sanitation services, solid waste from health
establishments is dumped on their own grounds, and it is bumed daily to reduce its volume. Other health
establishments haul their solid waste to open dumps near the community.'I
9 Health Secretariat Report
' Health Secretariat, Nutrition and Health Project



69
In general terms, internal and external management of solid waste from hospitals and health centers is carried out
in an inadequate and deficient manner due to various factors such as: shortage or lack of personnel, inputs,
working implements, equipment, infrastructure works and treatment works; lack of technical advice and training
of institutional staff, administrative deficiencies in terms of resources and lack of specific regulation. The Health
Secretariat has trained the staff of sanitation companies that provide service to hospitals, both those that work
inside health establishments and those that work outside. However, the large staff turnover in these companies,
added to other factors already mentioned, kept this training from having the expected impact on the management
of hospitals' solid waste.
In Honduras, according to Article 64 of the General Regulation on Environmental Health, municipalities,
according to their law and the Health Code, are in charge of organizing, contracting and assuming the
responsibility for trash services, collection, treatment and final disposal thereof. In addition, special handling and
treatment must be considered for hazardous waste from hospitals. This handling must comply with technical
standards for staff safety and proper isolation of hazardous waste. Three systems of treatment should be
considered: (a) incineration, (b) autoclave, (c) special sanitary landfill. The treatment selected will depend on the
waste produced or some other alternative that is available in accordance with technological progress. However,
the Regulation on Solid Waste Management dated June 6, 2001 has made the distinction between special and
non-special waste and municipalities would only be responsible for the management of non-special waste, while
the generator of special waste would be responsible for its management.
IV. Conclusions and Recommendations
In general, there is a lack of adequate management of hospital waste in Honduras. The factors that determine
inadequate management include: shortage or lack of staff, inputs, supplies, equipment, infrastructure and
treatment, lack of technical advice and training of institutional and sanitation company personnel, administrative
deficiencies in terms of resources and lack of specific regulation.
Although there is some segregation of hazardous waste inside health establishments, it is mixed for outside
collection, so that common waste (68 percent on average) also takes on the characteristics of special waste,
bringing with it a great health risk.
External collection in health establishments is performed in different ways, either by the municipal sanitation
service, by private companies or with own resources. In general terms, this collection does not meet
requirements for the collection of special waste. Solid waste from health establishments is collected, transported
and disposed of by the municipal or private sanitation service, with no differentiation being made between
household and hospital waste.
There is no regulation on internal management of solid waste in health establishments, which hinders compliance
with adequate measures.
Recommendations:
*  Provide adequate budget allocation, with national funds, to comply with current regulations and
management of complementary external cooperation funds.  Resources should cover both the
construction and/or improvement of infrastructure, such as necessary equipment, materials and inputs, as
well as the ongoing training of staff of health establishments regarding the importance and proper
handling of waste generated in such establishments, in all phases.
* Review and update of the Study of Medical Waste Management in Hospitals and Health Centers, in light
of progress made since its preparation in 1995. Based upon this, prepare an Integrated Management Plan



70
*  for Solid Waste in Health Establishments. It is important that work be performed aiming at intra- and
inter-institutional linkage and coordination in waste management, linkage of operational efforts,
coordination of different sources of financing, as well as the search for funds to plan investments in
hospital waste management.
*  Assess the situation at health establishments with hazardous waste treatment infrastructure that is out of
service, it is important that a diagnostic be performed to extract the lessons learned or so that the existing
equipment and installations can be repaired and placed back in service.
*  Approve the preliminary draft of the regulation on hazardous waste management in health
establishments, subject to an analysis and review of its content in light of the new Solid Waste
Management Regulation. The existence of a regulation for hazardous waste management would
reinforce compliance within health establishments.
*  Better integrate solid waste management in the Secretariat's organizational structure, either in the Under-
Secretariat of Population Risks, in the Service Network, or if there is an agreement by which both Under-
Secretariats would agree to support the regulatory and operational provisions.
*  Ensure that contracts with Sanitation Companies within health establishments are explicit with
regard to hazardous waste management; contract clauses should be complied with, and the
stability of their workers should be considered during contracting.



71
Annex 3
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Local        Foreign         Total
I . Project Cost By Component               US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Health Policy Design and Implementation     3.83           4.04          7.87
11. Health Delivery and Management Subprojects  6.93         10.40          17.33
111. Project Administration                     1.89          0.81          2.70
Total Baseline Cost                           12.65         15.25          27.9
Phvsical Contingencies                       0.93           0.93          1.86
Price Contingencies                           0.62           0.62          1.24
Total Project Costs:              14.2          16.8           31.0
Total Financing Required               14.2          16.8           31.0
Local        Foreign.        Total
II. Project Cost By Expenditure             US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Goods                                       0.37           1.48          1.85
2. Consultants Services and Audits             4.40           2.94          7.34
3. Training                                    0.73           0.39          1.12
4. Subprojects                                  7.02          10.53         17.55
5. Incremental Operating Costs                  0.21           0.0           0.21
6. Unallocated                                  1.47          1.47           2.94
Total Project Cost            142            16.8          31.0



72
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
This annex presents the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the Honduras Health System
Reform Project, based upon the project's costs and the measurable economic benefits expected from the
successful implementation of the proposed program. The economic evaluation considers only the direct
benefits. The project would produce important indirect benefits that will measured by the monitoring and
evaluation system to allow for ex-post evaluation but will not be assumed ex-ante. As an example,
reducing the number of bed days due to complications from diabetes or hypertension that result from
improvements in the health care model will reduce the productivity losses associated with medical care.
This annex also provides an analysis of the fiscal impact of the social security reforms and of project
spending (during execution, and long run incremental recurrent costs). Because of the late addition of the
HIV/AIDS activities, the economic analysis excludes the costs and benefits from the project support for
HIV/AIDS prevention and care and treatment of STIs. These programs typically have extremely high
rates of return, with benefits accruing to the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
In total, enhancement of system performance is expected to save over $38 million over the life of the
project and over $95 million over a ten year horizon. To determine the overall cost-benefit of the
proposed investment, the economic analysis includes the project costs of $26 million, plus nearly $5
million in recurrent expenditure per year related to the ongoing costs associated with improving access to
primary health care services and extending social security. Recurrent costs are estimated at 15 percent of
capital investment and a depreciation schedule of five years for equipment purchases, three years for
computer equipment, and 40 years for infrastructure improvements. In addition, the recurrent costs
associated with the pharmaceutical purchases and partial costs of the innovative models are costed as full
recurrent costs going forward. In summary, the project would yield a net present value (NPV) of benefits,
after investment and recurrent costs, of over $23 million and produce an internal rate of return (IRR) of
nearly 124 percent over ten years.
The main results include:
Table 1: Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
5 years          10 vears
NPV (US$ millions)                                   $7.6            $25.3
ERR                                                                  124%
Total Costs                                          $26             $50
Benefit:Cost Ratio (CBR)                                             2:1
Note: NP V Benefits is equal to the direct benefits, minus total project
costs (in USS millions)
Benefit: Cost is equal to total benefits divided by total costs
IRR was calculated based on net benefits over I0 years
Assuming the cost and benefit measures truly capture their full value, then NPV > 0, CBR >1 or IRR >
discount rate (10 percent) would automatically imply that the project is worth supporting. Several factors
indicate the present analysis is more likely to underestimate the full value than to overestimate: the
analysis uses only two proxy indicators to measure multiple benefits, no indirect benefits are included,
and target levels for direct benefits are conservatively estimated given the benefits demonstrated in the
ongoing Health System Reform Project.



73
Summary of Benefits and Costs
The Honduras Health System Reform Project will produce substantial savings for the sector. For the
purposes of this analysis, only two direct benefits are considered. First, the savings in reducing
absenteeism and reductions in duplicated employment, as a proxy for improvements in hospital
management, are considered as an important category of savings. Second, the increases in social security
enrollment, targeted at 100 percent increase over the life of the project, would yield substantial direct
benefits. For the effects of the analysis, it assumed that 98 percent of all revenues are spent on
improvements in health care thereby leaving only a small direct benefit. Even considering high recurrent
costs associated with the project, the stream of benefits shows that the project would be deemed highly
desirable and would be financially sustainable.
The cost-benefit analysis assumes that the strengthening and changes in the health care system will be
targeted to 1.2 million people, equivalent to estimated population covered and that a ten year period is
required to reflect the flow of costs and benefits. In all cases, the analysis assumes that benefits will
continue to accrue at a constant rate after the project finishes.
The most important direct benefits are derived from savings in staffing and reductions in absenteeism.
Both of these issues were quantified in the Public Expenditure Review recently completed. The estimates
are made based on the total number of lost days, the average wage per day and a conservative rate of
recovery, or reduction in absenteeism. In total, more than $10 million are lost each year in these areas.
The estimate savings would total more than $36 million over ten years.
The second area of direct benefits is calculated from the increase in enrollment with social security. The
project's established target of 100 percent increase is used as the comparative standard. Calculations were
made to estimate the difference in financial flow between a scenario of constant enrollment and no change
in the social security contribution ceiling and a scenario of 100 percent increase in enrollment in 10 years,
along with an increase in the contribution cap. In total, the financial flows resulting from this change
would sum to more than $1 billion over ten years. To keep the analysis as conservative as possible, the
present evaluation assumes that only 5 percent of the yearly revenue improvements would be translated
into net benefits (the remainder going to improved service and access). Making this correction yields
total benefits of more than $57 million over ten years.
As shown in the table, benefits outweigh investments nearly two to one. Over ten years, the net present
value of the project would yield benefits of approximately US$23 million. With the exception of the first
several years, the project is expected to generate annual savings to the system that outstrip the investment
cost, thereby paying for them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is estimated at 124 percent,
reflecting the extremely high benefits relative to project costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the
value of this project relative to other projects in other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate (10
percent) would imply that the project should not be carried out.



74
Table 2. Summary Costs and Benefits over 10 years
Year             Direct Benefits    Investment Costs Net Benefits  Present Value
0
1                         3,384,092      4,500,000   (1,115,908)  (1,014,462)
2                         5,674,345      5,950,000    (275,655)     (227,814)
3                         7,849,307      6,100,000   1,749,307     1,314,281
4                         9,796,976      5,350,000   4,446,976     3,037,345
5                         11,342,044     4,100,000   7,242,044     4,496,739
6                         11,342,044     4,800,000   6,542,044     3,692,813
7                         11,342,044     4,800,000   6,542,044     3,357,103
8                         11,342,044     4,800,000   6,542,044     3,051,912
9                        11,342,044      4,800,000   6,542,044     2,774,465
10                        11,342,044     4,800,000    6,542,044    2,522,241
Total                      94,756,984    50,000,000  44,756,984   23,004,623
IRR                                                                 124%
Cost Benefit Ratio                                                        1.9
NPV (5 years)                                                          $7,606,088
NPV (10 years)                                                        $23,004,623
In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the external
investment costs of the World Bank project; and (ii) the recurrent costs. The total project cost amounts to
$26 million over ten years. The World Bank would finance $22.6 million and local funding sources
would finance $3.4 million. The total investment costs are assumed to mirror the projected disbursements
schedule. The recurrent costs reach $4.8 million per year after the fifth year, once the project is fully
operational. This amount includes the recurrent and incremental costs of investments in equipment and
maintenance, as well as the cost of increasing the coverage of basic health services through the primary
care network. Over a ten-year horizon, the total cost of the project is $50 million.
Main Assumptions
The following paramneters are considered relevant in estimating the economic benefits of the proposed
project: the length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health system performance, the
existing patterns of expenditure in each category and existing levels of hospital utilization and of
morbidity and mortality. A discount rate of 10 percent is used in line with the IDA's 10-12 percent
recommendation for discount rates in economic analysis. Given the medium-to-long-term effect of the
changes, the estimates presented in terms of lower direct costs, assume a project horizon of 10 years. The
following assumptions are made in measuring the direct benefits:
(i)    Coverage of social security would increase from   386,000 direct contributors to 772,000
contributors by year 10.
(ii)   The cost of care in the social security system would yield yearly margins of 5 percent over total
revenues;
(iii)  Absenteeism and double employment would be reduced gradually by 15 percent, 30 percent and
50 percent for the first three years and then 65 percent thereafter; and
(iv)   Discount rate of 10 percent.



75
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
While the above results are conservative, it is important to test the robustness of the results with regard to
potential delays or reductions in benefits. Sensitivity analysis explores how plausible changes in
assumptions about uncertain variables affect conclusions regarding the project. Uncertainty in the three
main assumptions is
reflected by using sensitivity analysis to test the impact of delays of 2 and 3 years, as well as a reduction
in benefits of 20 percent, and 40 percent. The following table summarizes the results of the sensitivity
analysis.
Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis
NPV              IRR
Type of Sensitivity Analysis  (US$ million)     (%)
Base Case                   25,305,085          124%
2-year delay                 19,392,799         109%
3-year delay                 15,410,365         64%
20% reduction in benefits    13,404,416         56%
40% reduction in benefits    1,503,746          15%
The previous table shows the effect of delays and lower than expected benefits on the NPV and IRR.
Overall, the project would remain justifiable even assuming a 3 year delay in project benefits or a 40
percent reduction in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters which dictate that annual
rate of return earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate of the project, to maintain an
efficient allocation of IDA resources. The high IRR also underscores the cost-effective nature of the
program. With a 50 percent reduction in benefits, however, the project is reduced to a negative return on
the investment and the NPV of the project slips below zero.
Evaluation of Sustainability and Fiscal Impact
Estimates of the sustainability of the project are based on an analysis of the project's recurrent costs
generated by annual maintenance costs of equipment and continuation of projects aimed at the extension
of the basic package. Upon project completion, the annual recurrent costs will account for between
US$4.5 million and US$5.2 million per year, including the additional operating costs generated by the
investment, maintenance costs of 5 percent per year, and an annual depreciation of 10 percent per year for
equipment. The fiscal analysis excludes the HIV/AIDS activities, because of their late inclusion in the
project.
The evaluation of the project's fiscal impact also evaluates the implications of the recently approved Law
amending the 1959 social security law. The Law introduces three important changes that have a
significant impact on public health spending and on the public spending responsibilities. First, the Law
increased the contribution ceiling for social security to $2,400 Lempiras in January 2002, $3,600
Lempiras in July 2003 and $4,800 in July 2003. The impact of this change for public spending is based
on the increased social security obligations for the government as employer. Second, the Law increased
the subsidy from the State to social security from 0.5 percent to 1.0 percent each for health insurance and
pensions. Third, the increase in social security revenues will allow the IHSS to rapidly increase health
spending to meet the challenges of increased coverage of the new Law. The impact of these changes is
evaluated in the following table.



76
The total incremental costs of the project, including the cost of sustaining the innovative projects related
to coverage extension developed under the project and all maintenance and depreciation are compared
with the projected public health expenditure, MOH spending, and total central government spending. The
assumptions
include: (i) annual health care spending increases as a constant share of 7.5 percent of GDP with the
exception of the increases in social security spending; (ii) 2.5 percent real growth in GDP over the next 10
years; and (iii) and public spending constant at II percent of GDP. Table 4 displays the results of the
analysis.
Table 4: Analysis of Project Sustainability and Fiscal Impact
(2001 US$ (millions))
2001         2002        2005         2010
Total Health Spending
GDP (US$ millions)                          5,867    6,013.52     6,475.91    7,326.89
Total Public Spending                        1640     1,681.00    1,810.25    2,048.14
% Public Spending on Health                  11%         13%          15%         18%
% GDP on Health                             7.5%         7.9%        8.4%         9.4%
GDP on Health                             440.01       474.95      546.55       689.55
MOH                                       158.40       162.37      174.85       197.83
SS                                         26.40        51.00       90.00       173.00
Private Sector                            255.21       261.59      281.70       318.72
Fiscal Impact of Changes in Social Security Law  3.17    6.75       12.49        12.49
Role of government as employer          0.47          1.11        1.55         1.55
Role of government as subsidy            2.7          5.64       10.94        10.94
Role of government (only health contributions)  0.7   2.11        4.68         4.68
Project Costs                                             4.5         5.4          4.8
Project Costs as % of Public Health Spending             2.1%        2.0%         1.3%
Proiect Costs as % of MOH Spending                        3%           3%          2%
Fiscal Impact of Changes on Social Security Law as
a % of public spending                                   0.4%        0.7%         0.6%
Fiscal Impact of project spending + social security
law as a % of public spending                            0.7%         1.0%        0.8%
Fiscal impact of project spending + social security
law health spending as % of public health spending       3.1%        3.8%         2.6%
Source: Data based on World Bank data and authors
calculations
The fiscal analysis assumes that: (i) private spending and MOH spending remain at 7 percent of GDP but
social security spending increases from 0.45 percent of GDP in 2001 to 2.4 percent of GDP in 2010; (ii)
2.5 percent real growth in GDP over the next 10 years; and (iii) and public spending constant at 11
percent of GDP. Estimated recurrent expenditures from the project are projected to reach a maximum of
2.4 percent of total public spending on health, and taper off to just over 1.3 percent by 2009. The
relatively low percentage is due to the significant increase in IHSS spending.
Overall spending on health, both public and private, is projected to increase from 7.5 percent of GDP in
2001 to over 9 percent of GDP by 2009 due to changes in social security. In absolute terms, the increase
in government social security contributions would imply increases of US$2.7 million and US$0.47
million, respectively, in 2001; this would increase to US$10.9 and US$1.6, respectively, by 2005. As a
percentage of total public spending, the increasing government fiscal contributions would account for a
maximum of I percent of public spending. As a percentage of total public spending on health, the



77
increased fiscal contributions would account for a high of 4 percent in 2004, tapering off to 2.3 percent in
2009.



78
Annex 5
Honduras Health System Reformn Project
Financial Summary
(US$ million)
Implementation Period
Total Financing Required    2002        2003        2004        2005         2006
Project Costs
Investment Costs          7.32        8.46        7.41         5.23        1.05
Recurrent Costs           0.39        0.45        0.39         0.28       0.006
Total Project Costs         7.70         8.90        7.8          5.5         1.0
Interest during construction  0         0           0           0            0
Front-end fee 1% n/a   0           0           0           0            0
Total Project Financing     7.70         8.90        7.8          5.5         1.0



79
Annex 6
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Procurement, Financial and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines:Procurement Under 1BRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and
January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated
amounts of each method, are summarized in Table A.
Procurement of Works. The project will finance Health Delivery and Management subprojects
proposed by the GOH and IHSS (see Component II and below) that may include in their composition a
small share of small works (mostly rehabilitation) of health facilities (centers and hospitals). No
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is expected. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
for rehabilitation works are expected in view of the nature of the small works. Small works in any
subproject are estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract. Contracts for small works
may be procured, up to an aggregate of US$5.0 million equivalent, on the basis of at least three quotations
received in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed description of the works
required, including basic specifications, the necessary completion date, a basic form of request for
quotations and lump-sum fixed-contract, acceptable to the IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project for activities not in Component II
(Subprojects) will include computing and office equipment and furniture, 3 vehicles, training materials,
and a small lot of consumable office supplies for operation of the UTEC in the PIU. For contracts for
goods in Components II and III, including computing equipment for the MIS of MOH and IHSS, and to
the extent possible, would be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$150,000 equivalent and
procured following ICB procedures, using IDA-issued Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts with
estimated values below US$150,000 and more than US$25,000, up to an aggregate of US$0.08 million,
may be procured using NCB procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the IDA. Contracts
for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.15 million, may be procured
using shopping (NationaVlInternational) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to
IDA.
Procurement in Subprojects. Other goods that may be included in the subprojects submitted to the IRC,
could be primary care and emergency room medical and laboratory equipment and furniture,
pharmaceuticals, and spare parts to repair essential equipment in hospitals or health facilities. All
purchases of goods or works in subprojects will follow agreed procedures for other goods in the project.
Direct contracting will be used exclusively for spare parts of existing equipment up to an aggregate
amount of US$3.0 million. These spare parts must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment. The appropriateness of the inclusion of spare parts in a subproject
will be reviewed at each program review.



80
Selection of Consultants. Consulting services in Component I will be contracted in the project in the
following areas of expertise: regulation and institutional development and modernization, resource
allocation, financial sustainability, and health service delivery, quality and efficiency, evaluation and
monitoring of the PAS, IEC strategies to support the advance of the reform program, and for proposal
preparation and supervision of subprojects in Component II, all linked to a Technical Assistance Plan
(Annex2.B). For Component II, health care and support services (delivered by NGOs, community service
foundations/institutions, and other private providers) and short-term technical assistance by firms and
individuals may be included in the subprojects. This information will be available in the PAC
accompanying each Program Review. For Component III, services required may include technical
assistance (foreign or local), including long-term staff in the UTEC of the PIU. All contracts with
consultants would be financed net of income taxes and other levies imposed by the GOH. The GOH
imposes 5% of income taxes to local consultants, and exempts from all taxes all foreign consulting
services.
Firms: Most contracts for consulting services including training of health personnel, health care and
support services would be selected using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) and IDA Standard
Request for Proposals (RFP). Other small and simple contracts , estimated to cost US$75,000 or less,
would be procured using Least-Cost Selection (LCS) procedures (paragraph 3.6 of Guidelines), up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.3 million.
Individuals Specialized advisory services and other technical assistance, including long-term technical
staff in the UTEC, would be provided by national and international individual consultants, selected by
comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.1 million.
Training. Training activities in the project will finance costs related to the delivery of training events and
workshops, production, reproduction and printing services of training materials, and logistics costs related
to transportation, housing, and subsistence/per diems of trainees and trainers, national and international
study tours to foster professional development of MOH and IHSS or the PIU staff. Contracting of
consulting services for these activities would be included category of consultant services and will follow
similar competitive procedures as determined in such category. The logistical costs of training such as
hotels, catering, and transportation, will be incurred only after prior approval by the Bank.
Health Delivery and Management Subnroiects. The project will finance subprojects which will be
proposed during the life of the project by the GOH as described in Component II (see Annex 2).
Financing of subproject activities would be linked to disbursement conditions in the PAS. Potential
beneficiaries of the financing allocated to subprojects of MOH and IHSS are expected to prepare
proposals, assisted by qualified consultants. The subprojects are expected to include a mix of physical
inputs (minor rehabilitation works and goods), technical assistance, health care and support services, and
training activities. PACs for each Phase of Subprojects would be delivered to IDA at least 60 days prior
to scheduled Program Reviews (see mechanism for approval in main section of PAD). Once technical
specifications for health care and support service subprojects are completed by technical teams,
procurement of contracts would be done by the Management Agent (MA) following ICB, NCB and
shopping procedures, with same thresholds agreed for other similar contracts in the rest of the project.
Consulting services by firms, NGOs, public and private providers for: (i) contracts valued more than
US$75,000, would be selected using QCBS, (ii) contracts valued less than US$75,000, LCS would be the
preferred methodology for procurement. For individual consultants required for project activities, similar
procedures and thresholds apply as in the rest of the project. Since subprojects have to be proposed and
specified by the GOH during the project life, no aggregates in the expenditure categories have been set for
the individual mix of inputs included in a subproject. The mix and aggregate cost of each subproject



81
would be approved by the IRC and subject to IDA's satisfactory prior review. If at all possible, the MA
would package goods in contracts for computer equipment, medical instruments and equipment and,
pharmaceuticals. Spare parts for existing medical equipment may be contracted directly from the
manufacturer following direct contract procedures. Procedures for flow of actions and criteria for
selection of projects, and other relevant information of subproject procurement and financing will be
included in the OM. Supervision and periodic audits of contracts of subprojects will be procured to
accompany implementation of the subproject scheme in Component II.
ODerational Costs. These costs may include incremental contracts of administrative staff performing
support activities in the UTEC, and other incremental office rentals and utilities, maintenance and
operation of office equipment and vehicles, and consumable office supplies. Financing of this category
would not be on a declining basis, given the small amount allocated to finance said costs. National
contracting law establishes the requirement of all public entities to seek at least three quotations therefore
the assessment found these practices acceptable. Regarding staffing of support staff in the PIU, the OM
would include same competitive procedures as those required for other staff in the project.
Prior review thresholds: The threshold contract values for the use of each procurement method are
shown in Table B. In addition to prior review of individual procurement actions as detailed in the PAC
agreed prior to effectiveness for the project, all subsequent PACs for each Phase of Subprojects will be
reviewed and agreed with IDA for each Program Review.
The Project Procurement Capacity Assessment for this project concluded that, at present, the GOH
continues to face a series of institutional, regulatory, budget, staffing and ineffective external oversight of
procurement. In this context, serious limitations for the MOH and IHSS were detected since the
prevailing regulations in the contracting and budget laws may directly affect the efficiency and
effectiveness by which the two executing agencies could conduct procurement. Both institutions were
assessed and the results are included in a joint report. On the basis of the findings of the preliminary
assessment before pre-appraisal, the GOH and IDA agreed to seek a competitive contract with a qualified
project management firm that could assume project administration, that is, all functions in the UAF in the
PIU. For this purpose, the teams prepared of terms of reference to call for proposals and substantial
advance was done until this alternative had to be abandoned. Certainly, when legal statues in Honduras
and disbursements directives in the IDA were put to the test, the outcome indicated that a private firm
would have great difficulty in carrying out its full administration activities, especially concerning
contract payments, handling of the special account, and disbursements in view of the legal limitations
imposed in the national budgetary legal system.
Management Agent (MA). In view of the limitations found in the institutional organization of MOH
and IHSS, for management of the procurement function in the UAF, the GOH has proposed and IDA has
concurred with, the assistance of UNDP Honduras. This organization would assume full and integral
responsibility for all administrative, financial, procurement, and disbursement functions required to
administer the Project. As Management Agent (MA), UNDP would be collaborating with the GOH under
an Agency Agreement (Cost-Sharing), subsidiary to the Macro Cooperation Agreement signed by both
the Minister of Finance (MOF) with UNDP in January 30, 2001. The execution of the Agency
Agreement is a condition of effectiveness. It has been agreed that UNDP would carry out project
administration on behalf of IHSS and MOH, and would deploy a team of full-time qualified specialists
that would fully replace the administrative-structure in the PIU. The role of the MA in the execution of
the project is considered critical to successful outcomes since both MOH and IHSS are moving to meet
substantial policy changes required in the PAS. This assessment determined the need for the MA to take
also the lead in providing to the PIU all non-technical assistance required by project teams to advance in
the achievement of targets. To ensure outcomes, TORs for the MA were prepared and agreed with the



82
GOH. Although the GOH has agreed with UNDP the terms of its collaboration, the GOH would reserve
the right of changing the MA, with the concurrence of IDA, when its performance is considered not
satisfactory.
Organization. As a result of the Cooperation Agreement signed between the GOH and UNDP Honduras
(umbrella Agreement), UNDP opened a Business Center (BC) specifically organized to contribute to give
maximum support to the GOH in the implementation of projects assigned to it by the MOF. The
expressed mission of the BC is to administer funding, deliver quality products required to disburse
funding, and processing all documents under the principles, procedures and instruments as required by
financiers, while transferring technology for institutional strengthening of the national teams. The BC is
organized as a special internal unit in UNDP offices, under the Assistant Resident Representative, headed
by a Coordinator (financial-administrative). Two managers assist the coordinator, one for procurement
and other for financial matters. The Procurement Manager supervises all staff in the Procurement Unit
(PU). All contracting activities in the PU are subject to the approval of a Local Contracting Committee
(CLC), for amounts above US$30,000.
Staffing. Presently, UNDP has an international competent professional heading the PU under the
Business Center agreements with the GOH. This professional reports directly to the head of the Business
Center, in turn, reporting directly to the Assistant Resident Representative of UNDP. In addition, In
addition, UNDP has hired an additional procurement officer to be fully dedicated to the procurements
activities of the project. This officer has been contracted by UNDP based on with TORs agreed with
IDA.
The function of procurement would be under the supervision of the head of the MA team, who in turn
would act as Principal Liaison Officer with the PIU. This officer would have direct line of responsibility
to the General Coordinator of the PIU in all matters related to the UAF in the PIU.
Organization of Monitoring, Supervision and Auditing of Procurement Activity.
Monitoring of procurement actions will be carried out on the basis of the GPAC that has been prepared
and fully discussed with MOH and IHSS staff and that will be included in the Operational Manual
Contracts that may be required during execution of the Phases of Subprojects will be agreed under
additional PACs at time of Program Reviews, as they occur during project implementation. The MA,
jointly with technical teams in MOH and IHSS, would be responsible for preparation of PACs ahead of
the Program Review for each Phase. Technical supervision of all contracts will be the responsibility of
the PrU General Coordinator. The MA will be responsible for (a) providing guidance and specialized
technical assistance, as it may be required, to ensure the quality of specifications and terms of reference to
be included in procurement processes; and (b) for administrative-financial and procurement activities,
reporting directly to the General Coordinator in PIU for all matters concerning the project, seeking
clearances as may be required during project execution. All procurement procedures for process,
supervision and clearances are included in the Operational Manual and would serve as the basis for
establishing controls during project implementation. For technical supervision, arrangements have been
made to hire at least three specialized firms to assist the PIU in the periodic quantity and quality
audits/evaluations and ex - post reviews of component activities and subprojects. Independent qualified
auditors will be hired to conduct periodic and annual audits of project activities.
Procurement Planning and Control of Procurement Actions.
Procurement Plan.    The general procurement plan (GPAC) for major inputs in the project in
Components I and III has been prepared. For component II, a lump sum of each phase appears now in



83
cost and expenditure categories. For Phase 1, the PAC would be reviewed and agreed with IDA
immediately after subprojects have been approved. For Phases 11 and III, occurring 18 months apart,
PACs would be sent to IDA for prior review at least 60 days the Program Review takes place.
Control of Procurement Actions. The MA for registration, process, supervision, auditing and filing of
all procurement documentation, will put separate documentation and electronic databases in place.
Simplified reporting forms would be agreed with IDA for purposes of procurement monitoring.
Risks
The risks identified in the updated assessment are rated average and basically focus on (i) the delays that
may be encountered for advancing the PAC for the first year of the project, which may result from a
change of administration that took place in early January 2002; (ii) the time required for preparation and
implementation of investment plans for subprojects, including the contracting of all investments; and (iii)
institutional capacity of the technical teams to prepare technical documents for the PAC at each Phase.
Based on the average rating in the PPAR, an Action Plan was reviewed with the GOH and UNDP and
agreed at negotiations. The MA would be responsible for follow up and reporting on the compliance to
this Action Plan. However, it is recommended that a follow-up assessment be made, not later than six
months after of effectiveness to ensure that MA has in place all systems for documents filing, monitoring
and reporting of procurement, and that staff who are assigned to the project meet the criteria in the terms
of reference of the MA in order to identify if any adjustments are needed.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by IDA from its offices, the capacity
assessment recommends one full supervision mission to carry out post-review of procurement actions.
Based on the overall risk assessment (average), the ex-post review analysis by IDA should cover a sample
of not less than I in 5 contracts signed. Close monitoring of the PAC by project team will be required
throughout project life.
Annual Procurement Assessments
Annual procurement assessments funded by the project will be required to assist the IDA in
carrying out post-review of procurement actions. The assessments will be carried out by qualified
independent firms selected under terms of reference and procedures acceptable to IDA.



84
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method (1)
Expenditure Categorv                      ICB   NCB   Other (2) NBF Total Cost
1. Works                                  0.0   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
,                                         (0.0) (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)   (0.0)
2. Goods                                  1.9   0.1      0.1      0.0     2.1
(1.7) (0.1)    (0.1)   (0.0)   (1.8)
3. Consultant Services and Audits         0.0   0.0      6.9     1.10     8.2
(0.0) (0.0)    (6.7)   (0.0)   (6.7)
4. Training                               0.0   0.0       1.2     0.0     1.2
(0.0) (0.0)    (1.0)   (0.0)   (1.0)
Miscellaneous
. Suborolects (eligible works, goods.
consultina services, health service providers
ees. and training)                        0.0   0.0     18.3     0.0     18.3
(0.0) (0.0)    (15.5)  (0.0)   (15.5)
Pharmaceuticals                         0.0   0.0      1.0     0.0     1.0
(0.0) (0.0)    (0.9)   (0.0)   (0.9)
7. Incremental Operating Costs            0.0   0.0      0.3      0.0     0.3
(0.0) (0.0)    (0.2)   (0.0)    (0.2)
Total: 1.9    0.1     28.0     0.0    31.0
-     I(.1) I  (25.4)  I(0.)l  (27.1)
(I) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs
include contingencies.
(2) Procurement methodologies, where applicable, in this column include: (i) for
goods: national or international shopping;(ii) consulting services: procedures
described in respective Section A of this Annex 6, (iii) for training (logistic of
events) national shopping procedures, and study tours; (iv) subprojects'
procurement activities will follow methodologies applicable on the basis of nature
of input/expenditure as other goods in the project; direct contracting exclusively
for spare parts ; and (v) for incremental operational costs, national shopping for
other consumable office materials and O&M of equipment or vehicles financed
with proceeds from credit.



85
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(In US$ million equivalent, figures include contingencies)
Consultant                                 Selection Method
Services/Tra
ining                                                                              Total
Expenditure                                                                            Cost
Categories
X QCBS         OCO      SFB     LCS         CQ       Other | N.B.F
A. Firms           5.8      N/A    N/A        1.3       N/A          0                   7.1
Individuals
Total                                                                                     8.2
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.



86
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts
Category         (Threshold)              Method           Subject to
Prior Review
US $ thousands                            US $ millions
1. Works          $150,000 or more             NCB               First 2 contracts
Less than $150,000          3 quotations (fixed-  None
US$5.0 aggregate        price)
2. Goods
$150,000 or more           ICB                  All
Less than $150,000        NCB                    First contract
Less than $25,000        Shopping (paras. 3.5 &   None
3.6)
No threshold.            Direct Contracting         All
exclusively spare parts
of existing equipment
(subprojects), para.
(3.7)
3.Consulting
Services and
Audits and
Training
(a) Firms         $75,000 or more          QCBS                       All
Less than $75,000        LCS (para. 3.7)          None
(b) Individuals   $35,000 or more                                     All
Less than $35,000         Section V, Guidelines      None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $19.5
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).



87
Financial Management
Country Issues
Country financial management issues are discussed in the project's Financial Management Assessment
Report maintained in project files.
Implementing Entities
The Inter-Institutional Reform Committee (IRC) will be the project's governing body. The IRC would
oversee compliance of policy changes and the investments that are outlined in the PAS. The IRC will be
composed of 7 members: 2 from IHSS, 2 from the MOH, one from the private sector, MOF, and the
Minister of the Presidency (MOP), the latter acting as Chair of the IRC.
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established under the direction of an-Executive Director,
who would also act as Executive Secretary of the IRC and as principal contact point for IDA regarding
project implementation, periodic program review, and outcomes of development objectives under the
credit. Additionally, the PIU would comprise the coordinators for each of the project components (PAS
and Subprojects) and support staff.
As described in the World Bank's Honduras Public Expenditure Review (PER) dated June 28, 2001, the
GOH faces various obstacles that prevent operational efficiency, sound personnel management and
effective external oversight. This, in addition to the limitations of MOH and IHSS to implement
procurement actions (see Annex 6 of the PAD - Procurement), has led the GOH to decide on outsourcing
the project's administration (financial and procurement management). Under the Basic Assistance and
Cooperation Agreements in place between the GOH and UNDP, the latter has been selected as the
provider of the cited services for the project. TORs have already been developed with IDA assistance.
The use of UNDP as a special entity that is exempt from bureaucratic pubic sector control requirements is
justified in order to maintain the project's operational efficiency, thus helping to ensure an efficient
realization of its objectives. The long-term sustainability effects of this approach are compensated by the
project's activities toward institutional capacity building in the MOH (e.g., further development of
automated administrative procedures, performance-based budgeting, and improvements in financial
management systems) and IHSS (e.g., restructuring human resources management, developing a system
of performance indicators, developing information systems to support financial management and
operations, and strengthening the purchasing function). On the other hand, the IDA is supporting the
development and implementation of SIAFI, and strengthening of the CGR, through the Economic and
Financial Management Technical Assistance Credit.
UNDP's participation in the proposed project will be in compliance with the Checklist and the Standard
Annex to UNDP Nationally Executed Cost Sharing Project Documents agreed between UNDP and the
IDA in February 1994 and updated in June 2000.
Other entities that are key to the project's financial management are:
Directorate of Public Credit at MOF and Budget Departments at MOF, MOH and IHSS: to ensure that
credit and counterpart funds are included in the annual budget in a timely and simplified fashion, that
transfers to U7NDP are sufficient and expeditious, and that "legalization" of expenditures reported by
UNDP are properly entered in the budget execution.



88
Asset Management Units at MOH and IHSS: to document receipt and responsibility of project goods,
codify and record them in subsidiary ledgers, and monitor their proper use periodically.
Funds Flow
Procedures for flow of funds from the credit and the required counterpart contribution will be
implemented with due regard to safeguarding project's resources and ensuring timely execution of
payments.
Receipts. An initial advance of the amount needed to cover approximately six months of expenditures
will be disbursed by the IDA to UNDP Honduras' account in Bank of America (Dallas). All further
reimbursements will be deposited to this account, which UNDP monitors on a daily basis, Transfers from
this account to the country office operating fund in Banco Atlantida are made to cover no more than one
month's anticipated regular disbursements in local currency.
In accordance with the approved budget for the project, the National Treasury will disburse counterpart
funds to UNDP's account in Banco Atlantida on a quarterly basis. The first quota should cover
approximately three months of expenditures to be in line with the IDA's first disbursement.
UNDP issues Cash Receipt Vouchers (CRVs) in order to keep separate accounting records of sources of
funds per project.
Payments. All payments in US Dollars to providers of goods and services will be made out of the
account in Bank of America. The account in Banco Atlantida will be used for payments in Lempiras. For
every withdrawal (in US$ or Lps.), a Disbursement Voucher is used to keep separate accounting records
of uses of funds per project.
A local currency petty cash fund will be established with counterpart funds in the PIU, in an amount not
to exceed the equivalent of US$500, to be used for minor items (up to $100 per individual payment).
UNDP will review all requests for replenishment of the petty cash fund.
Staffing
Project financial management will be undertaken by UNDP's Business Center (BC), a specialized unit
that supports development projects in financial/administrative functions (procurement, fund management,
recruitment, etc.) During 2001, the BC disbursed US$30 million, including US$26 million in multilateral
funds from IDB, FIDA, GEF and IDA, the latter comprising four credits (Nutrition and Health, Basic
Education, Environment Development, and Rural Land).
Headed by a Coordinator who reports to the Deputy Resident Representative, the Business Center is
divided in two areas: Procurement and Client Services. The latter takes care of financial management
matters and is supervised by a CPA with 20 years of UNDP experience. The BC's accumulated
experience with externally funded projects has favored the knowledge and execution of financial
management and audit practices that are generally congruent with the IDA's respective requirements.
For the proposed project, the draft TORs estipulate the appointment (by, UNDP) of a
Financial/Administrative Manager for the project. This individual would be recruited via competitive
process as required by UNDP guidelines, and would be assisted by Procurement, Financial, Accounting,
and Treasury specialists. As UNDP staff, all would be under annual renewable contracts and would
benefit from UNDP's training and performance evaluation practices.



89
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Administrative procedures will be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made with
consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring
systems. The project accounting system will have the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial
transactions of the project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting
IDA's fiduciary requirements.
Segregation of duties. UNDP will channel financial transactions through its organizational structure and
established procedures, which support an adequate segregation of procurement, payment authorization
and recording activities. Any given commitment and subsequent expenditure requires the signatures of the
committing (certifying) officer and the verifying (approving) officer, who must be two distinct individuals
not in a reporting relationship.
All requests for use of funds will be originated in the PIU, based on the annual operating, procurement
and technical assistance plans. Custody of assets acquired by the project will be responsibility of the
MOH and IHSS.
Budgeting. For every project, UNDP and the Government executing entity agree on a budget based on
the project's expected length and activities to be performed. In the case of IDA-financed projects, the
credit agreements and cost tables are used as the main input for the initial budget.
Budgets are broken down by UNDP's line items, are established annually (based on the operating plans -
POAs-) and reviewed twice per year. These reviews can trigger formal budget revisions.
The accounting system keeps track of commitments by line and does not allow for expenditures over the
approved budget for any specific line item. However, a reallocation between lines can be done for
contracts with the IDA's No Objection. Budgetary execution data are available on real time.
On the GOH's side, the project's budget is expected to be allocated in a straightforward manner: two line
items (external and local funds) for each one of the MOH and IHSS. Based on the monthly project
expenditure reports, UNDP will prepare the draft "legalization" of expenditures, which will be submitted
through the PIU to the Budget Departments at the MOH and IHSS for the formal recording of budget
execution.
For the proposed project, the projections of expenditures (per PAD and cost tables) will be broken down
annually and quarterly. This exercise should be the basis for: (i) for the preparation of the MOH's and
IHSS's budget proposal for the project; and (ii) the subsequent monitoring via quarterly financial
statements.
Payments and operation of bank accounts. Prior to signing a purchase order or a contract for services,
UNDP records the commitment to ensure that the level of the expenditure is within allotted funds. The
verifying officer that approves the disbursements must: (i) ensure that the payment is made against a
recorded commitment entered into by an appropriate committing officer; (ii) ascertain that all the goods
or services for which payment is claimed have been delivered; (iii) avoid duplicate payments; and (iv)
refuse the payment if there is any reasons that should bar the disbursement.
All payments are supported by an official UNDP Disbursement Voucher, the provider's invoice, and the
certification of goods received by the Government agency. Each payee is assigned only one vendor or



90
staff number; to avoid duplication of payments, the "payment history" is consulted prior to the
preparation of each disbursement.
The operation of UNDP bank accounts requires two signatories. In Honduras, only the Resident
Representative, the Deputy Resident Representative and the Operations Manager are authorized to sign on
the office's bank accounts.
A cash book is maintained for each bank account and bank reconciliations are performed on a weekly
basis. Both the cash book and the reconciliations are part of the monthly accounts sent by UNDP
Honduras to UNDP Headquarters.
Accounting. Project records are maintained under the cash basis of accounting, with the possibility to
report on expenditures committed but not yet paid.
For every project, the reports on Cost Sharing Contributions contain receipts of funds by financing
source, while the Combined Delivery Reports include expenditures classified by UJNDP budget line. A
combination of both is used to prepare the reports on Availability of Funds per project.
UNDP has developed a "Support Module to Bank Reporting" with the purpose of maintaining project
expenditure information by disbursement category, as stated in the legal agreements with international
financial institutions. This system links UNDP's budget lines with specific categories in the agreements
and will be used for the proposed project. With this objective, the line items per UNDP classification will
be detailed in a manner that permits correlation with the credit agreement's disbursement categories and
project components and subcomponents.
Original invoices are normally retained by the executing entities for their legal purposes. Copies of
invoices and the other accounting documents are duly maintained by UNDP.
Policies and procedures. The UNDP Financial Regulations and Rules govern all aspects of financial
management at UNDP, while the UN Rules of Conduct and Staff Rules and Regulations deal inter alia
with ethical issues. Relevant procedures are documented in the "Finance Manual", the "Procedures for
National Execution", and the "Management of Projects Executed by National Entities". These documents
establish sound internal control, accountability and audit practices.
Safeguard over assets. Since assets acquired by the projects are property of the GOH, UNDP does not
maintain safeguarding responsibilities once the receiving certifications are collected as part of the
documentation requirements to process payments.
For the proposed project, UNDP will keep a subsidiary record (probably in spreadsheet software) of
property, plant and equipment acquired. The amounts in this register will be reconciled monthly against
the respective accounting balances. At least one annual physical inspection will be undertaken by UNDP
staff, preferably with the participation of staff from MOH's and IHSS's Asset Management Units and the
external auditors.
Internal Audit
UNDP's Office of Audit and Perfornance Review (OAPR) is responsible for performing the audit of
UNDP operations (including all financial resources administered by UNDP), for which they have free
access to all books, records and other documents which are, in its opinion, necessary for the audit. As part



91
of this activity, auditors are assigned (an audit firm may be engaged), on a periodic basis, to visit UNDP
country offices.
Resident Representatives must comment appropriately on each of the items raised in the audit
observations within the time limits specified by OAPR. In UNDP Honduras, audit reports are discussed
and followed-up on by the Management Committee.
External Audit
Audit compliance. The Nutrition and Health Project (Credit 2452-HO), executed by MOH with the
assistance of UNDP, is in compliance with audit covenants. There are no overdue audits in the country
portfolio.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the IDA. In addition to the audit opinions on project accounts and Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs), a compliance report will be required to deal specifically with: (i) observance of
the procurement and consultants services provisions of the Credit Agreement; and (ii) eligibility of
payments for subprojects per criteria established in the Credit Agreement and Operational Manual.
UNDP will appoint the auditors during the first quarter of project implementation, with an annual contract
to be renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year. The external auditors must perform at least
one interim visit covering the first half of the reporting period. Audit TORs will take into account both
UNDP's and the IDA's requirements and were agreed by Negotiations.
The UNDP and the PIU will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and
recommendations contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would be
communicated to the IDA.
Since the IHSS is an autonomous entity that will be receiving IDA funds for institutional strengthening,
the IDA will also require the submission of IHSS' audited financial statements.
The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report                               Due Date
IHSS financial statements  6 months after the end of the reporting period (coincides with CY)
Project financial statements  same as above
SOE                       same as above
Compliance                same as above
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government's, UNDP's and
IDA's monitoring and fiduciary purposes.
UNDP's accounting system will be used for producing the Status of Cost Sharing Contributions by source
of funds and the Combined Delivery Report by component, subcomponent and disbursement category
(see Accounting section above). These data will be assembled quarterly to produce the project's
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, a matrix classifying receipts by financing source and
expenditures by financing source, subcomponent and disbursement category. The expenditures would be



92
compared to the projected figures per the quarterly budgets prepared as indicated in the Budgeting section
above.
In addition to the Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, the quarterly financial report will include an
Advance Reconciliation Statement (similar to the SA reconciliation statement). Any difference in the
amount of expenditures reported under the two financial statements must be clearly explained. The
project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the IDA no later than 45 days after the end of the
reporting quarter.
For IDA purposes, the annual financial statements will include, additionally, the schedule of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications.
In addition to the financial information mentioned above, UNDP will report to the MOH and IHSS the
budget execution for each month. It is expected that this information will be easily retrieved, as there
would be only two line items (local and external funds) for the project's budget in each of the two entities
(see Budgeting Section above).
Information Systems
As described previously, UJNDP's computerized MIS is adequate to keep accounting and budgeting
records for the project.
Strengths and Weaknesses
As described above, UNDP has in place a strong project financial management system. Identified
weaknesses will be mitigated by the execution of the Action Plan (below). The Action Plan will be part of
the Operational Manual. The missing elements relate mainly to the timing of the assessment, not to
IJNDP's capacity to fulfill them.



93
Financial Management Action Plan
Action                    Responsible Entity             Completion Date
1. Prepare and sign agreement MOF/UNDP                       Draft: Done by Negotiations
with UNDP.                                                   Final: Before effectiveness
2. Notify the appointment of the  UNDP                       Before effectiveness
Financial Administrative
Manager.
3. Create budgetary lines for  MOF/MOH/IHSS                  Before effectiveness/
credit and counterpart                                       Before commencement of each
expenditures.                                                year of project implementation
4. Disburse first quota of     MOF                           Before effectiveness
counterpart expenditures,
covering needs for three months.
5. Set up the project's chart of  UNDP                       Before effectiveness
accounts in UNDP's system,
using the "Banking Module" to
link line items with disbursement
categories and subcomponents.
6. Establish a subsidiary register  UNDP                     Ongoing through project
of assets acquired by the project,                           implementation
and reconcile on a monthly basis
the total cost shown by the
register with the respective
accounting balances.
7. Perform physical inventories,  UNDP, with participation of  Ongoing through project
at least annually, of the project's  MOH, IHSS and external auditors  implementation
register of assets.
8. Break down annual budgets on  UNDP                        Before commencement of each
a quarterly basis.                                           year of project implementation
9. Agree on the audit TORs and  UNDP/WB                      Completed.
short list of firms
10. Appoint the external auditors  UNDP                      Within first quarter of project
implementation
I1. Agree on the formats for  UNDP/WB                        Agreed
quarterly and annual fnancial
statements.
Conditions
Effectiveness. (i) Final agreement with UNDP; (ii) first quota of counterpart contribution to the project,
covering estimated needs for three months, is disbursed to UNDP; (iii) completion of the FM action plan
items for which target dates are prior to effectiveness (see detail above), and (iv) Project's Chart of
accounts prepared and entered in UNDP's management information system.
Financial Covenants
Section 3. (i) Specify GOH's agreement to UNDP's participation as agency in charge of the project's
financial management; (ii) require sufficient annual budgetary allocations for external and local funds
needed for the project; and (iii) require prompt transfer to UNDP of counterpart resources for the project.



94
Section 4.01 "Standard" wording, plus: (i) audit requirement for IHSS' own financial statements; (ii)
audit requirement for compliance with eligibility of subprojects per criteria established in the Credit
Agreement and Operational Manual.
All audit reports to be furnished to the IDA not later than six months after the end of each year.
Section 4.02 "Standard" FMR wording.
Section 6.01 See Conditions section above.
Supervision Plan
A financial management supervision mission prior to effectiveness is highly desirable. After
effectiveness, a FM Specialist must review the annual audit reports and should perforn one supervision
mission per year.
Disbursement Arrangements
Method and allocation of loan proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
over an implementation period of about five years; the credit closing date would be January 31, 2007.
Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook (i.e., transaction-based disbursement procedures).



95
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure:
Table C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$ Million
1. Works, goods (excluding anti-retroviral drugs in MOH and                  85%
IHSS Subprojects, and pharmaceuticals to be financed under
Category (2) below), consultants' services, Health and Support
Services Provider Fees and/or Training as the case may be,
under
a.  Phase I                                  3.90
b.  Phase ll                                 7.20
c.  Phase III                                2.60
2. Pharmnaceuticals
a. Phase 1                                   0.20                 60%
b. Phase II                                  0.40
c. Phase III                                 0.20
3. Goods (excluding pharmaceuticals)                    1.70    100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures for items
procured through the services of a tax-
exempt procurement agent, and 87%
of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
4. Consultants' Services                                6.80   100% of foreign expenditures, 95% o
local expenditures
5. Training                                             0.90                 80%
6. Audits                                               0.40                 80%
7. Incremental Operating Costs                          0.30                 60%
8. Unallocated                                          2.5
Total Credit:  27.1
Advances. To facilitate project implementation, the IDA would disburse six months of projected credit
expenditures to UNDP (see Funds Flow section above). The Advance is only to be used for eligible
expenditures under the credit; under no circumstances may funds advanced be used to cover the share of
expenditures corresponding to the counterpart.
For replenishment of the advance, UNDP will prepare monthly (in any case, no more than quarterly)
requests for reimbursement of expenditures made. The Withdrawal Applications would be submitted by
MOF as is the practice with the current country portfolio.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Credit withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs
for expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the IDA's prior review (see Table B and



96
matrix below). Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to the IDA of full
supporting documentation.
Expenditure Category             Threshold                  Comments
1. Goods                   Less than US$150,000        Except first contract
2. Consulting Services      Less than US$75,000        For firms
Less than US$35,000        For individuals
3. Training                 All                        Logistics   for     events,
transportation, or per diems
4. Subprojects
o      Small works          Less than US$150,000       Except first two contracts
o      Goods                Less than US$150,000       Except first contract
o      Consulting Services  Less than US 75,000        Firms
Less than US$35,000         Individuals
5. Operating Costs         All
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by UNDP and the Government at least until one year
after the IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last credit withdrawal was
made. Such documents must be available to review by the external auditors and IDA staff.
Other procedures. Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the Bank's approval, payments may
be made: (i) directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works, and services; or (ii) to a
commercial bank for expenditures against a World Bank Special Commitment covering a commercial
bank's letter of credit.



97
Annex 7
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24 months
First IDA mission (identification)              March 2000
Appraisal mission departure                     October 2001
Negotiations                                    March 2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   July 2002
Prepared by: Maria-Luisa Escobar and Helen Saxenian, Team Leaders
Preparation assistance: IDA staff who worked on the project included:
'Name                                           Speciality
Maria-Luisa Escobar                      Team Leader
Helen Saxenian                           Team Leader
Ricard Lacort                            Economist
Suzana Campos Augusto                    Pr. Operations Officer
Helena Ribe                              HD Sector Leader
Ruth Levine                              Health Economist
Rosita Estrada                           Procurement Analyst (PAS)
Valeria Penia                            Lead Sociologist
Manuel Vargas                            Financial Management Specialist
Eduard Bos                               Senior Population Specialist
Flavia Bustreo                           Senior Health Specialist (Child Health Specialist, Secondee
from WHO)
Isabel Danel                              Senior Health Specialist (Reproductive Health Specialist from
U.S. Centers for Disease Control)
Reynaldo Pastor                           Sr. Counsel
Morag Van Praag                          Sr. Disbursement Officer
M6nica Rojas de Arnez                    Disbursement Analyst
Alvaro Salas                             Consultant
James Cercone                            Economist, Consultant
Maria Colchao                            Program Assistant
Alejandro Yepes                          Program Assistant
Mary Dowling                             Team Assistant
Ricardo Bitran                           Consultant
Alfredo Privado                           Consultant
Fabio Duran Valverde                     Consultant
Jaime Silva                              Consultant
Luis F. Coronado                          Consultant



98
Government Team
Name                                            Title
Dr. Elias Lizardo                       Minister of Health
Dr. Humberto Cosenza                    Ministry of Health. Coordination for External Financing
Lic. German Leitzelar                   Minister of Labor
Lic. Hugo Castillo                      Vice Ministro de Finanzas
Dr. Richard Zablah                      Director del IHSS
Glenda Ruiz                              Consultant, MOH
Rebeca Santos                            Consultant, IHSS
IHSS Board Members                      IHSS
IDA Staff consulted in the process: Armando Araujo, Jaime Roman, Vladimir Jadrijevic (LCOPR);
Augusto Carvhallo (LEGLA); Douglas Arnold, Livio Pino (LCOAA); Ayse Akin-Karasapan (MDC);
J. Humberto Lopez (LCC2C).
Peer Reviewers:          Christopher Walker, Lead Specialist, HDNHE
John Langenbrunner, Sr. Health Economist, HDNHE
Gerard La Forgia, Sr. Health Specialist, LCSHD



99
Annex 8
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. IDA Staff Assessments
World Bank - LCR Financial Management Team (LCOAA). "Honduras - Health System Reform
Project: Financial Management Assessment Report". August 23, 2001.
World Bank. Honduras, Indigenous Profile.
Honduras Social Assessment
C. Other
Cercone, James. Estabilizacion Financiera del Instituto Hondurenlo de Seguridad Social y
Andlisis del Impacto Economico y Fiscal del Programa de Reforma. January 2001.
Coronado, Luis F. Instituto Hondurefio del Seguro Social. Evaluacion del Hospital Midico
Quiruirgico. Noviembre 1999
Duran, Fabio. Analisis Financiero y Actuarial del Regimen de Enfermedady Maternidad del
IHSS.
Duran, Fabio & Perez Montas, Hernando. Separaci6n Administrativa, Funcional e Institucional
de los Regimenes Nacionales de Saludy Pensiones en el Contexto de las Reformas Regionales.
Gesaworld, Sociedad An6nima. AnAlisis de tres Hospitales de la Secretaria de Salud (Honduras)
Ministry of Tourism of Honduras, Socio-Ethnographic Survey, Sustainable Tourist Project in the
North Coast of Honduras. Tegucigalpa, 2000.
*Including electronic files



100
Annex 9
Honduras Health System Reform Project
Ckmd Pics       iS2
dWKhhUlsbnrqEi3d     130.10
TcdE1dShwd((a           O.OD
Cf-KtwMv             1XSW
TdcU ftsW z  e+         7%3D
dWdtmhibEnrqid       1,71E193
79R32
TdEi Ulid  (kf
Tdal Udtu d(Oa*         19Z07
TdctkUdsze(AdKe+Ck9     216
19t7
IEtS^R                                        dardAch
Itxja:tD                                               Spn P&           OidbmLbtSShi LS             Usrongf
Rli43                   AbLtdRPdFAM                  S      S    21)          8                 6.8     1
RP403                   BDS    aMS1MMO (MA           S      s    am        1N8                 .9    -12
Foam1E                  (EtK4EKC3FFNIYFCJ            S      U    1E                  7          42     34
RX11397                 FNMNC&MAMP                   S S    S    211         19                131     5.6
FO                      W0VMfY439E           NF   T  S      S    3D         415                49      45
Rom5                    FNRFDISOCL-IIMSIJMNrRFDRilECr S    S    ZD          6                 356    -23
P0R735D                 FNR-SIV                      S      S    19,9       67S                 43    -201
RS75S                   RFlRD                        S      S    1M9        123                 59      1     04
Four"s                 FKMFEDCP6TF4MCNAN)IaAWSFCTh   S      S    23)1                          57.1   -7.3
Ftb5W                   FIW:PLL ft3fr                S      S    1997       4Z3                135      7      7
oa) rt                  &WTANE(LSE  AA9MAKR(UL       S      S    2X2          5                  5     02
Rbak       33Z9     7          1M3    -4     7.4



101
Statement of Loans and Credits
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Honduras
Honduras
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 1/31/2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company        Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 Camino RealPlaz   9      0     0    0     7     0     0     0
1995/98     Elcosa            0      0     0     0    0     0     0     0
1986/99     Granjas Marinas   5      0     0     0    5     0     0     0
Total Portfolio:       14     0     0     0   12     0     0     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2000 Agropalma       7000     0     0     0
Total Pending Commitment:  7000    0     0     0



102
Annex 10
Honduras at a glance                                                              9/13/01
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America    middle-
Honduras    & Carib.  Income      Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       6.5       516      2,046                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    850      3,680     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                       5.5     1,895     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994.00
Population (%)                                        2.8        1.6       1.0     G                              G
Labor force (%)                                        3.7       2.3       1.3     GNI                           PGross
per    I     \.             Iprimary
Most recent esatmete {latest year available. 199400)                               capita                      ennollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)                                                          enrollment
Urban population (IX of total population)              53        75        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 five bitths)               34        30        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             25         9        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   90        85        80
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   25        12        15
Gross primary enroliment (I% of school-age population)  111     113       114            Hondunas
Male                                                110                 116              Lower-middbe-income group
Female                                              112         ..      114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
19i0     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                            2.6      3.0       5.4       5.9
Gross domestic investmentGDP                24.8     22.9       34.0      33.3                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           36.2     36.4       41.5      42.3
Gross domestic savingsdGDP                   17.0     19.5      19.3      19.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   12.2     14.2      22.8      24.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -12.6     -8.4     -11.3      -9.1     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        3.2      5.1        3.0       2.6     savings
Total debtVGDP                               57.4    122.1      91.4      87.4
Total debt service/exports                  21.1      34.9      15.7      17.5
Present value of debGDP                       ..       ..       60.8
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      123.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual gnrwth)
GDP                                 2.7       3.2     -1.9       5.0       4.1         -     Honduras
GDP per capita                      -0.4     0.3      4.5        2.3       1.6         -    Lower-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices           1.1       1.5    -11.2       4.9       9.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growti of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         *o
Agriculture                                  23.7     22.4      15.9      14.9
Industry                                     24.3     26.4      32.3      32.3      f.
Manufacturing                              15.0     16.3      19.6      19.9 f
Services                                     52.0     51.2      51.7      52.7      s 0       es           g          w
Private consumption                         70.4      66.5      69.4      68.4    .10
General govemment consumption                12.7     14.0      11.3      12.1                    GDI     .    GDP
Imports of goods and services               44.1      39.8      56.2      56.2
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exporta and Imports t%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.7      2.0      -8.5       7.6    20
Industry                                      3.3      3.6       4.0       5.0    10 s
Manufacturing                               3.7      4.0       2.6       4.9
Services                                      2.5      3.8       0.5       5.6     0      sf
Private consumption                           2.7      3.0      -0.6       4.7    *o
General govemment consumption                 3.3      1.7       9.8       9.1    20
Gross domestic investment                     2.9      7.1       7.5       3.8                 rExports      Imports
Imports of goods and services                 1.2      3.8       4.3       4.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



103
Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       40-
Consumer prices                                ..    23.3       11.6     10.5    30
Implicit GDP deflator                        13.3    21.2       11.6      8.1    204
Government finance                                                               10
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                               o                              I
Current revenue                              15.2    16.4       19.2     18.3            95    96    97   90     99    00
Current budget balance                        0.8    -0.8       2.6       1.5            -GDP deflator    cCPI
Overall surplusideflcit                     -10.1    -6.4       -4.4     -5.3
TRADE
(US$SrWilons)                               1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          850      865      1,218    1,426    4000
Bananas                                     228     358        38       114
Coffee                                      204     181       256       341     3.000
Manufactures                                 ..       ..        ..       ..
Total imports (cif)                         1.040     990      2.676    2,885    .o00
Food                                        155     145       466       488     10    _                        r
Fuel and energy                             171     168       256       355
Capital goods                               262     126       912       837       o
964  95  96    97  96    99  o0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       94        90       84
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       81        91       93                 * Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..     116        99       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mWilions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Cuffent account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                942    1,020     2,250     2,497     0
Importsofgoodsandservices                   1,127   1,116     3,050     3,313
Resource balance                            -185      -96      -801      -816
Net Income                                  -153     -201      -165     -165
Net current transfers                         16       40       354      447
Current account balance                     -323     -257      -611      -534     lo0
Finandng Items (net)                         245      298       951      554
Changes in net reserves                       78      -39       340       -20    .15
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (USSmillOons)           ,,     110      1,230    1,285
Conversion rate (DEC, local'USS)              2.0     4.1       14.2     14.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composidon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1.472   3.724      4.956    5,157
IBRD                                       152      558       18S      151                     351  151
IDA                                         64       77       831      838
Total debt service                           208      389       420       528             4e7
IBRD                                        17      191        65       48
IDA                                          1        3         6         8                                   216
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             20      211       210       298
Official creditors                         128      225       217        44          1435
Private creditors                          131       31       -42       -34
Foreign direct Investment                    6       44       222       262
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         0                              1e35
World Bank program
Commitments                                181       90        61       164     A - IBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               42       82       273        38     B- IDA    D- Other muiLateral  F - Private
Prfncipal repayments                         4       96        49        35     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   38      -14       224         3
Interest payments                           13       98        22        21
Net transfers                               25     -112       202       -18
Development Economics                                                                                              9/13101






MAP SECTION






j  88-                                 8A6                                    8A
i
IBELIZE
, EtIZE                                                                                       HONDURAS
ROArAN~
j        r                                           LA BAHIA
16 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
GUATEMALA       f 
YRO                                         X     GRACIA5 iA DIOS                             |
co   f     r \ A k ;S [GUACiIiE. AND /
~                                                                           TJTIOTAL TFIT'
-14'   -         \      2   PAZ                                                                              -)ADc ' -"  DfPATN   ITOUNDARIE_
I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e-I
*~t  I@_5   E IlJ  I  . I    I             i!JSECONDArRY ROCDS
EL SALVADOR          >'               tJ    H    9-       .                            AtDD
T. oSnSalvdo ,   V       EAL)            }                            M, AIN AIRPORTS
' ce el ) _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                 *'  C 4lIPs.
---- ;                \ 5                                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 001) ANlD GXREA TEP POPlLILTI111 
:s.rE-E:La zHo -|-l,]5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NICARAGUA             G) .DEPARTPAIENT i;-APITAL5 sru^e l 
SL vEi > .. -,,, r, r * , i.,,; ij3 t4ATIOrJAL ;. Ai17rit .* ,,. ,><_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATONA rA  J-
O   ,.>                         ')  <''  j    5   iUUK.P.r.=,;,       -    GEPARr,#,tNT eOUNOARIES           1 rb moF :Jw SII~~~~~)A K-t .,  DPARMEN BONDAIE  p l
C)  bloi' ^  s.lrws       I  . I  _  I   I      j       I      _,  _, ~~~~~~~~~~~~IrTEPNALTI.)tNL LOUN0r^D4411ES  .,. o  ''
W   .  X-\  .   iJ   uS   5t   :   1;51|e.1.1M.              '' '~ ''F';-^.e  .1 . .E  r0
; .r
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 



