      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



                                                                                                                   Report Number : ICRR0020041


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P107407                                                 JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Jamaica                                                 Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-78150                                             31-Mar-2014                                                                16,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  24-Nov-2009                                            31-Mar-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                             16,000,000.00                                                              0.00

  Revised Commitment                                              15,952,815.97                                                              0.00

  Actual                                                          15,952,815.97                                                              0.00




 Sector(s)
 General education sector(92%):Public administration- Education(8%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for the knowledge economy(100%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Salim J. Habayeb                    Judyth L. Twigg                      Joy Behrens                          IEGPS2




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The objective of the Project was "to build the capacity of the emerging key agencies (National Education Inspectorate, Jamaica Teaching
    Council, Regional Educational Authorities, and National Education Trust) that are being established to support the national Education System
    Transformation Programme (ESTP)" [Loan Agreement, Loan 7815-JM, p. 5; and Project Appraisal Document (PAD) No. 50283-JM, p. 5].

    With the project restructuring of 2/16/2012, the development objective was modified as follows: "The objective of the Project is to build the
    capacity of key agencies established to support the National Education System Transformation Programme (ESTP)" [Restructuring Paper,
    1/26/2012, p. ii]. While the project objective remained materially the same, restructuring expanded the scope of the project to develop a
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



     central policy agency at the ministry of education (MOE). Also, regional education authorities were transformed into seven regional branches
     of the department of school services. Key outcome targets remained the same. At restructuring, disbursements aggregated at US$4.93
     million or 31% of the project proceeds.
     Because the restructuring expanded the project's scope, a split rating is performed in this Review.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     16-Feb-2012


c.   Components
     COMPONENTS UNDER THE ORIGINAL PDO:
     Component 1. Enhanced Performance and Accountability (Appraisal US$11.7 million; Actual US$11.7 million):
     1.1 National Education Inspectorate (Appraisal US$6.9 million; Actual US$3.9 million)
     Provision of support to the inspectorate to establish a systematic inspection process and baseline data on school and student
     performance.
     1.2. Jamaica Teaching Council (Appraisal US$4.0 million; Actual US$2.9 million)
     Provision of support to operationalize the council for training, licensing and registration of teachers.
     1.3. Regional Education Authorities (Appraisal US$0.8 million; Actual US$4.9 million)
     Provision of support for the setting up and operationalization of the regional education authorities.
     Component 2. Mechanisms to Mobilize Resources to the National Education Trust (Appraisal US$1.2 million; Actual US$0.6 million)
     Provision of support to set up and operationalize the trust, including training in public-private partnerships and a marketing campaign to
     mobilize resources.
     Component 3. Communications, Project Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation (Appraisal US$1.7 million; Actual US$3.2
     million)
     COMPONENTS UNDER THE REVISED PDO:
     Restructuring retained the original components but with modifications to sub-component 1.3 which was re-titled as Central Policy
     Ministry and Department of School Services. The government transformed the regional education authorities, which were not fully
     effective, into seven regional branches of the department of school services. A central policy ministry for education was also established
     to govern the operations of the education system in Jamaica and to separate MOE policy functions from its operations functions.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost
     At appraisal the project cost was estimated at US$16.0 million. Actual cost aggregated at essentially the same amount of US$15.95
     million. The reduced cost of sub-components 1.1 and 1.2 reflects a lower unit cost of inspection, which was originally budgeted at
     US$3,200, but was US$2,200 when implemented. Similarly, the unit cost of training in the regions was lower than original budget
     estimates. The allocations of the original sub-component 1.3 rose from US$0.8 million to US$4.9 million to support the expansion of the
     project scope by adding a central policy entity. The cost of component 3 was revised from US$1.7 million to US$3.2 million to reflect the
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



    administrative expenses of the key agencies for ESTP.

    Financing/Borrower Contribution
    The project was financed through an IBRD loan of US$16 million, and was designed to be 100% financed by IBRD. However, the
    government provided US$12.9 million to the larger reform program during the period 2011-2015. In addition, the Inter-American
    Development Bank provided US$12 million to support other aspects of the reform program during the same period.

    In order to facilitate key actions to move the program forward, the design of financing arrangements provided in-built flexibility and
    incentives by financing the Project through advances under a results-based disbursement methodology, along with
    monitoring against disbursement-linked targets.

    Dates
    The project was restructured once at level-1 with Board approval on 2/16/2012 to expand the scope of institutional strengthening of key
    agencies by including the development of a central policy ministry to facilitate MOE's role in policy and oversight. The main objective
    remained focused on capacity building among key agencies. Allocations for project management were increased to accommodate the
    administrative expenses of key agencies. A second level-2 restructuring on 3/26/2014 extended the loan closing date by 12 months,
    from 3/31/2014 to 3/31/2015, and revised the indicators to better measure results. This extension allowed disbursement of project funds
    at a pace permitted by fiscal space limitations in Jamaica, and it allowed the completion of the installation of National Education
    Inspectorate software.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Relevance of the original and revised objectives is rated high. At appraisal, the PDO was relevant to the new Country Partnership
   Strategy, which was under discussion in 2009 (PAD, p. 4) and approved in 2010. This Country Partnership Strategy emphasized promoting
   growth and strengthening human capital. The PDO was also relevant to the recommendations of the country's Task Force on Education
   Reform (2004) (PAD, p. 2) and to the ensuing Education Sector Transformation Programme (2005) (PAD, p. 3), which aimed to ensure more
   effective and efficient education service delivery, improve teaching and learning, and transform the governance structure of the education
   system (by establishing independent agencies to ensure quality of service delivery and monitor progress on reforms). Also, the PDO was
   relevant to the Public Sector Modernization Programme (2006) (PAD, p. 2) to improve public service delivery by moving operational functions
   closer to the client and introducing results-based management.
   As of December 2015, the PDO remains highly relevant as it is consistent with the National Education Strategic Plan’s (2011-2020) emphasis
   on quality, accountability, transparency, and performance along with the continued implementation of the Education Sector Transformation
   Programme. The PDO is also very relevant to the Bank’s Education Strategy 2020: Learning for All (World Bank 2011), which supports
   education system reform and the promotion of accountability for results. The project supported components of Jamaica’s National
   Development Plan/Vision 2030 (2009) for improving the learning environment and for promoting education system standards, with a focus on
   results. Finally, the PDO is relevant to the current County Partnership Strategy (2014-2017) in its prioritized conditions for sustained and
   inclusive growth, and public sector modernization (ICR, p. 8).




   Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
   High                                                                                 High


b. Relevance of Design

   Relevance of design is rated substantial under both the original and revised objective. The project design was mostly consistent with the
   objectives and with the results framework. The design shows a convincing causal chain for the program elements, such as professional
   standards leading to registration, and leadership courses for principals enabling them to manage the school improvement plans. The design
   was also consistent with international good practices in change programs. Good practices indicate that an effective strategy builds on a
   platform of strong public capacity, notably capacity to formulate policies, build consensus, implement reform, monitor results, learn evolving
   lessons, and adapt accordingly. At restructuring, relevance of design did not change due to the addition of a central policy agency, which was
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



       an incremental key agency supported by the project.
       The project design addressed risks related to stakeholders' anxieties about system changes through inclusion of participatory processes, an
       employee transition plan, and a broad communications strategy (PAD, p. 16). Risks related to gaps in qualified staff were addressed through
       technical assistance supported by the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the United States Agency for International
       Development. The disbursement advances were expected to result in a steadier and more predictable flow of funds given the severe macro-
       economic constraints (PAD, p. 11). Teacher professional development programs and training programs for school leaders addressed issues
       identified in the reports of the National Education Inspectorate. School inspections supported accountability, transparency and performance.
       The project supported schools in the design and implementation of their school improvement plans, and facilitated the work of Quality Education
       Circles to foster continued learning and skills improvement for teachers to prepare them for meeting new licensing standards. However,
       relevance of design was slightly attenuated by policy issues at the level of the regional education authorities. The regional education authorities
       were not fully effective in enforcing systems of accountability and performance in contrast with the department of school services which was
       more effective in driving accountability functions.




       Rating                                                                              Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                         Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Build the capacity of the emerging key agencies (National Education Inspectorate, Jamaica Teaching Council, Regional Educational
     Authorities, and National Education Trust) that are being established to support the national education system transformation program.




    Rationale
    Outputs
    The project developed and applied professional standards for teachers throughout the country. It developed a licensing framework and
    supported an information system for registration and licensing. The project trained 10,000 teachers and 3,461 school board members.
    It equipped 63 teacher resource centers and delivered six leadership training courses for principals and school leaders. The project
    supported school improvement processes by developing a school improvement planning manual and a school inspection handbook,
    training 357 inspectors, publishing the school inspection reports, and passing the School Improvement Act. The project supported the
    national education trust to generate private sector support by developing a communications plan and a marketing and public relations
    campaign.

    Outcomes
    The outcomes indicate that the PDO aiming at building the capacity of key agencies supporting the national education system has been
    substantially achieved. The project has provided a systemic regulation of the teaching profession, and has attained effective school
    inspections and school improvement pathways, while also strengthening legal framework and functions.

    Key indicators reflect strengthened capacity: the percentage of schools inspected that had prepared and implemented School
    Improvement Plans reflecting recommendations made by the school inspections increased from 0% in 2010 to 90% in 2015, attaining the
    target; the percentage of teachers who were registered increased from 0% in 2010 to 95% in 2015, attaining the target; and the percentage
    of school principals who were certified reached 49% in 2015, exceeding the target of 35%.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



 Rating
 Substantial




 Revised Objective
 Build the capacity of key agencies established to support the national education system transformation program.


 Revised Rationale
 Outputs
 In addition to the same ouputs noted under the original PDO, the project provided support to the development of a central policy
 agency and seven regional branches of the department of school services. The project provided technical assistance to the central
 policy agency focusing on change management and organizational development, staff training, training to school support officers, and
 specialist training to support children with special learning needs. The project developed and implemented a performance management
 and accountability system, and acquired and implemented human resource management software. The operation provided equipment and
 software. The project prepared 404 job descriptions for the new structure and provided 180 fellowships.

 Outcomes
 In addition to the outcomes noted under the original PDO, the project has realized the establishment and effective functioning of a central
 policy agency within a restructured MOE in its pursuit of accountability, transparency, and performance, and has separated MOE's policy
 functions from its day-to-day operational functions.
 .
 Additional notes on efficacy (Task Team Leader (TTL) clarification, 12/10/2015). The TTL clarified that measuring a capacity building
 objective and the choice of indicators were always challenging. The TTL highlighted that the ICR assessed the capacity of individual
 agencies and their contribution to program-wide goals. These points are substantiated by the findings reflected in the ICR and discussed in
 this report. Strengthened capacity would also be expected to allow continued enhanced performance of the education sector in the future.




 Revised Rating
 Substantial




5. Efficiency

Efficiency is rated substantial.
The ICR updated the economic analysis carried out at the time of design. The ESTP achieved a net present value (NPV) of 21.6 million real
(1996) Jamaican Dollars and an internal rate of return (IRR) of 9 percent. These results compare favorably with the PAD’s best case Scenario
5, under which ESTP was projected to achieve a NPV of 7.7 million 1996 Jamaican Dollars and an IRR of 7 percent.
The assumptions used on the impact of the program are reasonable. The PAD's assumptions focus on the length of the investment in ESTP,
how it is financed, and the stimulus effect of spending additional resources on education. The impact of ESTP on the economy is traced from
2004 to 2030, with the year 2030 being the final year of Jamaica’s long-term strategy under Vision 2030. The ICR revisits the assumptions
made in the PAD about the impact of ESTP on the economy and makes adjustments. The ICR's analysis uses the following assumptions: (i)
Jamaica’s slower economic growth reduces the benefits by 2% during the years 2009 to 2015, followed by percentages ranging from
1.5% (2016) to 0.1 percent (2023); (ii) better employment conditions for youth increase economic benefits by 1.4% in 2009 and throughout the
life of the reform; and (iii) based on early indications, the costs of the reform are assumed to be about 30% less than originally expected.
Project resources appear to have been used efficiently overall. The different agencies functioned collaboratively while drawing on the
comparative advantages of one another. The project adequately used existing systems and resources within MOE, such as the M&E unit, to
facilitate implementation. The Change Management Unit operated in a satisfactory manner. Project management allocations were increased
from an original estimate of US$1.0 million to US$2.6 million to reflect the administrative expenses of the key agencies for ESTP. There were
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



 occasional issues in the efficiency of implementation, but these are considered minor. There was a delay in the passage of Jamaica Teaching
 Council legislation. There was a procurement delay in the software contract of the National Education Inspectorate, but it was adequately
 managed through a new bidding process and a one-year extension of the closing date, which allowed the completion of project activities and
 full utilization of allocated funds. There were no cost overruns.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             100.00
 Appraisal                                                                7.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                             9.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of the original and revised objectives is rated high because strengthened capacity of the education sector agencies is needed by
Jamaica to undertake and pursue its national education system transformation program, and because of their consistency with the Country
Partnership Strategy and the Bank's Education Strategy 2020. Relevance of design is rated substantial for both original and revised
objectives due to a convincing causal chain, but with some shortcomings in the cost-effectiveness of the Regional Education Authorities.
Achievement of objectives is rated substantial under the original and revised objectives because capacity building of key agencies was
realized, including a systemic regulation of the teaching profession and furthering school improvement processes. The outcome targets were
achieved, but with some outcome indicators requiring more focus. Efficiency is rated substantial as there were occasional implementation
delays. These ratings are indicative of minor shortcomings in the project’s preparation and implementation under both the original and revised
objectives, and therefore the overall Outcome rating is Satisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Development outcomes achieved by this project are considered likely be maintained for several reasons: So far, the government has underlined
its commitment by meeting its budget goals for ESTP financing. Although the government’s fiscal constraints are acute, the prospects for
reliable financing of the restructured MOE and its agencies are reasonably favorable because education and reform of the education
system remain bi-partisan priorities. The capacities and processes that were built, such as registration functions, have been institutionalized, and
the technical basis of related programs is sound. Also, in order to further advance MOE’s mission in the future, the newly built capacities would
need to be sustained. The education reform enjoys public support. Therefore, the risk to development outcome is rated Modest.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Overall, the Bank’s performance in identifying, facilitating preparation, and appraising the operation was adequate in most aspects. The
     operation was grounded in a thorough assessment of sector challenges and the institutional reform plan. There was consistency with the
     Bank’s fiduciary role. Suitable arrangements for implementation were put in place. The Bank’s contributions drew on a multi-disciplinary
     team, including organizational development skills and legal expertise. The Bank was effective in its collaboration and consultations with
     MOE’s partners. There were minor shortcomings in anticipating legislative delays, and in a sharper definition of capacity building indicators.
     The overall quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Implementation support and supervision demonstrated pro-activeness and a collaborative approach with government counterparts.
     Supervision was regular, and reporting was adequate. Fiduciary oversight was robust. The Bank appropriately exercised both rigor and
     flexibility in addressing arising issues. A TTL change did not disrupt the continuity of support. Both the Bank team and the government
     counterparts were focused on results; this was also understandably propelled by the desire to attain disbursement-linked targets (Section 2d).
     Most importantly, supervision was effective in identifying and resolving challenges to achievement of the desired outcomes. The quality of
     supervision is considered Satisfactory.




     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     Government ownership and commitment were firm to achieving development objectives because the government had a high stake in its
     reform agenda, and because education is a priority sector for which the government met its budget targets in spite of macro-economic
     constraints. The education reform fits with the government’s vision on public sector reform and results-based management. Starting with
     the country's 2004 Task Force on Education Reform, wide consultation with stakeholders had contributed to broader consensus and
     ownership of the reform. The fact that the government integrated the Change Management Unit within MOE further enhanced ownership
     and sustainability. The Ministry of Finance and the Planning Institute were supportive and involved in the oversight of the operation.
     Fiduciary performance and compliance with covenants were adequate. There was a delay in legislative processes and in approving
     the National Education Inspectorate's software contract. These constitute minor shortcomings, and government performance
     is Satisfactory.



     Government Performance Rating
     Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Change Management Unit was driven and pro-active. Its leadership understood the importance of change management beyond
   project administration. It embraced a participatory, learning-by-doing approach, with a vision and drive for results. The team was
   supplemented with key staff, hired to undertake the required fiduciary functions. The Change Management Unit supported M&E activities
   and used the data for decision-making and improvement, notably through the process evaluations undertaken for the new agencies. The
   unit orchestrated communications and outreach activities to inform and involve both MOE staff and other stakeholders in the country. It
   was effective in communicating and coordinating with partners on ETSP support. Its performance was acknowledged by multiple
   stakeholders. While there was an initial weakness in procurement performance, the overall performance is rated Satisfactory.




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The overriding objective on capacity building was clear, as was the explanation for such capacity strengthening, where the specific areas of
   support to the key agencies were clearly elucidated by the PAD. The Change Management Unit was designated to oversee project monitoring,
   which was to be carried out in part by the Ministry’s Monitoring & Evaluation Unit and by external experts. The project design envisaged a
   combination of process and technical evaluations to assess the effectiveness of new agencies as they took up their responsibilities, along with
   mid-term and end-of-project evaluations. These evaluations were to provide the opportunity to learn and fine-tune related functions such as
   revisiting time allocations to training modules, using real life case studies for training, improving communication channels, and documenting the
   role of various agencies in the inspection process (TTL clarification, 12/10/2015). The involvement of the Monitoring & Evaluation Unit, which is
   well embedded institutionally, provided added value to ESTP accountability and transparency tasks. The design of disbursement-linked targets
   was appropriate. Some outcome indicators lacked focus. These represented minor shortcomings.




b. M&E Implementation
   M&E implementation was effectively undertaken by the Change Management Unit, the central MOE, and the key agencies. The unit and the
   Bank closely tracked progress and the attainment of disbursement-linked targets. Mid-term and end-of-project summative evaluations were
   undertaken as planned. Process and technical evaluations on reform implementation were performed and provided information and
   recommendations for improved operations, including evaluations of the National Education Inspectorate; an evaluation of Quality Education
   Circles; evaluations of curriculum reform; training evaluations of the National College for Education Leadership principals; an evaluation of
   proficiency pathways; and evaluations of the National Literacy Program and the National Comprehensive Numeracy Program. Results Matrix
   Operational Manuals were created for the National College for Education Leadership and the National Education Trust. The School
   Improvement Plan Manual provided for an annual evaluation. The new Performance Management and Accountability System, which has
   been under implementation since April 2014, aligns national goals and staff goals, and strengthens the focus on results.




c. M&E Utilization
   The M&E findings were regularly communicated and effectively used by key agencies and the central MOE for decision making. Both
   mainstream M&E findings and the monitoring of disbursement-linked targets have contributed to shifting the ministry's focus towards results.
   The ministry was motivated to utilize the findings to further guide its overall mission. An outcome indicator reflected the central ministry’s
   staff positions that were filled based on functional profiles, and another tracked the preparation and implementation of the school
   improvement plans in inspected schools.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)




  M&E Quality Rating
  Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was environmental category "C." No safeguard policies were triggered by the project.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial management arrangements were adequate, including roles and responsibilities, reporting and accounting provisions, flow of funds,
   retroactive financing, disbursement arrangements, internal control, and audit arrangements. None of the audit reports on the project was
   qualified. The financial management staff were experienced and performed adequately. This confirmed the initial capacity assessment, which
   had concluded that MOE’s actions to ensure sound financial management for the project satisfied the Bank’s minimum requirements under
   OP/BP 10.02.
   Procurement was slow initially, then progressed adequately. By 2012-13, procurement complied with agreed arrangements. However, there
   was a delay in the procurement of the National Education Inspectorate software following a change in government. The second evaluation
   process awarded the contract to another well-qualified bidder at a lower price. In 2014, additional staff were hired to ensure timely completion of
   multiple procurements, emanating from the combined financing of government and other development partners, in addition to the Bank, and by
   the end of 2014 all major procurement activities had been completed.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   The capacities of the National Education Inspectorate and the National College for Education Leadership have attracted interest to provide
   technical assistance to other countries and institutions in the region. The operation has therefore generated a positive unintended
   impact consisting of a regional-level recognition of the skills and capacities that were built under the project. Also, this has the potential to
   generate additional funds for the agencies.




d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Modest                              ---
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                        ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         JM Education Transformation Capacity Bui (P107407)



Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Among the lessons identified by the ICR (page 22), two important lessons are noted:

     • Even with delays in adopting legal frameworks, new agencies can be rendered functional and accomplish much in support of sector
     results. Indeed, the experience acquired during the initial years of new agencies' functioning under this project has served to enhance
     dialogue and consensus among stakeholders and inform the fine-tuning of legislation, enabling their optimal performance.
     • Synergistic action of a range of institutions around the goal of school effectiveness and the quality of teaching and learning can be
     achieved if prerequisite factors are in place: an evidence-based design; strong national consensus and shared vision, precipitated by
     extensive stakeholder involvement; clarity and complementarity of roles and responsibilities for achieving a common goal; strong capacity
     and effectiveness of each institution; public recognition and reward of good performance; and strong leadership and a change management
     approach that accommodates learning-by-doing.


In addition, IEG identifies two lessons:

     • A country’s legislative environment will strongly govern the pace of introduction of new institutional processes and frameworks.
     • Taking advantage of learning-by-doing as an operation evolves, and applying appropriate solutions, can positively affect project outcomes.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR captures the experience of the operation with a thorough account of its implementation and performance. The ICR is results-oriented
and the quality of the evidence is satisfactory. The report is clearly written, well organized, and reasonably concise. Its storyline is coherent.
The ICR lessons derive from the project experience. The ICR's overall quality is Substantial.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
