Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H112-SLU 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 17, 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H112-SLU 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 2004, between SAINT LUCIA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Executive Directors of the Association approved on June 
2001 the Caribbean Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program (MAP) 
estimated to cost the amount of $155 million over a period of six years; 
(B) 
the Recipient has prepared, approved and is implementing an HIV-AIDS 
strategic plan for the period from the start of year 2004 through the end of year 2009 (the 
Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Program), which is consistent with the eligibility criteria 
for MAP, and which has as its main objective to reduce the risk and vulnerability to HIV 
infection through the prevention and control of sexual transmission, promotion of sexual 
health and improvement in the quality of life of persons living with opportunistic 
infections, HIV and AIDS; 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the loan agreement (the Loan 
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Recipient and the International Bank of 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), has requested that the Association assist in 
the financing of the Project;  
 
(D) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards financing the Project and, by the development credit 
agreement of the same date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million one hundred and fifty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,150,000) (the Credit);  
 
(E) 
by the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to provide additional 
assistance for the financing of the Project in an aggregate principal amount equal to three 
million two-hundred thousand Dollars ($3,200,000) (the Loan); and 
 
(F) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the grant provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit 
are made, and that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for 
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are made; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend an amount (the Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and are hereby incorporated to this 
Agreement, provided that the exceptions listed under Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
shall apply. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million one hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR1,150,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on January 15 
and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, Section 
2.02 (b) of, Articles III and IV of, and Schedules 1, 2, 4 and 5 to, the Loan Agreement are 
hereby incorporated to this Agreement, and shall remain in full force and effect 
irrespective of the termination of the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications 
in said Articles and Schedules (unless the context otherwise requires): 
 
(a) 
the term "Bank" shall be read as "Association"; 
 
(b) 
the term "Loan" and "Loan Account" shall be read as "Grant" and "Grant 
Account" other than in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and 
 (c) 
the term "this Agreement" and “the Loan Agreement” shall be read as 
"the Development Grant Agreement". 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise 
by the Association:  
 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank with respect to 
any Project-related matter under the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or 
given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and 
(b)      all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank or 
to the Association with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements referred to therein, or of the Development Credit Agreement or 
Development Grant Agreement shall be deemed to have been furnished to both the Bank 
and the Association. 
ARTICLE IV
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan and 
Credit Agreements, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have 
been fulfilled. 
 
Section 4.02. The date November 15, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 5.01. The Ministry of Finance, International Financial Services and 
Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Page  6
-
5
-
Ministry of Finance, International Financial  
Services and Economic Affairs 
Financial Center 
Bridge Street, 
Castries, Saint Lucia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(758) 453-1648
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By /s/ Sonia Johnny 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Badrul Haque 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (a) 
(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.” 
 
