Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7252-SLU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
and  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 17, 2004 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7252-SLU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 17, 2004 between SAINT LUCIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Executive Directors of the Bank approved on June 2001 the 
Caribbean Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program (MAP) estimated 
to cost the amount of $155 million over a period of six years; 
(B) 
the Borrower has prepared, approved and is implementing an HIV-AIDS 
strategic plan for the period from the start of year 2004 through the end of year 2009 (the 
Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Program), which is consistent with the eligibility criteria 
for MAP, and which has as its main objective to reduce the risk and vulnerability to HIV 
infection through the prevention and control of sexual transmission, promotion of sexual 
health and improvement in the quality of life of persons living with opportunistic 
infections, HIV and AIDS; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in financing the Project; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional non-reimbursable financial assistance towards 
financing the Project and, by the development grant agreement of the same date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association (the Development Grant Agreement), the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
one million one hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,150,000)  
(the Grant);  
 
(E) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards financing the Project and, by the development credit 
agreement of the same date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million one hundred and fifty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,150,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(F) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Grant provided for in the Development Grant Agreement be disbursed on 
account of expenditures for the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit 
Page  3
-
2
-
are made, and that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for 
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in this 
Agreement (the Loan) are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(b) 
“Annual Work Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.05 
of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Biomedical Waste Management Plan” means the plan duly adopted by 
the Borrower which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect to the 
Project, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(d) 
“Cooperating Agency” means any legal entity with procurement and 
administrative experience, with qualifications and a financial management system 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(e) 
 “Cooperating Agency Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Borrower and the Cooperating Agency, referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“EC Dollars” and “EC$” mean the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Eligible Civil Society Organization” means a non-governmental 
organization, community-based organization, faith-based organization, an entity in the 
private sector or a local organization (including local public entities and companies) that 
has been selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to 
carry out a Subproject under Part A of the Project; 
(i) 
 “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus; 
(l) 
“HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups” means groups of population within the 
Borrower’s territory which are highly vulnerable to acquire the HIV virus, in particular 
commercial sex workers, patients living with STIs (as hereinafter defined), drug users, 
men having sex with men, and bisexuals; 
(m) 
“Line Ministries” means the Borrower’s Ministries of Education, Human 
Resource Transformation, Youth and Sports, Tourism, Social Development, Home 
Affairs and Internal Security, Public Service, Labor and Cooperatives, and any other 
ministries of the Borrower which may be acceptable to the Bank in addition to, or in 
substitution of, those set forth above; 
(n) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, International 
Financial Services and Economic Affairs or any successor thereto;  
(o) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, Human Services, 
Family Affairs and Gender Relations or any successor thereto; 
(p) 
“NACC” means the Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Coordinating 
Council referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(q) 
“NAPS” means the Borrower’s National AIDS Program Secretariat 
referred to In Section 3.04 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(r) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(s) 
“PCU” means the project coordination unit maintained within MOF, for 
the purposes referred to in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated May 
26, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(u) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(v) 
“Report-based Disbursement” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(x) 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infections;  
(y) 
“Subprojects” means a specific set of activities aimed at responding 
effectively to the HIV/AIDS pandemic, that has been approved by the Borrower to be 
carried out by an Eligible Civil Society Organization under Part A of the Project, and that 
is consistent with the list of approved activities included in the Operational Manual; 
(z) 
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement; 
(aa) 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the 
Project; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(bb) 
“TRIPS” means the agreement on trade-related intellectual property 
rights, Annex 1C to the agreement establishing the World Trade Organization. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
million two-hundred thousand Dollars ($3,200,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the 
premia referred to in Section 2.09 (c) of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.  
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Page  8
-
7
-
Project through MOH and NAPS, with the assistance of the PCU, and with the 
participation of:  (i) Line Ministries for purposes of Part B of the Project; and (ii) Eligible 
Civil Society Organizations pursuant to their respective Subproject Agreement for 
purposes of Part A of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate health, technical, administrative, financial, educational, social and 
environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual (the 
Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, containing  detailed procedures for the 
implementation of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the organization, terms of reference and staffing of the PCU; 
(ii) 
the roles and responsibilities of each agency/organization 
involved in the implementation of the Project and flow of funds 
arrangements when applicable; 
(iii) 
the financial management procedures for the Project; 
(iv) 
standard bidding documents and letters of invitation to 
consultants; 
(v) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the collection, 
disposal and treatment of medical waste, which safeguards and 
actions shall be applied to prevent or mitigate any possible 
negative environmental impact said disposal might otherwise 
cause as a result of Project implementation; 
(vi) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the 
construction, rehabilitation and expansion of health and 
counseling facilities, which safeguards and actions shall be 
applied to prevent or mitigate any possible negative 
environmental impact said construction may otherwise cause, 
such as, in particular, increase in deforestation, pollution of 
groundwater, negative impacts on endangered species, increased 
soil erosion, and encroachment on natural habitats; 
(vii) 
personal health and safety provisions for the handling and 
disposal of hazardous wastes; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(viii) 
guidelines for the preparation of Annual Work Plans; 
(ix) 
the annual work plan for the first year of Project implementation; 
and 
(x) 
details and procedures for Subprojects, including:  (A) criteria 
for the selection of Eligible Civil Society Organizations; (B)  
activities that may be financed under Subprojects; and (C) 
Subproject cycle, detailed guidelines and formats for preparing 
Subproject proposals. 
(c) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.  In case of any 
conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later 
than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall make available an amount in EC Dollars equivalent to one million six 
hundred thousand Dollars ($1,600,000) as counterpart funds for the Project. To that 
effect, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of one hundred and fifty thousand Dollars 
($150,000) equivalent made on or prior to the Effective Date, and a second deposit of one 
hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($150,000) equivalent made on or before May 15, 
2005.  
 
(b) 
Thereafter, the amounts for counterpart funds to be deposited into the 
Project Account by the Borrower shall be based on the amount requested on the 
applicable report referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Advances to the Special Account from the Loan Account will be made 
only upon confirmation that the corresponding amount of counterpart funds have been 
deposited and maintained in the Project Account. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain, during implementation of the 
Project: 
(i) 
a Project coordination unit (the PCU) with functions, staff and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of: (A) 
processing of documentation required for disbursement of the 
Loan, Credit and Grant proceeds (including disbursement to 
Eligible Civil Society Organizations for Subprojects); (B) the 
procurement of goods, works and services under the Project; and 
(C) preparation and maintenance of the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in Article IV of this Agreement; 
and 
(ii) 
a National AIDS Program Secretariat (the NAPS), with 
functions, staff and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the purposes of: (A) coordination and implementation of the 
Project; (B) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (C) 
review and consolidation of Annual Work Plans. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
ensure that on or prior to the Effective Date, the PCU is 
transferred to the MOF in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(ii) 
ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with at least a Project 
coordinator, a procurement officer and a financial manager; and 
(iii) 
ensure that both the PCU and the NAPS are provided with 
adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out their 
responsibilities. 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through MOH, shall:  
(a) 
not later than May 15 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in year 2005, furnish to the Bank for its approval an annual work plan (the 
Annual Work Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter alia
,
(i) the Project activities to be 
carried out by the Borrower during the calendar year following the presentation of each 
said plan (including activities carried out by the MOH and activities carried out with the 
participation of Line Ministries under Part B of the Project); (ii) the Procurement Plan 
and disbursement plan for said Project activities; and (iii) a budget line for Subprojects 
under Part A of the Project; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Work Plan in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 3.06.  (a) For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall enter into an agreement with each Eligible Civil Society Organization 
selected to participate in the Project (a Subproject Agreement), under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the obligation of 
the respective Eligible Civil Society Organization to carry out the approved Subproject in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement (including the procurement provisions in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement) and the Operational Manual; and (ii) the obligation of the 
Borrower to provide the resources needed by the Eligible Civil Society Organization to 
carry out the approved Subproject. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under each Subproject Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail 
to enforce such agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.08.  Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and annually thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
Page  12
-
11
-
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank not later than two months after the date of such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, each report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall appoint and maintain, during Project 
implementation, the National HIV/AIDS Coordinating Council (the NACC) for purposes 
of: (a) advising the Borrower on HIV/AIDS policy; (b) providing guidance in the 
coordination and implementation of the Project; and (c) approving of Annual Work Plans 
and Subprojects. 
Section 3.10.  For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall appoint and maintain, during Project implementation, a committee with adequate 
representation from civil society, Line Ministries and MOH to review and approve 
applications from Eligible Civil Society Organizations to carry out Subprojects. 
Section 3.11. 
Without limitation to the Borrower’s obligations in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the terms 
of the Biomedical Waste Management Plan, in accordance with its terms. 
Section 
3.12. 
(a) The Borrower may enter into an agreement with a 
Cooperating Agency, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Cooperating Agency Agreement), whereby: (i) the Borrower will authorize the 
Cooperating Agency to undertake, on behalf of the Borrower, and the Cooperating 
Agency will so undertake, the procurement of drugs (including anti-retroviral drugs), 
condoms and other pharmaceuticals under the Project in accordance with the procedures 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement; (ii) the Cooperating Agency will undertake to 
keep separate records and accounts in respect of such drugs, condoms and 
pharmaceuticals; (iii) the Borrower may transfer directly to the Cooperating Agency the 
proceeds of the Loan, Grant and Credit as required for the Cooperating Agency to effect 
the payments for drugs, condoms and pharmaceuticals under the Project; (iv) the 
Borrower will undertake to transfer to the Cooperating Agency the counterpart (i.e., non-
Loan, non-Grant or non-Credit funds) as required for the Cooperating Agency to effect 
the payment of such drugs, condoms and pharmaceuticals; and (v) the Cooperating 
Agency will provide the Borrower in a timely manner with whatever information the 
Borrower needs to comply with its obligations under Article IV of this Agreement 
pertaining to Project funds handled by the Cooperating Agency. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations, 
under the Cooperating Agency Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce such agreement or any provision thereof. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
Page  14
-
13
-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
Page  15
-
14
-
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and an initial amount in EC Dollars 
of at least one hundred and fifty thousand Dollars equivalent ($150,000) has been 
deposited therein;  
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by 
the Borrower;  
(c) 
the PCU has been transferred to the MOF; 
(d) 
the Annual Work Plan for the first year of the Project has been approved 
by the Bank; 
(e) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed; and  
(f) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Development Grant Agreement, other than those relating to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
Section 5.02. The date November 15, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance, International Financial Services and 
Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  16
-
15
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance, International Financial  
Services and Economic Affairs 
Financial Center 
Bridge Street, 
Castries, Saint Lucia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(758) 453-1648
 
For the Bank:  
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development  
1818 H Street, N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20433  
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
Facsimile: 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By /s/ Sonia Johnny 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Badrul Haque 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, Grant and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan, 
Grant and the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditure to 
 Category
Dollars
)
SDRs
)
SDRs
)
be Financed
(1) Works 
179,000 
75,000 
75,000 
75%  
 
(2)  Goods (except as 
364,000 
135,000 
135,000 
100% of foreign 
 covered 
under 
 
 
 expenditures, 
 
 
Categories (3), (6), 
 
 
 
85% of local  
 and 
(7) 
below) 
 
 
 expenditures 
 
(3) Pharmaceuticals  
645,000 
225,000 
225,000 
90% until 
 (including 
anti- 
 
 
 
 disbursements 
 retroviral 
drugs), 
 
 
 under 
this 
 laboratory 
reagents 
 
 
 
 Category 
have 
 and 
condoms 
 
 
 reached 
an 
 
amount 
 
equivalent to 
 
SDR600,000 and 
 
70% thereafter 
 
(4) 
Consultant’s Services 
1,196,000 
412,000 
412,000 
75% of foreign 
 
expenditures,  
 
80% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(5)   Training 
85,000 
50,000 
50,000 
100% of Foreign 
 
expenditures,  
 
80% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(6)  Goods and Services 
 required 
for 
 Subprojects 
500,000 
172,000 
172,000 85% 
Page  19
-
18
-
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditure to 
 Category
Dollars
)
SDRs
)
SDRs
)
be Financed
(7) Operating costs 
132,000 
48,000 
48,000 
40% 
 
(8)  Premia for Interest 
-0- 
 
 
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
 
under Section 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
 
2.09 (c) of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(9) Fee 
32,000 
-0- 
-0- 
Amount due 
 
under Section 
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(10) Unallocated 
67,000
33,000
33,000
TOTALS 3,200,000 
1,150,000 
1,150,000
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower to finance reasonable transportation cost and 
per diem
 
of trainees and rental of training facilities, equipment and materials for the carrying out of 
the Project training activities under its responsibility; and 
 
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means the reasonable cost of expenditures 
required for the operations of the PCU, NAPS and other agencies of the Borrower 
involved in Project implementation such as office supplies, communications, utilities and 
commercial bank’s fees (for both the Special Account and the Project Account), which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods, works 
and services under contracts which are not subject to prior review under the Procurement 
Plan; (b) training; (c) operating costs; and (d) Subprojects. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
Page  21
-
20
-
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
Page  22
-
21
-
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account (which, for the purposes of 
this Schedule also includes the Grant Account referred to in the Development Grant 
Agreement, and the Credit Account referred to in the Development Credit Agreement),  
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree the authorized allocation shall be 
limited to the amount of $300,000 until the Bank determines based on the amounts and 
frequencies of withdrawal applications that a higher amount is required for the operation 
of the Special Account, such amount not to exceed the amount of the authorized 
allocation. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
Page  24
-
23
-
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  25
-
24
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in controlling the spread of 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic through: (a) the scaling up of programs for the prevention of 
HIV/AIDS, targeting both HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups and the general population; (b)  
the scaling up of programs for the treatment, care and support of people living with 
HIV/AIDS; (c)  the reduction of the degree of stigma and discrimination associated with 
HIV/AIDS; and (d) the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the MOHE, other 
related government agencies and civil society organizations to ensure the effectiveness 
and the sustainability of the Project. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Civil Society Organizations Initiatives
Supporting Eligible Civil Society Organizations to respond effectively to the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic through the financing of Subprojects.  
Part B
:
Scaling Up HIV/AIDS Response by Line Ministries
Su
pporting Line Ministries to expand initiatives included in the Borrower’s 
National HIV/AIDS Program, including activities for the Line Ministries’ clients and 
their own staff, focusing on prevention of HIV/AIDS and STIs through training, 
education, counseling, behavior change communication, condom promotion and 
distribution, information dissemination,  care for the infected and affected families, work 
place policy formulation (including reduction of stigma and discrimination) and 
HIV/AIDS impact assessments. 
Part C
:
Strengthening the Health Sector Response to 
HIV/AIDS
1. 
Strengthening the technical and institutional capacity of health facilities in the 
Borrower’s territory, through the: (a) provision of specialized training to improve the 
diagnosis of opportunistic infections associated with HIV/AIDS; (b) provision of the 
necessary laboratory equipment and reagents to provide in-country capability for HIV 
testing; (c) provision of care (including home-based care), medical supplies and anti-
Page  27
-
26
-
retroviral therapy for patients with HIV/AIDS; and (d) carrying out of a mother-to-child 
transmission preventive program. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the laboratories of the Borrower’s health facilities 
to ensure safety of its blood supplies from HIV and other blood borne diseases. 
3. 
Carrying out a voluntary counseling and confidential HIV/AIDS testing program. 
4. 
Providing technical assistance, specialized training for health workers, 
pharmaceuticals and laboratory equipment for the strengthening of the STI management 
program, throughout the Borrower’s network of health facilities. 
5. 
Carrying out a national program to promote and distribute condoms among the 
Borrower’s population. 
6.
 
Designing and implementing information, education, communication and 
behavior change programs for purposes of raising awareness and understanding among 
the Borrower’s population with respect to HIV/AIDS transmission, and promoting safe 
sexual practices. 
7. 
Supporting the Borrower to manage health care waste by training health workers 
on proper collection, storage and disposal of medical waste.  
8. 
Strengthening the Borrower’s health sector response to HIV/AIDS infections by: 
(a) developing and implementing standardized protocols and guidelines for HIV/AIDS 
care at all levels in the Borrower’s health system; and (b) strengthening the existing legal 
framework to prevent discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS, especially in the 
workplace. 
Part D
:
Strengthening the Institutional Capacity for 
Program Management
1. 
Supporting the establishment and operation of NACC in the coordination of the 
Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Program. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the NAPS and the PCU in the 
management and monitoring of the Project.  
Page  28
-
27
-
3. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOH and other related 
government agencies’ disease surveillance system (in particular the STI/HIV/AIDS sub-
system), through: (a) the design of standardized protocols and systems for the collection 
and reporting of data, including data on population characteristics, in particular data on 
HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups; (b) the provision of the necessary training, equipment and 
supplies; and (c) the carrying out of research and studies on HIV/AIDS, including 
biological and behavior surveys among key groups. 
4. 
Ensuring equality and dignity under the law to people living with HIV/AIDS, as 
well as promoting access to HIV/AIDS drugs to all who need them, through: (a) the 
provision of technical assistance for the preparation of an anti-discrimination draft bill of 
law; and (b) the provision of technical assistance for the updating of the relevant legal 
and regulatory provisions in order to make the Borrower’s legal framework compliant 
with TRIPS. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2009 
 
through January 15, 2019 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  30
-
29
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (ot
her than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement method or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meaning ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of limited international bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding.  
Page  32
-
31
-
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
5. Procurement 
under 
Subprojects
.
Goods and services needed under Subprojects 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as described in 
the Operational Manual and the Procurement Plan.
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Consultant’s Qualifications. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
said method. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to Individual Consultants. Under the circumstances described in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual 
consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Page  33
-
32
-
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review, in accordance with Appendix 1 to the Procurement and Consultants 
Guidelines. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
