                                           Document of
                                       The WorldBank
                               FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                         ReportNo: 29129




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                PROPOSEDLOANINTHE AMOUNT OFUS$3.2 MILLION
                                              AND
    PROPOSEDCREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR1.15 MILLION(US$1.60 MILLION
                                         EQUIVALENT)
                                              AND
    PROPOSEDGRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR1.15 MILLION(US$1.60 MILLION
                                         EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO SAINT LUCIA

             FORTHE HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROLPROJECT
                       INSUPPORTOFTHETHIRDPHASEOFTHE
 CARIBBEANMULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROLPROGRAM

                                          June 1,2004




CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
HumanDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
Latin Americaandthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective: April 30,2004)
                      Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars
    Eastern Caribbean Dollars 2.68      = US$1
                               SDRl     = US$0.689


                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             April 1    - March31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  AIDS             Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
  ANC              Antenatal Care
  APL           II1Adaptable ProgramLending
  ART
I ARV           II Antiretroviral
                   Antiretroviral Treatment
                                                                   I




  EE               Eligible Entity
  ELISA            Enzyme Linked Immune Sorbent Assay
  EMR              Electronic Medical Records
  ERP              Emergency Recovery Project
  EU               European Union
  FBO              Faith BasedOrganization
  FINMAN           Financial Management
  FMR              Financial Monitoring Report
I GDP              Gross Domestic Product
  GOSL         1   Government of Saint Lucia

                                                         FOR O F F I W USEONLY




            MSM        Men having sex with men
            MTP        Medium Term Plan
            NACCHA     NationalCoordinatingCommittee on HIV/ALDS
            NACC       National HIV/AIDSCoordinatingCouncil




           PLWHA       P e o m i n F W i t h HIV/AIDS
           PMTCT       Preventionof Mother-to-Child Transmission
          1 PPS
            PP        1ProcurementPlan
                       PharmaceuticalsProcurementService

lThisdocument hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  1                   "
,  STD            Sexually TransmittedDisease
   STI            Sexually TransmittedInfection
   TB             Tuberculosis
   TOR            Terms of Reference
   TRIPS          Trade-RelatedIntellectualProperty Rights
   UNAIDS         UnitedNation's Programon HIV/AIDS
   UNICEF         UnitedNationsChildren's Fund
   UPS            UninterruptedPower Supply
   USAID          UnitedStates Agency for IntemationalDevelopment
   USD            US Dollars
   UWI            Universityof West Indies
   VCT            Voluntary CounselingandTesting
   VOIP           Voice over InternetProtocol
   VPN            Virtual PrivateNetwork
   WAN            Wide Area Network
   WB             World Bank
   WHO            World HealthOrganization
   WTO            WorldTrade Organization




      Vice President:                   Davidde Ferranti
     Country Managermirector:           Caroline D. Anstey
      Sector Director:                  Ana-Maria Arriagada
      Sector Manager:                   EvangelineJavier
      Sector Leader:                    William Experton
     Task Team Leader:                  Marv T. Mulusa

                                                        SAINTLUCIA
                  HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROLPROJECT

                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page
A.                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                     1
 2. RATIONALE
  1.STRATEGICAND SECTORISSUES ..............................................................................................
                   CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                    ......................................................................
      COUNTRY
                   FOR BANKINVOLVEMENT                        ..................................................................................     2

B.3. HIGHERLEVEL        OBJECTIVESTO WHICH THEPROJECT CONTRIBUTES                                             ...................................... 3
  1.PROJECT INSTRUMENT.......................................................................................................... 3
               DESCRIPTION.................................................................................................... -3
     LENDING
 2 .. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE AND PHASES                       .......................................................................................
                                                                                                ................................................... 53

 4. PROJECT COMPONENTS .........................................................................................................
 3    PROJECTDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVEAND KEY INDICATORS
                                                                                                                                                     5
 5. LESSONS     LEARNED AND REFLECTEDINTHE PROJECTDESIGN                                            ...............................................  9
                                                                                                  ...............................................    10
C. IMPLEMENTATION
 6. ALTERNATIVES         CONSIDEREDAND REASONS FOR REJECTION
                                                                                                                                                    11
  1.                            ............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                     11
 2. INSTITUTIONAL
     PARTNERSHIPARRANGEMENTS (IF APPLICABLE) ................................................................
                         AND IMPLEMENTATION                     ARRANGEMENTS                 ...................................................     11
 3 .                 AND                                                                                                                             12
 4. SUSTAINAB~~~Y
     MONITORING EVALUATIONOFOUTCOMES/RESULTS...................................................
                           ................................................................................................................. 12
 5 .  CRITICAL  RISKSAND POSSIBLECONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS                                         ..................................................    13
                                                                        ......................................................................
D. APPRAISALSUMMARY....................................................................................................
 6. LOAN~REDIT        CONDITIONS            AND COVENANTS                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                                                     14

 2. TECHNICAL.........................................................................................................................
  1. ECONOMIC FINANCIAL ANALYSES ...............................................................................
                  AND                                                                                                                                14
                                                                                                                                                     15
                 .......................................................................................................................... 15
 4.
 3. FIDUCIARY
      SOCIAL ...............................................................................................................................         16
 5. ENV~ONMENT          .................................................................................................................... 17
                                   ......................................................................................................... 18
 7. POLICYEXCEPTIONS READINESS
 6.   SAFEGUARD POLICIES
                                  AND                         ................................................................................       18

ANNEX1: COUNTRY AND SECTORORPROGRAMBACKGROUND                                    ....................................................       19
ANNEX2: MAJOR  RELATEDPROJECTSFINANCED                    BYTHEBANKAND/OR OTHER AGENCIES                                          ..........23
ANNEX3: EVALUATION MONITORING
                   AND                          FRAMEWORK              ..............................................................      24
ANNEX4: DETAILED PROJECT   DESCRIPTION            .................................................................................. 43
ANNEX5: PROJECT COSTS..............................................................................................................        49
ANNEX6: LNSTITUTIONALANDIMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                      ..............................................     50
ANNEX7: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTANDDISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS.................................                                                   58

ANNEX9: ECONOMIC FINANCIALANALYSIS ..........................................................................
ANNEX8: PROCUREMENT...............................................................................................................         64
                 AND                                                                                                                       74
ANNEX10:SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES           ......................................................................................... 80
ANNEX11: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION..................................................................                               89

ANNEX13: STATEMENTOFLOANS CREDnrS...........................................................................
ANNEX12: DOCUMENTSTHEPROJECT ...............................................................................
                   IN                        FILE                                                                                          90
                                  AND                                                                                                      91
ANNEX14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE        ............................................................................................... 92

MAPNo.IBRD26634

                                            ST. LUCIA

                       ST. LUCIA HIV/AIDS PREVENTION& CONTROL

                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                              LCSHH

Date: June 1,2004                                  Team Leader: Mary T. Mulusa
Country Director: Caroline D.Anstey                Sectors HIVIAIDSIHT -Targeted Health
Sector MangerDirector: Ana MariaArriagada          Themes: FightingCommunicable
                                                   Diseases/HIV/AIDS (P)
Project ID: PO76795                                Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                   Assessment
LendingInstrument: Adaptable Program Loan          Safeguard screening category: B
                                       Project FinancingData
[XILoan     [XICredit    [XIGrant [ ] Guarantee         [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 6.40
Proposed terms:
IBRDLoan(US$3.2 million): 5 years graceperiod: 15years repayment 0.85% per annum commitment
charge for 4 years and0.75% thereafter.
IDACredit (SDR 1.15 million): maturity 35 years; 0.75% per annumcommitment charge.
IDA Grant (SDR 1.15 million): Terms waived for 2004 per IDA Grants FY04 Implementation
Guidelines.




DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                              1.oo              0.60               1.60
ASSOCIATION
IDAGRANTFORHIV/AIDS                                    1.oo              0.60               1.60
FinancingGap                                          0.00               0.00               0.00
Total:                                                4.99                3.01              8.00
Borrower:
Government of St. Lucia
Ministry of Finance
Financial Center, Bridge Street
Castries
St. Lucia
Tel: 758-468-5502      Fax: 758-452-6700
Responsible Agency:
Ministry of Health
StanislausJames Building, Waterfront
Castries
St. Lucia
Tel: 758-453-6966      Fax: 758-452-5655

Expected effectiveness date: October 30, 2004
Expected closing date: June 30,2009

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects? o No
Ref. PAD A.3
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Ref. PAD 0.7
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                  No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 N/A
                                                                             N/A
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?    o Yes
Ref. PAD C.5
Does the project meet the Regionalcriteria for readinessfor implementation?   o Yes
Ref. PAD 0.7

Project description Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical Annex 4

The Project will finance four Components as follows:

Component 1. Community and CivilSociety Initiatives(US$0.75 Million).
Theproject will empower civil society groups to respondeffectively to the HIV/AIDS epidemic by
providing support to communities andto groups that are normally difficult to reach through regular
public services particularly highrisk commercial sex workers (CSW), men having sex with men (MSM),
prisoners and vulnerable groups (orphans and youth).

Component 2: Line Ministry Response (US$0.97 Million).
The project will support line ministries to expand the following HIV/AIDS initiatives for their staff and
the population groups they serve through their official mandates: information, education, communication/
behavior change communication; condom distribution; care for the infected and affected families; and
work place policy formulation including reductionof stigma and discrimination.

Component 3: Strengthening the Health Sector Responseto HIV/AIDS (US$3.59 million).
This component will support strengthening, upgradingand expansion of HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment
(including anti-retroviral therapy) and care services deliveredthrough the healthcare system.

Component 4: Strengthening Institutional Capacity For ProgramManagement, Monitoringand
Evaluation, and Legal Technical Assistance(US$2.66 Million).
The project will support institutionalcapacity buildingfor coordinating and managing the Government's
National HIV/AIDS Program; strengthening programmonitoring andevaluation (M&E); andLegal
Technical Assistance.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation: June 29,2004 under streamlined procedures.

Loadcredit and Grant effectiveness are scheduledfor October 30,2004.

Covenantsapplicable to project implementation:
As referredin Section 5.01. of the Loan AgreementDevelopment Credit Agreement andDevelopment
Grant Agreement, the following events are specified as conditions of effectiveness:
        (a)     the Project Account has been opened and an initial amount in EC Dollars of at least one
                hundredand fifty thousand Dollars equivalent ($150,OOO) has been deposited therein;
        (b)     the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by the Borrower;
        (c)     the Annual Work Plan for the first year of the Project has been approved by the Bank;
                and
        (d)     the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i)
                                                               of this Agreement have been appointed.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
 1. Countryandsector issues

Country andsector background.

Saint Lucia, like other countries of the EasternCaribbean, faces special development
challengesdue to its small size and vulnerability to natural disasters and other external
shocks. It has witnessed several fluctuations ineconomic growth since its independence
in 1979. Initialnegative growthinthe early 1980swas followedby annual growthrates
averaging 3 percent inthe 1990s. The economy experiencedmajor structural
transformation between 1993 and 2001 with the growingimportance of services,
especially intourism. andthe reduction of the contribution of agriculture and
manufacturing to GDP. Annual average economic growth was 1.3 percent between 1993
and 1997,3.0 percentbetween 1998and 1999, and0.2 percentbetween 2000 and2001.
The country faces institutionalcapacity weakness ina number of areas and per capita
costs of basic social and infrastructure services are highdue to the size of the population
(157,775)'.

Government efforts to create a competitive environment inorder to enable private sector
growth and diversification are complemented by strategies with a more immediate assault
on maskedpockets of poverty, particularly inthe rural areas. The World Bank supported
Poverty Reduction FundProject, currently under implementation by the Government of
Saint Lucia, is one of the operations that is targeting the poor andvulnerable.

The Caribbeanregion, to which Saint Luciabelongs, i s secondonly to the Africa region
inadult prevalencerates of the HumanImmune-Deficiency Virus (HIV)andthe
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Surveillance data from Ministry of
Health, HumanServices & Family Affairs, andGenderRelations (MOH) of Saint Lucia,
while having some limitations interms of reliability of data collection, indicate that from
1990to 2001, HIV prevalence among women attending antenatalclinics has rangedfrom
0.6 percent to 4.0 percent, suggestingthat the epidemic inSaint Lucia is still at a low
level. Saint Lucia, therefore, has an opportunity to prevent the epidemic from escalating
and posing a significant problemto its socio-economic development as it has inother
Caribbean countries.

The Government of Saint Lucia's responseto HIV/AIDS has includedprevention
measures and very limited treatment or mitigation, due to, among others, limited
resources available to respond to the pandemic in a comprehensive manner. Inorder to
intensify its responseto the pandemic, the Government has adopted the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan2003-2008. The planis basedon a situation analysis of
HIV/AIDS inSaint Lucia andbroadconsultation with all major stakeholders. The Plan
proposes four main strategies: (1) advocacy and policy development; (2) comprehensive
HIV/AIDS care for all people living with HIVIAIDS(PLWHA); (3) preventionof further
transmission of HIV; and (4) strengtheningnational capacity to deliver an effective
coordinated multisectoral response. The Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control

INational Census 2001.


                                               1

Project will support the implementation of this national HIV/AIDS strategic plan, which
has the support of the political leadershipat the highest level and all stakeholdersinthe
country.

2. Rationale'forBank involvement

The HIV/AIDSpandemic is a global threat to development and the World Bank, together
with other international partners, are committed to intensified action to prevent and
control the pandemic and mitigate its social and economic impact. Saint Lucia's
responseto the pandemic has beenlimiteddue to, among other reasons, resource
constraints anda weak institutionalbase. The following reasonsunderpin the rationale
for Bank involvement inSaint Lucia.

First, the World Bankwill provide additional resourcesto supplementthe national budget
to finance highpriority cost-effective interventions for HIV/AIDS that would otherwise
not be funded. The funding also targets civil society stakeholders who will ordinarily
finditdifficult to obtain fundingfor their initiatives. The Bank support will therefore,
contribute directly to scaling up ongoing initiatives.

Second, the Bank will share lessonsfrom its involvement inongoing HIV/AIDSprojects
includingthose under the current multi-country and multi-sectoral programs inAfrica,
the Caribbean, andBrazil. It will also provide technical guidance and share best practices
(interventions, technology, coordination and implementation modalities) obtained
through Bank coordination with other UNagencies under the auspices of UNAIDS as
well as with other multi-lateral and bilateral donodfunding. The Bank also helps
governments and key partners focus on HIV/AIDS policy issues at national, regional and
global levels.

Third, Bank support through the project will generatelargeexternalities by strengthening
the coordination and implementation capacity of public and private institutions inorder to
builda sustainablebasefor the national response. Project activities are HIV/AIDS
specific but the current health systemi s too weak to ensure their successful
implementation. Successfulprevention and control of the HIV/AIDSpandemic mustbe
anchoredin an effective and efficient national health system. Therefore the project will
also support strengtheningthe national health care delivery systemby upgrading clinical
laboratory services, disposing safely of biomedical waste, buildinga disease surveillance
capacity supportedby an up-to-date informationtechnology platform, modernizing the
procurement, storage and distributionof pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, ensuring
effective collection of bloodand the safe storage, transportation and application of blood
units, andupgradingthe technical and interpersonal communications skills of various
categories of healthworkers.

Fourth, the public health responseto HIV/AIDS must be grounded in a supportive legal
framework to ensure long-term effectiveness. Key parts of the country's legal framework
that needupdating are: (i) ensuring all citizens the full benefits of the civil, economic and
social rights universally recognized as being of important to people living with



                                               2

 HIV/AIDS andto other vulnerable groups; and (ii) the provision of servicesto
                                                     ensuring
 all who need them. The project respondsto the Government's request for assistancein
 strengtheningthe relevant legal andregulatory frameworks inthe two areas.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

The proposedproject i s consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the
,EasternCaribbean Sub-Region of June 4,2001, which identifies HIV/AIDS as an
emerging threat to socio-economic development. It highlightsthe needto support
HIV/AIDSwithin the context of buildinghuman andinstitutionalcapacity. Itis also
consistent with the Caribbean Regional Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS which seeks to
tackle the epidemic on a region-wide basis. The Strategic Plan is supportedby the World
BankCaribbean Region Multi-CountryHIV/AIDSPrevention andControl (MAP)
Adaptable Program Lending(APL) approved by the World Bank inJune 2001. The
Saint Lucia HIVIAIDS Prevention andControl Project will be funded as partof the third
phaseof the APL.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

The project i s fundedthrough a Specific Loan/Credit/Grant under the thirdphase of the
Bank's Caribbean Multi-CountryHIV/AIDS Prevention andControl Adaptable Program
Lending (APL) approved inJune, 2001. The Saint Lucia HIV/AIDSPrevention and
Control Project will receive ablendof IDA grant (25 percent), IDA credit (25 percent)
and IBRDloan (50 percent).

2. Programobjective and phases

The Bank's Caribbean Multi-Country HIV/AIDSPrevention and Control Adaptable
Program Lending(APL) of US$ 155.0 million was approved inJune, 2001. It is based
on the Caribbean Regional Strategic Planof Action for HIV/AIDS agreed among all
stakeholders, includingdonors. The overall development objective of the APL is to assist
the Caribbean countries in: (i) preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS inthe general
population and reducing transmission among the high-risk groups; (ii)    improvingthe
access of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) to care that i s effective, affordable and
equitable within the context of the government health policy; and ( iii)strengthening their
institutional capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS ina sustainable way. Eachcountry's
project under the APL will dependon the stage of the epidemic, income levels, andthe
socioeconomic status of the affected. The APL i s implemented inthree phaseswith
countries qualifying for support after they have demonstrated adequate preparednessto
implement an expandedHIV/AIDSprevention and control programandmeet the
following eligibility criteria: (i)
                                 have a satisfactory national strategic planbasedon the
Regional Strategic Action Plan; (ii) commitment and leadership, (iii)
                                     national                                   an
implementation strategy that is multi-sectoral and involves multiplestakeholdersinthe
public, private, NGO andcommunity areas, (iv) sustainable fiduciary implementation




                                              3

arrangements (financial, legal, procurement and regulatory), and (v) clearly defined
institutional arrangements for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the epidemic.




                                            4

3. Project development objectiveand key indicators

The development objective of the project i s to support the national program that aims to
prevent and to control the spread of HIV/AIDS and to mitigate the socio-economic
impact of the diseaseon the population. The project will use a two pronged strategy:
targeting interventions at highrisk groups and implementing non-targeted activities for
the general population. Successfulachievementof the development objective will be
evident when: (a) national commitment to the HIV/AIDS responseis sustained; (b) HIV
incidence inhighrisk groups i s reduceddue to safer sexual practices ;(c) the quality of
life of PLWHA i s prolonged and improved; (d) care and support are providedto families
of PLWHA; and (e) the degree of stigma and discrimination associatedwith the disease i s
reduced.

Annex 3 presents a list of indicators to measurethe success of the national program in
general and of the project inparticular. Key indicators will track progressinachieving
the desired program andproject impact andoutcomes by measuring: (i) inthechanges
prevalence and incidence rates of HIV/AIDS inthe general population and inhighrisk
groups; (ii) to antiretroviral therapy andto treatment for opportunistic infections
             access
by infected persons; (iii)support for affected householdsandorphans; (iv) accepting and
non-discriminatory attitudes by the population towards victims of the disease inthe
workplace andinthe community.

More specific indicators will monitor the outputs from usingcorrect processes and the
timely inputsthat are causally related to project impact andoutcomes. The following
outputs will be monitored frequently: (i) positive HIV cases identified, counseled and
treated; (ii)STIcases traced and treated; (iii) of condoms distributed; (iv)
                                               number
pregnantwomen testing positive andreceiving antiretroviral therapy; (v) bloodunits
screenedbefore transfusion; (vi) physicians and nurses trained in managing HIV/AIDS
patients; (vii) orphans identified and cared for; (viii) HIV/AIDS IEC messages aired in
the mass media; and (ix) Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) actively engaged inthe
national HIV/AIDS response.

Giventhe important role played by gender relations in HIV transmission, efforts will be
made to disaggregatedata by gender and age so as to provide information for developing
the most appropriate interventions for the different groups.

4. Project components

The project will cost US$ 8.0 millionequivalent andwill be implementedover aperiod
of five years. The project will have four components: (i)   Community and civil society
initiatives; (ii)
                Line ministry response; (iii)Strengthening the health sector responseto
HIV/AIDS; and (iv) Strengtheninginstitutionalcapacity for program management,
monitoringand evaluation, and legal technical assistance.




                                              5

 Component 1:Community and Civil Society Initiatives (US$0.75 Million)
 This component will finance HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support activities of Civil
 Society Organizations (CSOs) including: Non-Governmental organizations (NGOs),
 faith-based organizations (FBOs), community-based organizations (CBOs), women's
 organizations, professional organizations, trade unions and private sector organizations.
 CSOs are effective inreaching HIV/AIDS vulnerable groups inthe community that are
 normally difficult to reach. They also operate mostly at community level with more
 opportunities to interact directly with individuals and communities. The types of
HIV/AIDS activities to be supportedby this component will bedemanddrivenandwill
depend on the proposalspresentedby the respective CSOs. Activities eligible for project
 support include, but are not limited to: delivery of community basedHIV/AIDS
information, education and communicatiorhehaviorchange communication (IECBCC);
condom distributionand/or social marketing; home basedcare of PLWHA; community
advocacy to reduce HIVIAIDS stigma and discrimination; support activities for orphans
and widows/widowers of HIV/AIDS; support activities for people infected and affected
by HIV/AIDS, especially those targeted at PLWHA, including income-generating
activities; targeted activities for HIV/AIDS vulnerable groups includingcommercial sex
workers, out of school youths and single women.

While some CSOs may be well developed andready to implement their respective
HIV/AIDS program activities, others may needcapacity building to strengthentheir
effectiveness. Capacity building activities to be supportedinclude training of CSOs on
HIV/AIDS knowledge andcommunication; training of leaders of CSOs on financial
managementpractices relevant to the implementation of the project; andprovisionof
essential equipment and suppliesfor NGOs. Criteriafor eligibility and procedures for the
CSOs to access project fundingwill be specified inthe Operational Manual of the
project.

Component 2: Line Ministry Response (US$0.97 Million)

This component will support the responseto HIV/AIDSby non-health sector line
ministries. There are basic cross-cutting HIV/AIDS activities which all ministries are
expectedto implement under their respective sectoral HIV/AIDS programs. These
include: development and implementation of workplace HIV/AIDSpolicies; IECBCC
for HIV/AIDS and STDs; condom distributionandpromotion; advocacy to reduce
HIV/AIDSstigmatization anddiscrimination, particularly inthe work place; and
establishment of a support group for HIV/AIDSpatients and their families (either as a
single ministry or incollaboration with other ministries).

There are also HIV/AIDS related interventions that are specific to a particular ministry
andeachministry will identifyits specific HIV/AIDS program needs to be supportedby
this component. For example, populations potentially at riskwithin the sphere of
influence of the Ministry for Home Affairs are prisoners, fire fighters, delinquent youth,
juvenile delinquents and police officers. For the Ministry of Education, Human
ResourcesDevelopment, Youth and Sports it will be school age children and out of
school youth. The Ministry of Tourism's highrisk population groups are commercial sex



                                                6

workers, water sports and tour operators, taxi drivers and street vendors. All ministries
are expected to be implementing their respective HIV/AIDS programs by the end of the
third year of project implementation. However, anumberof ministries are expectedto
participate as of the first year of project implementation: (a) Education, Human
ResourcesDevelopment, Youth and Sports; (b) Public Service and Labor Relations; (c)
Tourism; (d) Social Transformation; and (e) Home Affairs andIntemalSecurity.
Ministries will appoint their respective HIV/AIDS focal points (person or unit) to
coordinate the ministry's HIV/AIDS planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.

Component3: Strengtheningthe HealthSectorResponseto HIV/AIDS (US$3.59
million).

This component will strengthenMOHcapacity to provide technical guidance for the
national responseto HIVIAIDS and more specifically it will strengthenHIV/AIDS
related services for prevention, treatment, care delivered through the healthcare system.
The mainservices to be supportedinclude:

    a) IECBCC. Support will be provided to strengthenIECBCC for HIV/AIDS
        including support for the bureau of healtheducation to strengthenits capacity to
        provide technical support for IECBCC anddevelopment of IECBCC
        interventions usingdifferent media (radio, television, leaflets) for delivery by the
       MOH, line ministries andCSOs.
    b) Voluntary CounselingandTesting(VCT). The project will support the
       provisionof VCT services inall eight health regions of the country. This will
       include remodeling of rooms inselected facilities to ensure confidentialityto
       clients for VCT, equipment (including CD4count machines), testing kits,
       reagents and training inVCT for health care workers.
    c) BloodSafety. The project will support the ministry to ensure safety of blood
       from HIV and other bloodborne diseases.
    d) TreatmentofSexually TransmittedDiseases(STDs). The project will support
       the strengthening of the STD services includingintroduction of the syndromic
       managementof STDs. Drugs and training of health care workers will also be
       funded.
   e) PromotionandDistributionof Condoms. The project will support promotion,
       provisionand distribution of condoms through the ministry's health care
       network, social marketing, other sectoral ministries andCSOs.
   f) Treatment, CareandSupportofPLWHA. Theproject will support the MOH
       inscaling upits services for the treatment (opportunistic infections, STDs, anti-
       retroviraltherapy) and care includinghome-basedcare and nutritional support for
       PLWHA. It will also support the prevention of mother to childtransmission
       (PMTCT) includingthe treatment of mothers with anti-retroviral drugs (PMTCT-
       PLUS). The project will support the strengthening of the laboratory capacity to
       assist inthe diagnosis, treatment and care of PLWHA, trainingof staff, drugs
       including anti-retroviral drugs, equipment and supplies requiredfor the
       managementof PLWHA.



                                                7

        Guidelinesand Treatment Protocols. The project will support the development,
        updating and use of different guidelines and treatment protocols including:
        IECBCC, VCT, STDmanagement, treatment and care of PLWHA (treatment of
        opportunistic infections, anti-retroviral care, home-basedcare, interalia).
        HIV/AIDS Policy and Legislation. The project will support the MOHin
        developing health sector policies that enhance the delivery of HIV/AIDS services
        within the health sector. The project will also provide technical support to
        legislators on issues relatedto HIV/AIDS.
        Promotion of Safe Workplace Procedures. The project will support
        strengthening implementation of safe workplace procedures to minimize
        occupational HIV infectionamonghealth care workers.
        Medical Waste Management. The project will support training of healthcare
        staff as part of the implementation of the Government's biomedical waste
        managementplan, as it relates to the disposal of medical waste createdinthe
        course of delivery of services to PLWHA.
        HIV/AIDS Surveillance and Operational Research. The project will support
        the strengthening of the HIV/AIDS surveillance systemand related operational
        research(See Annex 3).
        Technical Support to Line Ministries and CSOs. The project will support the
        ministry inits efforts to extend its technical HIV/AIDS skills to the non-health
       ministries and the civil society organizations.

Component 4: StrengtheningInstitutional Capacity For Program Management,
Monitoring and Evaluation, and LegalTechnical Assistance (US$2.66 Million)

This component will helpbuildthe institutional capacity for scaling upthe response
through financing of technical advisory services, training, staffing, equipment, goods and
generaloperating costs of the following activities:

a) Strengthening institutional capacityfor coordinating and managing the GovemmentIs
National HZV/AZDSProgram. The project will fund the policy makingand oversight
functions of the NationalAIDS Multisectoral Coordinating Council (NACC) ,the
technical functions of the NationalAIDS Program Secretariat(NAPS), andthe financial
management and procurement functions of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Functions of NAPS that will be supportedinclude: (i)     reviewingproposals from line
ministriesandcivil society implementing agencies; (ii)    monitoring and evaluating
program progress; (iii)  ensuring transparent fiduciary management; (iv) coordinating
information technology applications; (v) providing materials andequipment for the
operation of the Secretariat andtraining its staff; and (vi) supporting the functions of
technical advisory committees that may be formed, as necessary, to advise the
Secretariat. Functions of the Secretariat that cannot be provided in-house will be out-
sourced. Functions of the PCUthat will be supportedinclude: (i)      maintenance of
accounting records, (ii)  processing disbursements, (iii) preparation of project financial
statementsin accordancewith Bank guidelines, (iv) managementof bank accounts, (v)
managementof financial information systems, (vi) preparation and submission of
quarterly financial managementreports, (vii) preparation and submission of withdrawal



                                               8

applications, (viii) coordination with auditors duringthe annualfinancial audit exercise,
(ix) adoption of remedial financial managementactions, as necessary, during project
implementation, and (x) all procurement functions.

 b) Strengthening the Surveillance, Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. The project
will assist the M O H indeveloping and strengthening the Surveillance, Monitoring and
Evaluation Systems, including the implementation of an HIV/AIDS/STD case
managementinformation System(CMIS) andthe required InformationTechnology (IT)
platform. Complementing the technical assistanceof the University of West Indies
(UWI), the Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC), HealthCanadaandother donor
organizations, the project will strengthenthe MOWEpidemiology Unitcapacity with the
implementation of standardizedprotocols for behavioral andbiological surveillance and
respective programmingandexecution of surveys inthe generalpopulation and
populations at risk for HIV/AIDS. The project will finance hardware, software, technical
assistanceand trainingto develop and strengthena monitoring and evaluation systemto
measureperformance of the activities detailed inthe other project components as well as
the output, outcome and impact measuresdirectly related to the overarching goals of the
National Strategic Plan.

c) Establishing a Legal Framework. The project will assess the country's civil,
economic, and social rightslegislation andprovide assistanceindrafting a
comprehensive new act that will ensure to PLWHA and other vulnerable populations,
includingchildren affected by HIV/AIDS, full equality anddignity under the law,
without stigma or discrimination. Itwill also provide technical assistanceto updatethe
necessary legal andregulatory provisions to make the country's legal framework
compliant with the WTO's Agreement on Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights
(TRIPS) ina mannerthat fully protects the public health andthat promotes access to
HIV/AIDS drugs andrelated medicines and supplies to all who needthem.

5. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

This project will incorporate the lessonslearnedinthe design andimplementationof the
CaribbeanAPL and the Africa Region HIV/AIDS APL. They include:

a)       The need for high levelpolitical commitment and leadership. This kindof
leadership is necessaryto confront the pandemic and deal with stigma anddiscrimination
at all levels of society. The decision to establish the NACC to be chaired by the Prime
Minister, as Saint Lucia has done, accords the necessary visibility and stature to the
HIV/AIDS effort.

b)       A comprehensiveapproach of prevention, treatment, care and support.
While emphasis must still be placedon prevention as the most cost-effective means of
managing the epidemic, programs should seek to address the whole spectrum of
prevention, treatment, care andsupport services. The current project for Saint Luciahas
included HIV/AIDS support ina comprehensive manner.




                                              9

c)      Rapidly changing prices and technology. The introduction of antiretroviral
treatment for HIV/AIDShas been acceleratedby the declining prices of antiretroviral
drugs. The project will support the introduction of antiretroviral treatment inSaint Lucia
with the necessarycapacity buildingincluding training of health care workers;
strengthening the diagnostic and laboratory monitoringcapacity andprovision of drugs
and test kits.

d)      Monitoringand evaluation is critical inthe scaling up of the national
response. Strengtheningof bothsurveillance to provide timely informationfor
policymakers on the trends of the epidemic andmanagementinformation for better
program management of the responseis an important feature of this project.

e)      Recognitionof all stakeholders. All key stakeholders are recognized as
important inthe fight against HIV/AIDSand it i s important to ensurethat mechanisms
are put inplace for the participation of line ministries, NGOs andother key civil society
groups inthe design and implementation of the project. This project recognizesthe role
of the above mentionedstakeholders.

f)      Building a strongfiduciary architecture. Priority i s accorded to fiduciary
mechanisms(financial management, accounting, procurement, review and approval
procedures). Contracting out of services i s important where in-house capacity is
inadequate.

g)      Slow start up. Firstyear of project implementation often shows a slow start for
Line Ministries and CSOs. Learning from this lesson, the project developed a detailed
Operations Manual, preparedwork plans for Line Ministries andidentifiedNGOs that are
had activities that were ready for immediate scaling up.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

The following alternative approacheswere considered andrejected:

A health sector investment loan. This alternative was rejected on the groundsthat,
while the health sector accounts for a significant proportionof a country's responseto the
HIV/AIDSpandemic, it is not sufficient for achieving a significant impact inslowingit
down due to the wide rangeof socio-economic factors (social, cultural, economic, legal,
gender etc.) that condition people'sbehavior andfuel the epidemic. There i s a needfor a
multi-sectoral approachthat deals with prevention, treatment and mitigation of the impact
(a significant proportion of which i s outside the direct influence of the health sector).

An operation exclusively targeting highriskand specific vulnerable population
groups. This was rejected because it will not adequately cover the requirementsof an
integrated and open society of Saint Lucia, which has links with other populations inthe
region and beyond. It i s also prudentfor the Government to act swiftly so that the
epidemic does not spread rapidly inthe general population. The project will therefore
support both targeted interventions as well as interventions for the general population.



                                                10

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

Not applicable.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

InstitutionalArrangements.A Cabinet decision datedMay 3, 2004has createda
governance structure for managingthe national HIV/AIDSresponse.

(a) Responsibility for program managementhas been assignedto the National
HIV/AIDS Coordinating Council(NACC) chairedby the PrimeMinister. The NACC
will be accountable to the Cabinet for program results andpresentto the Cabinet policies
and strategies that require Cabinet approval. The Council consists of fifteen members,
eight of whom represent civil society. The Council will set priorities, approve annual
work programs and budgets, prepare an annual report on the nationalresponsefor the
Cabinet, mobilize national and international resourcesfor the fight against HIV/AIDS,
andensure multi-sector support for the national response. The PermanentSecretaryof
the M O His a member of the NACC and the Chief MedicalOfficer (MOH) i s the
Secretary to the NACC.

(b) A NationalAIDS ProgramSecretariat(NAPS) is the operating armof the NACC
and is managedby a Director appointed by and reporting to the NACC via the Permanent
Secretary of MOH. NAPS will support, coordinate andoverseeprogramimplementation
bythe implementing agencies. Itwill be responsible for coordinating technical and
fiduciary aspects of the Project. The NAPS will be located inMOHand will coordinate
all HIV/AIDSprevention andcontrol work programs to be executedby the three
implementingagencies. Its staffing will include skills instrategic planning,monitoring
and evaluation, information technology, communication strategies andepidemiology. An
existing PCUwill carry out financial management andprocurement functions of the
Project. This unithas experience inmanaging two World Bank projects, i s currently
locatedinthe Ministryof PhysicalDevelopment, Environment and Housingand will be
transferred to the Ministry of Finance, International Financial Services and Economic
Affairs (MOF). Its staffingincludes a financial managementspecialist, aprocurement
specialist andadministrative support staff.

(c) The National Coordinating Committeeon HIV/AIDS (NACCHA)-an existing
multi-sectoral coordinating body - will assist the NAPS inreviewing and evaluating
annual work plans of Line Ministries and proposals for subprojects submitted by Civil
Society Organizations to be funded under this project. The recommendedproposals will
be referredto the NAPS for approval and to the NACC for ratification. The NACCHA
consists of representativesof the MOH, Line Ministriesand Civil Society Organizations.

Implementationarrangements: A consolidated annual work plan will be preparedby
the MOH and included inits annual budget for presentation to the Ministry of Finance



                                              11

and Parliament for approval. The work plan will include the MOH's own work plan,
plans of Line Ministries and abudget line for subprojects of civil society groups and the
private sector. These groups will access funding through ademand-driven process under
which the civil society groups will prepareproposalsfor funding from the project.

Annex 6 contains a detailed description of the institutional and implementation
arrangements.

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomeshesults

A full time M&Econsultant within theNAS will beresponsiblefor: (i)       developing an
overall M&Eplanincludingmanuals, implementation procedures, tools, data flowcharts
and a budget; (ii) strengthening the monitoringsystems to ensure sound output and
processmonitoring; and (iii)  validating databy random sampling recording and
aggregating processesandby examining large variations inhistorical trends.

Evaluation of the outcome and the impact of project performance on achieving the
development objectives will be done through periodic behavioral surveys of high-risk
groups, household surveys of the generalpopulation, workplace surveys of arandom
sample of companies, and healthfacility surveys. Baseline markers and targets will be
establishedfor measuring progress. Outcome/impact indicators are listed inAnnex 3.

Monitoringprogram performance and productivity of service providers will be done on
an ongoing basis using managementreporting mechanisms. Service statistics will be
collected regularly at the points of service and reported on a monthly basis to document
progressbeing made and to show variations that occur. Inputand processindicators are
listedinAnnex 3.

4. Sustainability

The following factors will contribute to program sustainability after project completion:

(a) An enabling policy and legal environment with strong political support and
leadershipfor dealing with HIV/AIDS; (b) Government's willingness to revise the legal
and regulatory framework to address issuesof stigma and discrimination andthe ability
to sustainpublic awareness of HIV/AIDS issues ;(c) Implementation sustainability:
development of broad ownership and a strong institutionalcoordination mechanismfor
the expandedresponseto the pandemic andthe involvement of other key stakeholders
(line ministries, NGOs, communities, etc.) inimplementation; and (d) Financial
sustainability over the medium term that will include additional Government budget
allocations and funding from donors.




                                              12

5. Critical risksand possible controversial aspects

 Risk                                       RiskRating        RiskMitigationMeasure
 Inadequatecommitment and involvement       M                 A NationalHIV/AIDS Council chaired by the
 of political and administrativeleadershipin                  PrimeMinisterand including all stakeholders
 the responseto the epidemic.                                 has beenestablishedby Cabinet.
 Project implementing agencies do not have H                  TheNationalHIV/AIDSCouncil andMOH
 sufficient authority, leadership,and                         actively support the National AIDS Program
 capacity to meetHIV/AIDS prevention and                      Secretariat and provide additional staffing;
 control objectives.                                          training and technical assistance .
 Stigmaand discrimination slow down the     S                 A broadrange of interventions that address
 expansionand useof services.                                 stigma and discrimination are supported
                                                              including: IECto different target groups and to
                                                              the generalpopulation; work placepolicies,
                                                              training and sensitizationof leaders at national
                                                              and community level and care givers including
                                                              healthworkers; and, revision of legislation.
                                            M                 Mitigationof this risk entails encouraging the
 ~~
 Some faith-based organizations oppose
           ~




 xoject activities, e.g. use of condoms.                      Government to keep these groups involved in
                                                              the national response. The faith based
                                                              organizations are currently key participantsin
                                                              the national responseto HIV/AIDS.
 Insufficient capacity amongline ministries H                 Focal points for HIV/AIDS have beenappointed
 and civil society groups                                     inthose lineministries that will lead inthe first
                                                              year of the project. Trainingand technical
                                                              assistance to strengthenimplementation capacity
                                                              of Line Ministries and CSOs are SUDDOrted.
 The PCUlocated inthe MOF i s               M                 Reporting relationships, roles and functions of
 organizationally separatedfrom the                           the PCUare specified in the OM and the PCU
 implementing agency (MOH) and the                            has experience in managing IBRD-financed
 PCU supports several projects                                projects.
 OverallRiskRating                          S


6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Effectiveness Conditions.
Project Management: The Borrower will have: (i)       allocated funds inthe 2004/5 national
budget for the project, (ii)   an approved work planfor the first year of the project and a
procurement planfor the first eighteen months of the project; (iii)   adoptedthe operations
manual; and (iv) transferred the PCU to the MOF.

Fiduciary: The Borrower will have: (i)      Appointed external auditors and (ii)  openedthe
project Special Account andthe Project Account for counterpart funds with an initial
amountof US$150,000 depositedtherein to cover at least the first year of
implementation.




                                               13

 D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

 1. Economicandfinancial analyses

 Some studies have beencarried out on the economic impact of HN/AIDS in a number of
countries in the Caribbean. These studies makea compelling case for the economic
benefit from public action to prevent and control HIV/AIDS. A study2conducted by the
UWIsuggests that economic lossesdueto HIV/AIDSwill amount to aboutfive percent
of GDP inJamaica andTrinidad and Tobago by year 2005. The estimated GDP loss is
driven by the numberof HIV/AIDS cases andthe averageloss of income/output
associatedwith those cases. The study forecasts the economic impact of HIV/AIDS by
modeling the impact on: output, labor supply, employment, savings andinvestment, and
spendingon HIV/AIDS treatment. An increase inHIV/AIDS-relateddeaths and
morbidity adversely affects labor supply causing wages to increase. Raising wages and
decreasing labor supply translateinto lower levels of employment. The increase in
expenditure associatedwith increasedHIV/AIDS incidence diverts funds away from
productive savings, which inturn affects the levels of investment that canbe achieved.
Depressedlevels of labor andcapital affect the levels of output from the various sectors
and therefore overall GDP.

As shown by a study conductedby the World Bank inSouth Africa (Bell, Devarajan, and
Gersbach, 2003), using a "humancapital" model: inthe absence of AIDS, the
counterfactual benchmark, there is modest growth, with universal andcomplete education
attainedwithin three generations. Ifnothingis done to combat the HIV/AIDS pandemic,
however, a complete economic collapse will occur within three generations. This
outcome is postulated to be the result o f (a) the erosion of humancapital, especially due
to deaths of adults intheir prime; (b) destruction by HIV/AIDS of the mechanismsthat
generate humancapital formation (HIV/AIDS decreases quality of child-rearing due to
illness; deaths of parentsweakens the transmission of knowledge; children drop out of
school due to loss of parents' income); and (c) the inability (or limitation) of children of
AIDS victims to raise their own children andto invest intheir education.

Furthermore, the economies of the small-island Caribbean states dependon limited
sourcesfor foreign exchange- sources that are also the maindrivers of their economies.
Inthe absence of bufferingor compensatory sectors, eventhe slightest unfavorable shock
has the potential to trigger a downward economic spiral. By simultaneously
compromising both the labor productivity and savings pillars of the economic system,
HIV/AIDShas all the features of anunfavorable shock. The economiesof the small-
island Caribbeanstates are therefore faced with the challenge of not simply the threat of a
negative economic experience, but the very capacity of the economic system to hold
together. Separate analyses for each of the individualcountries that have so far
participatedinthe Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and ControlAPL showed that

* 'HIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean:EconomicIssues-Impactand InvestmentResponse,' WorkingPaper.
   HealthEconomicsUnit, UniversityofWest Indies, St. Augustine, 2000 and 'Modelingthe
   MacroeconomicImpactof HIV/AIDS inthe English-SpeakingCaribbean: the CaseofTrinidadand
   Tobago andJamaica,' WorkingPaper, CAREC/UWI/PAHO/WHO, 2000.


                                               14

  for most, the benefits interms of reducedlosseswill far exceedthe costs of their
  programs, even inthe first year of project implementation.

  Saint Lucia, like other countries inthe Caribbeansub-region, is confronted by the
  challenge of ensuring financial sustainability of HIV/AIDSprevention and control
  efforts. This concern is heightenedby the fact that most countries have adopted a policy
  of addressingHIV/AIDS as a public healthissue, with no cost recovery. Inall country
  projects financed inthe sub-region so far, the introductionof the project will require
  incremental financial commitments of governmentsinthe order of 3-4 percent of present
  healthsector budgets. However, this figure is likely to belower ifthe costs of treating
  opportunistic infections are deductedfrom the calculations.

  2. Technical

  The project is consistent with international bestpractices as recommendedbyUNAIDS,
  WHO and by the Caribbean Task Force on HIV/AIDS. The proposed program is also
  fully consistent with the World Bank's Strategy inthe HNP Sector as stated inthe Sector
  Strategy Paper, as it will help achievethree major objectives inthe sector: (i)         improve
  health outcomes among the poor, who are at a higher risk of developing HIV/AIDS, and
  protect other segments of the population from the impoverishing effects of illness and
  death associatedwith HIV/AIDS; (ii)          enhancethe performance of the health care systems
  inthe participating countriesbypromotingequitable access to prevention, care and
  support services for HIV/AIDS;and (iii) sustainablefinancing for HIV/AIDS
                                                   secure
  programs.

  The project design is also consistent with the UNAIDS andWHO (2003) comprehensive
  approachproposedfor dealing with HIV/AIDSbasedon a balancebetween prevention
  and treatment, for both to work optimally. By supporting the introductionof
  antiretroviral treatment in Saint Lucia, the project will contribute to implementing
  regional efforts for the WHO'Sglobal " 3 ~ 5 "initiative that aims to facilitate HIV/AIDS
                                                          ~
  treatment scale-up at the country level. This inturn i s expectedto actually facilitate and
  strengthenHIV-prevention inseveral ways: by increasing demandfor voluntary
 counseling and testing; reducing stigma andpromoting greater opennesson HIV/AIDS;
  and helping to keep families intact andeconomically stable, thus slowing the growth of
  at-risk populations such as orphans and sex workers.

 3. Fiduciary

 The PCUcurrently located inthe Ministryof Physical Development, Environment and
 Housing, which has experience inprovidingprocurement andfinancial management
 support to World Bank financed projects, will be responsible for fiduciary activities
underthe project and will have overall financial and accounting responsibilities for the
project. To ensure the same level of commitment to all externally fundedprojects, the
PCUwill be transferred to the MOF. Financial management responsibilities will include:
(i)  maintenance of accounting records, (ii)        processing disbursements, (iii)    preparation of

~~




   The goal of providing antiretroviral treatmentto 3 million people by the year 2005.


                                                       15

project financial statementsin accordance with Bank guidelines, (iv) managementof
bank accounts, (v) managementof financial informationsystems, (vi) preparationand
submission of quarterly financial managementreports, (vii) preparation and submission
of withdrawal applications, (viii) coordination with auditors during the annual financial
audit exercise, and (ix) adoption of remedial financial managementactions, as necessary,
duringproject implementation.

The PCU's core staff, which includes the Deputy PCUCoordinator, the Project Assistant-
Contracts and the Project Assistant-FM, i s already inplace and will be supplementedby
additional staff. Loan/Credit/Grant funds will be disbursedto aunique Special Account
(SA)maintained inacommercial bank acceptableto the World Bank. Since accounting
will be centralized at the PCU, no additional Special Account for Loadcredit funds will
be necessary and all financial transactionswill flow directly from the PCU's Special
Account. The PCU will execute all payment orders on behalf of line-Ministries
(including MOH) that will receive financial support for approved activities intheir annual
work plans. The PCUwill also disburse funds to CBOs, NGOs and CSOs to implement
the demand-driven subcomponent of the project. Indoing so, the PCU will utilize the
disbursement procedures applicable to community-driven development projects, as
explained inFiduciary Managementfor Community-Driven Development Project: A
ReferenceGuide (May 2002). The initial disbursementinto the Special Account will be
an advance, and, since the PCUhas extensive experience with financial managementof
World Bank projects andthe preparation of Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs),
subsequent requests for replenishment of the SA will be basedon the quarterly
submission of FMRs.

All procurement will be conductedby the PCU. The project operational manual under
preparation will include details of procurement responsibilities, flow of documentation,
funds andprocedures. The PCUhasprepared ageneralprocurement planfor the entire
duration of the project and an annualprocurement planbasedon the annual work plan.
The procurement planfor each year will be submitted by the PCUto the Bank for
approval, not later than the anniversary month of the prior fiscal year, following a
standardformat which will list as aminimum(i) goods andservices to be
                                                  works,
procured for the year, (ii)their value; (iii) methods of procurement; and (iv) the
                                           the
timetable for carrying out the procurement. The methods to be usedfor procurement are
outlined inAnnex 8.

4. Social

The project is expectedto have positive social benefits for Saint Lucia as it will support
the creation of a conducive environment for addressingsensitive social issues concerning
HIV/AIDS, especially issues around providing assistanceto certain vulnerable groups
such as PLWHA, andsocially marginalized groups such as prisoninmates. Moreover,
PLWHA and their families face continued stigmatization anddiscrimination, which this
project will work to reduce. The project i s expected to have apositive social impact by
assisting and empowering people, communities and institutions to deal more effectively
with the pandemic. It will also support information, education and communication/



                                              16

behavior change communication (IECBCC)that aims at encouraging the development of
positive attitudes andbehavior. Genderroles are important inthe responseto HIV/AIDS.
Dependence and vulnerability of women and girls expose themto increasedrisks as has
beendemonstratedby the increasingfeminization of the epidemic and the relatedrisk of
increasedteenagepregnancies. Interventions will try to address ways of bothproviding
information and empowering the women and girls as well as improving services for them
inbothprevention andtreatment. Similarly, informationand services for menwill be
addressed. Interventions for youth inand out of school will also address the different
gender roles.

5. Environment                                Environmental Category: B

Most of the project activities underthe project are not expectedto generate adverse
environmental effects. Some medical waste i s expectedto be generatedduringthe
managementof PLWHA. There will also be small-scalerehabilitation of existing health
care facilities to ensure appropriate provisionof HTV/AIDS services. Measuresthat the
Government will take to mitigate potential environmental effects are detailed inAnnex
10. Theproject will support the Government to implementthose measures. Of particular
importance i s the needto ensure that healthcare staff are adequately trained on medical
waste management. The project will provide support for such training, improvement in
the legal andregulatory framework, clarificationof management responsibilities and
upgrading of facilities and equipment. On the management of environmental risks of
small-scale construction works, the project' s coordination unit will incorporate
environmental guidelines inthe project's operations manual and standardbidding
documents for civil works.




                                              17

  6. Safeguard policies

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                             Yes                 No
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                  [XI                 [I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                           [I                  [XI
Pest Management (OP4.09)                                                [I                  [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                   [ ]                 [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                   [I                  [XI
IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                     [I                  [XI
Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                     11                  Ex1
Safety of Dams (op/BP 4.37)                                             [I                  Ex1
ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                [I                  [XI
Projectson InternationalWaterways(OP/BP/GP 7.50)                        [I                  [XI


 7. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness

 No policy exceptionsare sought. The project has beenpreparedinaccordancewith the
 provisionsof the Multi-Country HIVIAIDS PreventionandControl Adaptable Program
 Lending (APL) for the Caribbean. The Bank has assessedthe Government as being
 ready interms of having a policy inplace for HN/AIDS that is elaboratedinthe National
 HIV/AIDSStrategicPlan, the commitmentof the leadership,the institutionalframework
 for managementof the overall National HIV/AIDS Programandthe strengtheningof
 project managementcapacity. Specifically, the Governmenthas adopted a new
 institutional framework for coordinatingthe NationalHIVIAIDSprogram. The
 establishment of the NACC will ensure a multi-sectoralresponse. MOH, key line
 ministries andcivil society are representedon the NACC. Provisionshavebeen made
 andbudgetedfor strengtheningthe project's implementationcapacity.




 * By supportingthe proposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determinationof the
 parties'claims on the disputedareas


                                                    18

                  Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                  Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention And Control Project


Strategic context
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the EasternCaribbean Sub-Region of June
2001 (Document No. 22205-LAC, last discussedon June 8,2001), identifies HIV/AIDS
among the areas of proposedBank assistanceas part of humanand institutional
development. The proposedproject, by assistingthe Government inthe implementation
of its National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plani s therefore consistent with the CAS. The Saint
Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention andControl Project will be funded as part of the Caribbean
Region Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control APL that was approved by the
World BankinJune, 2001. The Caribbean Regional Strategic Plan of Action for
HIV/AIDSandthe World Bankreport "HIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean-Issues and
Options'' identify the needfor all the countries inthe region to pursue a broad-based
responseto the pandemic. This project i s consistent with boththe Caribbean regional and
World Bank strategiesfor fightingHIV/AIDS inthe region.

Mainsector issuesandGovernment strategy:
Country and sector background. Saint Lucia, like other countries of the Eastern
Caribbean, faces special development challenges due to its small size and vulnerability to
natural disasters and other external shocks. Institutionalcapacity is limited andper capita
costs of basic social andinfrastructure services are highdue to a small total population of
157,775 (2001 national Census). Since independencein 1979, Saint Luciahas witnessed
severalfluctuations ineconomic growth. Initialnegative growth inthe early 1980s, was
followed by annual growth rates averaging 7 percent inthe rest of the decade. Inthe
1990s growth rates averaged 3 percent. The economy experienced major structural
transformation between 1993 and 2001 with the growingimportance of services,
especially tourism, andthe reduction of the contributionof agriculture and
manufacturing. Average growth recorded was 1.3 percent between 1993 and 1997,3.0
percent between 1998 and 1999, and0.2 percent between 2000 and 2001.

Government efforts to create an environment of improved competitiveness inorder to
permit private sector growth anddiversification are beingcomplemented by strategies
with amore immediate assault on maskedpockets of poverty, particularlyinthe rural
areas. The World Bank supported Poverty ReductionFundProject, currently under
implementationby the Government of Saint Lucia, i s one of the operations that i s
targeting the poor and vulnerable.

Health status and the health care system of Saint Lucia. Saint Lucia's health profile i s
that of a country that has already gone through the epidemiological transition. Diseases
of the circulatory system are the major cause of death, accounting for about 31 percent of
all deaths. Cancer was the second major cause of death in2002 while communicable
diseases andconditions originatingin the perinatal period contributed only 4.1 percent of
all the total deaths inthe same year. Life expectancy at birthin2002 in Saint Lucia was



                                              19

77 years among females and73 years amongmales. The annualrate of population
growth has rangedbetween 1.3 percent and 1.5 percent between 1960and 1991.Between
2000 and 2002, it was estimatedat 1.8 percent. The percentageof the target population
of infantsimmunized underthe expandedprogram of immunization has beenconsistently
high each year (between 88 percent and 100percent) for all vaccinations given.

The administration anddelivery of healthcare servicesinSaint Luciais dominatedby the
public sector, with MOH taking the lead inthe organization of resourcesand services for
the health of the country. Private sector health services are relatively small. Most of the
private health sector constitutes of medical, dental and pharmacy services. Many doctors
anddentists work inboththe private and public sectors. The country is servedby three
acute general hospitals (Victoria, St. Jude andTapion), two district hospitals (Soufriere
andDennery) andone psychiatric hospital (Golden Hope). There is also adrug and
alcohol rehabilitation center.

Saint Lucia is inthe process of implementing a healthsector reformprogram which is
partof the public sector reform which beganin 1995with the reclassification of the
public service. As partof this reform, a minimumpackageof healthservices, which
includes services for HIVIAIDS, will be provided to the generalpublic at no cost to the
user.

The HIV/AIDS epidemicinSaintLucia. The Caribbeanregion, to which Saint Lucia
belongs, i s second only to the Africa region inadult prevalencerates of HIV/AIDS
infection. Surveillance data from M O Hof Saint Lucia, while having some limitationsin
terms of reliability of data collection, indicates that from 1990to 2001, HIVprevalence
among women attending antenatalclinics has rangedfrom 0.6 percent to 4.0 percent.
The majority of HIV infections in Saint Lucia are through heterosexualrelationships. A
small number of infections (estimated at about 6 percent of male cases) are through
homosexual transmission. Vertical transmission is estimatedto account for about 3
percent of all reported cases of HIV. Saint Lucia needs to take action quickly to prevent
the epidemic from escalating and posing a significant problem to socio-economic
development as it has in other countries inthe region.

The Government of Saint Lucia's responseto HIV/AIDS has focused on prevention
measures. There has beenlimited treatment and other mitigationinterventions, due to,
among others, inadequateresources available to respond to the pandemic ina
comprehensivemanner. Inorder to intensify its responseto the pandemic, the
Government has producedthe NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2003-2008. The plan is
basedon a situational analysis of HIV/AIDS in Saint Lucia andbroad consultation with
all major stakeholders. The Plan proposes four main strategies: (1) advocacy and policy
development; (2) comprehensive HIV/AIDScare for all PLWHA; (3) prevention of
further transmissionof HIV; and (4) strengthening nationalcapacity to deliver an
effective coordinated multisectoral response. The Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS prevention and
controlproject will support the implementation of this NationalHIV/AIDS strategic plan,
which has the support of all stakeholdersin the country, including the politicalleadership
of Saint Lucia, at the highest level.



                                                20

The national responseto HIV/AIDS inthe country is ledby M O H which reachesout to
other ministries on HIV/AIDS issues related to the non-health sectors. Other links by
M O H are to civil society organizations includingthe faith basedorganizations andthe
umbrella NGO organization AAF. A national HIV/AIDS program coordinating
committee (NACCHA) has been responsiblefor coordinating HIV/AIDSactivities of
various stakeholders. However, the NACCHA did not have the requisite authority to
coordinate the response. The Government has recently establisheda highlevel national
HIV/AIDSbody, under the office of the PrimeMinisterto address this shortcoming.

Surveillance for HIVIAIDS inthe country i s ledby the epidemiology department of
MOH. Current information available at the epidemiology department regarding HIV
prevalence inthe country i s not sufficiently reliable becauseof the non-systematic way in
which the data i s collected. M O Hacknowledgesthe shortcomings inits HIV/AIDS
surveillance system and has identifiedthis as an area for strengthening duringthe
implementation of this project.

The Government strategy The Government has developed the NationalHIVIAIDS
Strategic Plan2003-2008 to guide its response. The strategic planwas producedafter in-
depthscrutiny of Saint Lucia's HIV/AIDS situation andconsultations with abroad and
representative cross section of stakeholders. Those consulted included representativesof
bothhealth sector andnon-health sectorministries, NGOs, FBOsrepresentativesof
PLWHA, the mass media and young people from different partsof the country. The Plan
proposesfour mainstrategies: (1) advocacy and Policy Development; (2) comprehensive
HIV/AIDScarefor all PLWHA; (3) preventionof further transmission of HIV;and (4)
strengthening national capacity to deliver an effective and coordinated multisectoral
response.

Advocacy and policy development. Under the advocacy andpolicy development
strategy, the country's political leaders will be sensitized to the implications of
HIV/AIDSfor the future of the country. This is also linkedto ensuring the allocation of
adequatefunds for HIV/AIDSprogramming. Inorder to addressthe underlying
determinants of the pandemic, determinants of poverty will also be addressedwithin this
strategy. Among other activities, studies will be undertaken to determine and document
the interaction between HIVIAIDS andpoverty. Furthermore, this strategy will support
the enactment of legislation to protect the human rightsof PLWHA.

Comprehensive HIV/AIDS care for all P L W H A . Within the strategy for
comprehensiveHIVIAIDS care for all PLWHA, two major priority areas of action are
specified. The first area relates to scaling upHIVIAIDS care andtreatment includingthe
delivery of antiretroviral therapy. The second arearelates to elimination of stigma and
discrimination of PLWHA and their significant others. The workplace, community and
healthcareenvironment are areas to be targetedfor reduction of stigma and
discrimination of PLWHA.

Prevention of further transmission of H I V . The third strategy is the prevention further
transmission of HIV. Key elements of this strategy include, the prevention of motherto


                                               21

child transmission of HIV (PMTCT), voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), the
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, the targeting of youth inandout of school and
other vulnerable groups.

Strengthening national capacity to deliver an effective and coordinated
multisectoral response. The fourth strategy of strengtheningnational capacity to deliver
an effective coordinated multisectoral responsehas four elements. These are the
strengthening of the capacity of the surveillance unit, monitoring the HIV/AIDS
situation, empowering NACCHA, andensuringmultisectoral coordination and
collaboration to respondto the pandemic.




                                              22

    Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                SaintLucia HIV/AIDS PreventionAnd Control Project


UNFPA. (US$300,000) A three year project, supportedby UNFPA, targets vulnerable
youths in selected areas of the country. The objective of the project i s to increase
awareness of HIVIAIDS andmeans of prevention amongthese youths through IECBCC
interventions.

Caribbean DevelopmentBank. Economic Reconstruction Program - Rehabilitation of
PrimarySchools andHealthCenters (AR 03/3 SL). The health relatedpartof this loan
will finance renovating fifteen health centers; providingequipment, furniture, fixtures,
supplies and vehicles; providingtwelve staff-months of technical assistance to train
healthcenter personnel; establishing aNationalHealthManagement Information
System; and providingfour staff -months of technical assistancefor the maintenance
system of MOH. The total loan amount for education andhealth is US$6.05 million or
86 percent of the total cost of US$7.07.

Potential additional projects are:

(a) GOSL may obtain funding from the Global Fundsupport to the OECS countries and
US$20,000 i s projected for 2004.
(b)The UnitedKingdomDepartment of InternationalDevelopment (DFID)may provide
support to the regional coordination mechanismfor HIV/AIDS.




                                             23

                              Annex 3: Evaluation and MonitoringFramework
                         Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention And Control Project


          a) Project Evaluation Indicators

          Some prevalence and incidence baseline data will be available by December 2004 from
          three ongoing studies: (i) BehavioralRisk Factor Surveillance; (ii) Seroprevalence
                                                                             HIV
          Survey among Pregnant Women; and (iii)       HIVSeroprevalence SurveillanceamongMale
          PrisonInmates. Additional baseline information will be collected duringthe first year of
          project implementation through a behavioral. Data will be gender-disaggregated. The
          Saint LuciaNational HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan2003 -2008 also provides some
          quantified targets incorporatedin this framework.

          TBC: To Be Collected

 Hierarchy of objectives   Indicators               Baseline and Targets  Means of      Critical
                                                                          verification  assumptions
 CAS Goal:                 Sector Indicators:                             Sector/Count  Other macro
 Reduce risks of growing   Secular trends in                              ry Reports:   economic and
 poverty, especially       income growth and                              Country       social variables
 among vulnerable          income distribution                            Economic      within and
 groups (women,            maintained by income                           Reports and   beyond the
 children, indigenous      deciles, age and                               International control of the
 people, dependent         gender                                         Agencies      government are
 persons)                                                                 Studies       neutral or
                                                                                        favorable
 Economic growth and
 income protection                                                       I
 Project Development Ot ectives Impact Measures
                           National Strategic Plan Indicatorsand Targets I
~Kev Proiect ImDact




                                                         24

Hierarchy of objectives Indicators                 Baseline and Targets     Means of       Critical
                                                                            verification   assumptions
National commitment to
an effective HIV/AIDS
response
                        By 2008, HIV/AIDSintegrated into national
                        development plan

                        By 2008, government allocation for HIV/AIDS         Official
                        increasedto at least 0.75 percent of total          Government
                        government budget                                   documents
                                                                            and statistics
                        Integrate HIV/AIDS into poverty reduction
                        strategiesin 2004-2005 budget

                        By 2006, legal and policy measuresto guard the
                        humanrightsof all PLWHAandtheir
                        significant others inplace

                        By 2008,50 percent decrease inreported human
                        rightsabuses towards HIVinfectedand affected
                        persons.

Prevent andcontrol
transmission of HIV:                   Initialrise incases due to
Reduce incidence of     Number of      current momentumandbetter            NAPS
HIV/AIDS in general     positive HIV reporting will decline by end of
population              cases          project to achieve an incidence
                                       rate that i s half of the 2005 rate.




                                                        25

Hierarchy of objectives   Indicators               Baseline andTargets    Means of     Critical
                                                                          verification assumptions
Public awareness




Prevention within         By 2008, at least 80 percent of workplaces in   Behavioral
Workplace                 public and private sectorswith morethan 25      surveys
                          employees have programs for education among
                          staff

Taxi and minibus          By 2008, all taxi and minibusdrivers'           Surveys by
drivers                   associationsimplement workplace prevention      NAPS
                          programs

                          30 percent of taxi and minibus drivers report   Behavioral
                          increaseincondomuse and 30 percent reduce       surveys
                          the number of partners measuredbetweenthe
                          2005 and 2007 surveys and the 2007 and 2009
                          surveys

UniformedServices         By 2008, all uniformed services (police, fire,  Surveys by
                          prison wardens) associationsimplement           NAPS
                          workplace prevention programs

                          30 percent of uniformed servicesreport increase Behavioral
                          incondom use and30percent reducethe             surveys
                          number of partners measuredbetween the 2005
                          and2007surveysandthe2007and2009
                          surveys

Youth in and out of       By September2008,80 percent of all inand out    School and
school                    of school youth demonstrate knowledge of HIV community
                          andSTIpreventionmethods                         surveys

                          Indicators               Baseline and Targets
Prolong and improve       Mean survival time of  IIBaseline: 2 years
quality of life of people persons with AIDS        Target: 5 years
living with AIDS          from date of AIDS                               NAPS
                          diagnosis

                          Case fatality rate       Baseline: 82 percent
                                                   (2002)
                                                   Target: 50 percent




                                                        26

Hierarchy of objectives  Indicators             Baseline and Targets  Means of     Critical
                                                                      verification assumptions
Mitigate the negative    Reduction innumber     Baseline: TBC         Behavioral
impact of HIV/AIDS on of children under 15      Target: 50 percent    survey &
personsinfected and      years of age that have reduction             NAPS
affected                 lost their mother per                        Surveillance
                         HIVinfectedfemale                            Reports


Key Project Outcomes
                                                                                   (From
                         Median age by which    Baseline: TBC                      objectives and
Advance safe sexual      50percent of young     Target: Increase by   Population   outcomes to
practices among          men and women aged     one year              based        goals)
vulnerable/high risk     15-24have had first                          behavioral
populations              penetrative sex                              survey       Determinants of
                          percent males and     Baseline: TBC         Frequency:   health outside
                         females 15+ years old  Target: Decreaseby    beginning,   the control of
                         with more than one     30percent             midand end   the project
                         sex partner last year                        of 5-year    remain neutral
                          percent men and       Baseline: TBC         plan         or favorable
                         women 15+ years that   Target: Decreaseby
                         useda condom at last   30percent
                         intercourse

                         percent of infected    Baseline: TBC         Household
Create anenvironment     andaffected            Target: Reach 80      survey
that supports the        individuals who        percent of target     Frequency:
infectedand the affected received supportive    population            beginning,
                         Zounselingover the                           midand end
                         last six months                              of project

Reduce stigma and        percent of workplaces  Baseline: TBC         Workplace
discrimination against   with more than 25      Target: 50 percent of survey
PLWHA                    :mployees with non-    workplaces            Frequency:
                         hcriminatory                                 beginning,
                         ?oliciesand practices                        midandend
                         nrecruitment,                                of 5-year
                         idvancements and                             plan
                         Jenefits for employees
                         nfectedwith HIV




                                                    27

Hierarchy of objectives Indicators               Baseline and Targets   IMeans of     Critical
                                                                         verification assumDtions
                         percent of people       Baseline: TBC           Household
                        expressing an            Target: 70 percent      survey
                        accepting attitude                               beginning,
                        towards people with                              mid and end
                        HIV, of all people                               of project
                        surveyed aged 15-49
Parentsempowered to     Parentsare               By 2008,25 percent      Population
communicate with their  comfortable educating    more parents            based
children (both male and their children on        expressing comfort      behavioral
female) on              HIV/AIDS/STI             with educating their    survey
HIV/AIDS/STI issues                              children on
                                                 HIV/AIDS/STI


                        Youth express            By 2008,25 percent
                        satisfaction with        increaseinyouth
                        parental                 expressing satisfaction
                        communication on         with parental
                        HIV/AIDS/STI             communicationon
                                                 HIV/AIDS/STI
Key Project Outputs
Access to VCT           Number of public         Baseline: 0             Facility     (From outputs
improved                facilities that are      Target: 10              survey       to outcomes and
                        staffed by trained                               Frequency:   objectives)
                        counselors providing                             beginning,
                        specialized HIV                                  midand end   The national
                        counseling andtesting                            of 5-year    plan receives
                                                                         plan         sustained
Access to treatment and Number of health care    Baseline: 0             Facility     support of all
care for HIV/AIDS       facilities that have the Target: 3 public and 2  survey       stakeholders
improved                capacity to deliver      privatefacilities       Frequency:
                        palliative care,                                 beginning,   Religious
                        treatment andreferral                            midandend    communities
                        for HIV-infected                                 of 5-year    will not
                        patients according to                            plan         challenge key
                        national guidelines                                           strategies of the
                        Number of healthcare     Baseline: 0                          national plan
                        facilities providing     Target: 3 public
                        HAARTaccording to        facilities                           Current staff
                        national guidelines                                           shortages will
                                                                                      be overcome
                        Number of persons        Baseline: 25            NAPS
                        under treatment and      Target: 334                          Financial
                        care                                                          resources
                                                                                      earmarked for
                        Number of HIV/AIDS       Baseline: 9             NAPS         the plan are
                        cases on ARV             Target: 178                          adequate




                                                       28

   b) ProjectMonitoringIndicators

   Monitoring indicatorsfocus on programmatic reporting of input and process measures to
   be usedby program managers as indicators of project performance.

   Means o f verification are service statistics and reports aggregated from service delivery
   sites.

   Core Indicators are drawn from the UNAIDS Guide to MonitoringandEvaluation
   (2000), the Caribbean Health Research Council"Caribbean Indicators and Measurement
   Tools (CIMT) for the Evaluation of National A D S Programmes" (2003),the USAID:
   Handbook of Indicators for HIV/AIDS/STI Programs (2000), and the Saint Lucia
   National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2003 - 2008.

   Ouantified andtime-specific targets in the table below are taken from the Saint Lucia
   National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2003 - 2008 dated September 2003.

ProcessMeasuresfor Prevention              ProcessIndicators
Activities
Voluntary Counseling and Testing FromJune 2005, all VCT services meet the minimum
(VCT) : reduce the incidence of HIV nationalandregionalstandardsfor quality
infections                                 Number of cases counseled and tested ineach delivery
                                           site by age group and gender
Sexually Transmitted Infections Increase STI services available in three Primary
                                        I
control of STIS
(STI): Improve the accessibility and Health Care Centers to all 8 regions by the end of
                                           2005
                                           By 2008, all clients with one or more STIs who sought
                                                                                              -
                                           treatment for STIs are treated

Condoms: Distribution of condoms Number of condoms distributed nationwide duringthe
improved                                   preceding 12 months divided by population aged 15-
                                           49
PMTCT: FreePMTCT andPMTCT By December 2005, all pregnant women routinely
Plus services integrated into all public counseled and screenedfor HIV status without charge
and private antenatal services             By December 2005, all HIV positive mothers-to-be
                                           provided with free and complete treatment and
                                           guidance
BLOODSAFETY                                100percent of blood units transfused are screenedfor
                                           HIVaccordingto WHO guidelines
                                           0 percent of HIV/AIDS transmitted by blood

PLWHA: Create an environment that By December 2006, all known PLWHA and their
                                        1I transfusions
supports the infected and the affected     significant others have access to peer support groups
PLWHA: Elimination of stigma and By the end of 2008, at least 50 percent of all health
discrimination                            care institutions observing "PLWHA Friendly Health
                                          Care Institution" Policv




                                                      29

Process Measures for Prevention          Process Indicators
Activities
ORPHANS                                  By December 2006 all HIV/AIDS orphans and
                                         vulnerable children receive psychosocial and basic
                                         material support

SUPPORT GROUPS                           By 2006, at least one home based care program in
                                         operation in each health region
                                       ~~




TRAININGANDCAPACITY                      By January 2006, at least one primary health care
BUILDING                                 facility ineach health region staffed with trained VCT
                                         counselorsand offering free VCT services
                                         Number of doctors trained inHIV/AIDS management

INPUT  MEASURES                          National Strategic PlanInput Indicators and
                                         Targets

IEC programs for general population Average number of television and radio spots with
expanded                                 IEC messagesper week
                                        Average number of drama activities in the community
                                         usingIEC methods
Education programs targeting in and From2004, basedon national guidelines, all
out of school youth expanded             instructionin life skills to include HIV and STI
                                         prevention, promote sexual responsibility and address
                                         gender issues

                                         Beginningin 2004, all teachers receive annual training
                                         to increase their capacity to address HIV/AIDS issues
Comprehensive care andtreatment          By December 2008, comprehensive care and
                                         treatment services, including antiretroviral therapy
                                         (ART), available to all health regions
Capacity of Civil Society to respond By 2007, CSOs double their financial spending on
to the needs of PLWHA strengthened       HIV/AIDS over 2004 status

                                         By 2008,50 percent of private workplaces with
                                         more than 25 employees have a program
STI and HIV/AIDS           surveillance By June 2006, systems and staffing of the surveillance
strengthened                             unitcapable of undertakingcomprehensive
                                         HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance
                                         By June 2006, all laboratories performingEnzyme
                                         LinkedImmune Sorbent Assay (ELISA) HIV tests are
                                         linked to National Sureveillance Unit (NSU) through
                                         informationtechnology (IT) platform
Appropriate      institutional     and By December 2004, evidence of increasedHIV/AIDS
management arrangements for the mainstreaming by key ministries under the umbrella
national      expanded        response of the National Strategic Plan
established
                                         NAPSestablished and functional bv December 2004
HIV/AIDS Protocols                       National Guidelines for prevention, treatment and
                                         s u ~ ~ odeveloDedand indace bv December 2004
                                                   r t




                                                     30

DocumentingandReportingOutcomesandImpact

The previous Results Framework contains a list of key indicators that will be augmented
by indicators included inthe NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. Tools to document
outcomes and impact will include:

(i)Behavior Surveillance Surveys (BSS)4 and seroprevalencestudies: youth andhigh-risk
groups, STD patients, CSW, MSM,prison inmates;
(ii)Knowledge, Attitudes, andPractices( U P ) studies of selectedgroups andthe general
population regarding HIV infectionand AIDS;
(iii)workplace discrimination surveys; and
(iv) key informantinterviews.

The HIV/AIDS/STD case management information System (CMIS) and the required
InformationTechnology (IT) platformdescribed inthe next section will be the driving
force behind the reporting of outcomes andimpact. Researchactivities to be financed
would address issuesrelating to the economic and social impact of HIV/AIDS,behavior
changes, ART clinical outcomes, andcost-effectiveness of interventions.

ProgrammaticReportingof Input,Process, andOutputMeasures

Monitoringof ongoing activities andof progressbeingmade is an integral part of
managing the process of delivering a planned and supervisedflow of HIV/AIDS/STD
preventive, treatment and care services. Programmatic reporting provides an answer-
oriented report for managerial purposeson the processesbeingused to achieve the
desired outcomes. A number of activities linked to positive project outcomes will be
defined for ongoing monitoringby the project. Healthcare delivery personnelwill be
trained to ensure the reliability of data recorded for subsequent processing andreporting
to management. The MIS will capturethese data at the point of service.

Prevention activities: VCT: How many, where and how early are positive HIV cases
diagnosed?How many positive cases were counseled?STI:Where and how many STI
cases are diagnosed and treated? Condoms:How many, where and to whom are
condoms distributed?; PMTCT:new cases, cumulative cases, HIVtreatment given and
type of treatment, cost of treatment; BloodSafety:Numberof donors screenedfor
HIV/AIDS and number of positive.

Treatment and care activities: PLWHA:number of new cases, cumulative cases, AIDS
treatment given and type of treatment, number of ART prescriptions, ART expenditures,
Opportunistic infections (01s) incidence rate, number of deaths, time elapsedbetween
diagnosis and death, number receiving 01prophylaxis, number of hospital patient days;
Orphans:number identified, totalnumber identified, numberenrolled, total number

 The BSS interventions would be programmedtargeting high-riskgroups, including laboratory and
seroprevalence surveillanceprotocols for VCT, CSW, MSMwith CAREC support.


                                                  31

 enrolled, number receiving support; SupportGroups:number of groups, number of
 groups with trained counselors, average patientdgroup, number of patients enrolled by
 age and sex.

Capacitv buildingactivities: Training: new and cumulative numbers for professional
 staff, peers, volunteers; number of persoddays of training provided by target group,
number of doctors trained in HIV/AIDS, number of patients seen by trained doctors.

The CMIS will capture these data at the point o f service. Health care delivery personnel
will be trained to ensure the reliability of data recorded for subsequent processing and
reporting to management. The project will support strengthening the epidemiological and
analytical capacity of MOHto monitor the HIV/AIDS situation and to evaluate the
impact of the project, including technical assistance at midterm review and at project
completion.

BaselineData

The anonymous HNseroprevalence survey being carried out with support from
CAREC's Special Program on STIs has a sample design of 660 pregnant women. It will
provide baseline data: i)to estimate HIV seroprevalence rates among women inthe
reproductive age group, ii)to use these rates as a proxy to estimate seroprevalence inthe
general population; iii)to obtain information on geographical and age distribution of
these infections; andiv) to provide data to encourage use of the VCT programme in
antenatal clinics and treatment of infected pregnant women to prevent mother to child
transmission of HIV (PMTCT). Results of the seroprevalence survey are expected by
December 2004.

Another HNseroprevalence surveillance amongprison inmates inSaint Lucia i s being
carried out incollaboration with CAREC/SPSTI inthe Bordelais Correctional Facility
with 443 inmates. Pointseroprevalence on this population will supplement information
about epidemic trends in the general population for estimating general prevalence data
andsupport implementation of voluntary counseling andtesting inthe prison setting to
care for those who are infected. The survey will supplement limited baseline data on
potentially at-risk males in Saint Lucia by age distribution anddistrict of residence.
Results are also expected to be available by December 2004.

A thirdsource for baseline data is the behavior risk factor surveillance survey to be
carried out in2004intwo pilot sites (rural and urban) using the primary health care
infrastructure. MOH, Health Canada andCAREC support the survey and data will be
available inDecember 2004. The data collection instrument has been designed and
includes three questions dealing specifically with HIV/AIDS: Number of "non-regular
partners" inthe last 12 months, use of condom with this partner, anduse of condom in
general. Other data being captured by this instrument deal with noncommunicable
diseases, accidents and injuries, life styles, and substance abuse.




                                                32

Additional behavior-based baselinedatawill be collected duringthe first year of project
implementation.

HIV/AIDS/STD InformationTechnology Platform and Connectivity Network

The project will support the MOWNAPS andthe NACC instrengthening the M&E
system. The project will fund the acquisition andimplementation of an ITplatform
including an electronic medical records (EMR) application integratedto the
HIV/AIDS/STD case management information system (CMIS). The ITplatformwould
integrate current surveillance databases operated inthe NSUinthe M O Hand provide
HIV/AIDS/STD clinical informationfor decision makingat the point of service. The
CMIS will capture demographic andservice provisiondata at the point of service
delivery, manageclinical records online (outpatient andinpatient), abstractdata from
clinical records for monitoring purposes, andreport results frombehavior and risk factor
surveys.

The ITplatformwill:

i)protecttheconfidentialityofmedicalrecordsthroughencryptedtechnology;
ii)improvethequalityofthenotificationandsurveillance informationallowingforcross
referenceanalysis from multipledatabases;
iii)supportdecisionmakingincasemanagement,byprovidingsecuredonlinerealtime
clinical, laboratory and pharmaceutical information at the point of service; and
iv) contribute to the National Universal HealthCare Systemby generating a patient and
family registry andunique identification (ID)linked to the NationalInsuranceScheme
(NIS), providingalso costing and reimbursement mechanismsbasedon discharges and
coded procedures [Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs) andthe ICD9-CM'] .

The systemwould provide real time laboratory and clinical information for case
management. It would activate notificationand surveillance mechanisms allowing early
diagnosis andtreatment inthe areas of antenatalcare, VCT, PMTCT, HIV/AIDS/STD,
andtuberculosis )TB. Itwould register patients recording basic demographic
information, risk factors andcontact tracing andissue a uniqueID. The IT platform
would provide the treating physician with web-based access to online diagnostic and
laboratory results on OIs, ART response, CD46and viral load, plan adherence andnon
compliance alert, up to date informationon drugprescription, dispensation, online
therapeutic protocols, drug adversereaction and resistance, estimated date of HIV
transmission, pharmacy7,laboratory, x-ray and other specialty diagnostic interventions,,
diagnostic (ICD-lo)* coding and insurance billing processes (ICD9-CM, CPT-49or other
codes adoptedby the M O H andthe Universal Health Care/National Insurance


 Based on the International Classification of Diseases gthrevision
'In
  white blood cells (lymphocytes).
     interface with the OECSPharmaceutical Procurement Service system being implemented in the
*Victoria Hospital Pharmacy Department.
 International Classification of Diseaseslothrevision.
 Common Procedural Classification 4Ihrevision


                                                     33

 Corporation). The applications would include interfacesfor the electronic transfer of
 CD4 andViral Loadand other test data andreports generatedby laboratory andblood
bank analyzers and for the integration of the HIV/AIDS/STDnotification databases with
geo-referencedmapping tools.

Featuresto protect patient's Privacy rightsand the integrity and confidentiality of the
electronic medical records would include: encrypting technology, double key facilities,
and restricted access to medical recordsby authorized personnel. Epidemiological
studies and surveillance processes should be basedon codeddata assuringanonymity and
confidentiality of epidemiological analysis and research. The system should be able to
track quality of care aspects interms of outcomes andcosts, case management- in
particular, managementof treatment and adherenceto highly active antiretroviral therapy
(HAART). The systemcouldcapture measures of cost effectiveness, efficacy,
accessibility, and equity of care to be compared with definedstandards of care treatment
and support.

The implementation of the HIV/AlDS/STD case managementinformationsystem
(CMIS), will include:

i)selection,acquisition,andadaptationofapplicationsavailableinthemarketcontaining
modules neededto support HIV/AIDS/STD clinical case managementat outpatient and
inpatient level through pilot testing inthe Victoria and St. Jude hospitals, the EzraLong
NationalLaboratory and BloodBank, and selectedhealth centers;
ii)expansioninthesecondphasetoallparticipatinghealthfacilitiesandlineministries;
iii)capturedataatthepointofserviceondemographics,clinicalrecordsandbehavior
andrisk factor surveys to support real time notification, processing, and reporting ;
iv) online, real time access, web-basedinformationfor HIV/AIDS/STI prevention,
treatment and second generation surveillance, epidemiologic analysis and research;and
v) connectivity with selectedhealth centers, hospitals, laboratories, bloodbanks and
central levelMOH. ,line ministries and NGOs.

Training will be provided to managers, health professionals andtechnicians, financial and
administrative staff of the M O H andrespective health facilities inthe use of information
technology andin applications, includingretrieval, geo-referencedstatistical and
epidemiological analysis and use of information indecision making.

The MIS and the IT will serve as the platformfor the development of MOH's Health
InformationSystemcontemplated under the Project inpreparationwith the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB).

The implementation in stages will allow pilot testing of the selected applications
includingtraining, reengineeringof processes, organization of the ITsupport at the M O H
and the selectedhospitals andHealth Centersinthe eight HealthRegions for the first
year of the VCT implementation, according to the priorities assignedby the MOH. The
first phasewill include the two major hospitals (Victoria and St. Jude, includingpriority
wards, VCT/STD clinic, laboratory, bloodbank and pharmacy), Gros-Islet Polyclinic,



                                              34

Vieux Fort HealthCenter andCastries HealthCenter, complemented with the other
HealthCentersof the eight regions. The connectivity for the MOH's Wide Area
Network (WAN)and the health facilities' LAN(data, VoIP, and video) to be providedby
the Project, will benefitfrom the existing wireless backboneoperatedby the Financial
Management (FINMAN) ITUnit inthe Ministryof Public Service. A Server room with
controlled access and N C , will be required within the offices of the MOH.

The secondphaseimplementation will result inthe full scale operation of the
HIV/AIDS/STD Clinical MIS and Surveillance andM&Esystems. Itwill include all
M O HHealthCenters andDistrict Hospitals andwill be completed by the third year of
the project. The proposed implementation should be coordinated with civil works
includedinthe Proj.ectfor health facilities selectedfor rehabilitation of VCT rooms,
emergency, laboratories and bloodbanks, and should be complemented with connections,
the inclusionof embeddedconduits, dedicatedelectrical wiring anduninterruptedpower
supply (UPS) for 24 hours power supply.

To assure the sustainabilitv of the IT platform, the M O Hwill need an IT Unit at the
national level for network and databaseadministration and a help-desk to support
networkedfacilities. Specialized ITtechnical assistanceandWAN connectivity support
will be obtained from the Government Financial Management (FINMAN)ITUnit. For
the implementation of the FirstPhase, the Victoria Hospital will requireestablishing an
ITunit.St. Jude Hospitalalready hasthe ITUnit staffed andoperational.

The additional human resourcesneededto support the M&Eand surveillance
subcomponents include a MonitoringandEvaluationspecialist, an IT specialist for the
NAPSMOH andtwo network administrators, one eachfor the MOH's IT Unit and
Victoria Hospital ITUnit. Fundingfor the initialoperation of the IT Unitswill be
allocated within the Project Management Component. Resourcesfor technical assistance
and procurement of the HIV/AIDS/STDCMIS and required ITplatform (hardware and
software), clinical and technical staff training and connectivity is estimated inTable 1,
and will complement the fundingunder negotiation with CDB.

The HIV/AIDS/STD surveillance, M&Eand Clinical Case Management system (CMIS)
will be implementedinthe selected HealthFacilities andLine Ministries (See Annex I)
providingdecentralized data entry, centralized processing intwo nodes with battery of
servers installed at the Victoria and St. Jude Hospitals and access to informationat the
point of delivery of care (Hospitals, Laboratories andHealthCenters). Electronic data
transfer with MOH's HealthInformationSystem will provideconnectivity, online access
to NAPS, the MOH's Surveillance and HIV/STD Units, andfull databaseredundancy
andback upprotection. Securedweb-basedbrowsers through IPprotocols (virtual
private network (VPN)) and encrypted technology for the protection of patient's
confidentiality, should be available to private physicians andlaboratories to access the
MOH's health information system.




                                               35

InformationTechnolow Platform. The applications and acquisition of the IT Platform
should be modular, scalable and integratedinsteps, according to the following
recommendedphases:

 1. Preparation of Requestfor Proposals(RFP), short list and selection, andawarding of
technical assistancefor the implementation of HIV/AIDS/STDclinical MISfrom
applications available inthe market. Inthe preparatory stage, technical specifications for
the hardware andsoftware to be acquired and respectivebiddingprocesses will be
defined according to the health facilities participating inthe Pilot Phase.

2. Six months parameterization and pilot testinginthe Victoria and St. Jude Hospitals,
the national laboratory and the selectedhealthcentersinparallel with the initiation of
sensitization and training of the clinical andparamedical staff participatinginthe Second
Phasewith the use of case studies with complete medical records of a sample of
HIV/AIDSpatients. The pilotwill also includethe implementationof the laboratory and
bloodbank test processingmodule (LABIS)" provided by CAREC. Once the modules
are operational, connectivity shouldbe established with the M O Hthroughthe FINMAN
wireless backbone.

3. Inparallel with the FirstPhase, the project will provide training for the strengthening
of the monitoringandevaluation capacity for programdevelopment andmanagement,
includingUNAIDS support inthe implementation of data collection and analytical
processesinall participating agencies. Lineministries will be providedwith
workstations and technical assistancefrom UNAIDS andthe NAPS, to populate and
operateUNAIDS/Country Response InformationSystem (CRIS) databases: Indicator
database; Projectlresource tracking database; Researchinventory database.

4. Initiationof SecondPhase (second year) implementation inDistrict Hospitals and
Health Centers, including the backbone links, testing and implementation of the
connectivity and wide area network with FINMANwireless broadband. A tentative
budgetis included inTable 1, indicatingthe possible sequence of the procurement
processesby year. The proposedtime table is includedinAnnex II.

The technical specifications for the ITplatform acceptableto the Bank, should be
compatible with the comprehensive national ITstrategy beingimplementedby the GOSL
through FINMANITUnit, and will be the basis for the definitionof the final
requirementsinHardware and Software to be procured underthe project. Thebidding
documents for the purchase and installation of the hardware, should include the
responsibility of the provider to install and configure the server's operational software
(Microsoft Windows Server 2003 or equivalent with network administrator, servers
manager, web page creation), structured query language (SQL) Server with OLAP


loCAREC's CariSurv -Lab Information System 2000 "virtual laboratory" application (LABIS) includes
specimen and patient registration; test scheduling, barcode label printing and reporting of individual patient
results following electronic approval, runningover a LAN with an SQL database. Embeddedis a
specimen inventory management system that facilitates tracking o f specimens in short- and long-term
storage, and maintains the link between specimen, patient and test data for archived specimens.


                                                       36

application or equivalent, with technological upgrade or software assurance for at least
two years, network anti-virus and web firewall; multi-licenses for office applications and
other geo-referencedmapping software; statistical packages; epidemiological modeling
andforecasting applications; uninterruptedpower supply system(UPS) andwiring;
switches, panels, structured wiring or wireless as appropriate for voice on IP (VoIP), data
andvideo local area networks (LAN). Extendedwarranty for the repair andmaintenance
of the equipment for at least three years should be considered.




                                             37

                        Figure 1: OrganizationalData Flow

                         I                     Goals                         I




  SU$-                                                                                     *44
                                                                                             400
m                                                                                             0
                                                                                               0
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8

8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
                                                                                               8
I
rI                                                                                             8
                                                                                               8
                                                                                               8
I
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
:
I                                                                                              8
                                                                                               8
                                                                                               8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              m
I                                                                                              8
!                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
b                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
I                                                                                              8
8                                                                                    t         8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
8                                                                                              8
                                                                                               8
8               Develops                                                                       8
8                                                                                              8
8                                  \                                                           8
                                                                                               8
8                                                                                              8
8        Information Products                                                                  8
8        Annual Evaluation Reports     Disseminatedto CoordinatingCouncil NACC                 8
8                                                                                              8
8         onthly Service Statistics                   Stakeholdersat national, district
m8                                                                                             8
                                                      and local level                          m
                                                                                               1

0        Mid-term & end of project                    Private Sector, Public Sector            8
0
0                                                     And Civil Societv                       1

  44                                                                                         44


T




       0
       d




     I



                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                   Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS PreventionAnd Control Project



The project will support the Government of Saint Luciato implement its national responseto
the HN/AIDS epidemic inall the key areas of a comprehensive responseincluding
prevention, care, treatment and impact mitigation:

    Prevention includinginformation, education and communication with anemphasis on
    behavior change communication for specific target groups andthe generalpopulation;
    condom promotion; and voluntary counseling and testingand ensuring safe blood
    Care and treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections including tuberculosis
    antiretroviral treatment; and support to home and community-based care and support
    services;
    Capacity buildingfor service provision: training of healthworkers, strengtheningof
    laboratory services;
    Strengthening of monitoring andevaluation andresearchincluding: surveillance
    (sentinel, population-based and behavior) and program managementmonitoringbasedon
    performance indicators for eachprogram; and,
    Capacity buildingfor advocacy, policy formulation, program coordination, resource
    managementand implementation at all levels.

The project will be implemented over a periodof 5 years and will be financed through an
IDA andIBRDblendof grant, credit andloanwith Government contributionfor counterpart
funds. The project will have four componentsas outlinedbelow.

Component 1: Community and civil society initiatives (US$0.75 million)

Civil society organizations (CSOs) are more effective than public sector agenciesinreaching
certain difficult to reach groups vulnerable inthe community, such as commercial sex
workers and other hard-to-reach-groups. The civil society organizations also operatemostly
at community level where there are opportunities to interact directly with individuals and
communities. While some civil society organizations may be well developed andready to
implement their respective HN/AIDS program activities, others may need substantial
capacity buildinginorder for them to be effective.

Thiscomponent will finance HN/AIDS prevention, care andsupport activities ledby
communities, NGOs, FBOs, women's organizations, the private sector and other similar
organizations. It will also support capacity buildingactivities of civil society organizations
to effectively respondto HN/AIDS. The types of HN/AIDS activities to be supportedby
this component will be demanddriven and will vary depending on the proposalsthat will be
presentedby the respective CSOs. Examples of activities by these organizations that will be
eligible for project support include, but are not be limitedto the following:




                                               43

     a) Delivery of community basedHIVIAIDS IECBCC;
     b) Condom distribution andor social marketing;
     c) Home-basedcare of PLWHA;
     d) Community advocacyto reduceHIV/AIDS stigma anddiscrimination;
     e) Support activities for orphans and widows/widowers of HIV/AIDS;
     f) Support activities for peopleinfectedand affected by HIV/AIDS, especially those
         targetedat PLWHA, includingincome-generating activities;
     g) Community targetedactivities for HIVIAIDS vulnerable groups, including
         commercial sex workers, out of school youths and single women;
     h) Trainingof civil society organizations onHIV/ATDSknowledge and
         communication;
     i)Trainingofleadersofcivilsocietyorganizationsonfinancialmanagementpractices
         relevant to the implementation of the HIV/AIDS project; and,
     j) Provisionofessentialgoodsandsuppliesfor NGOstoenablethemtoeffectively
         function while delivering HIV/AIDSprevention care and support services.

Criteria for eligibility and procedures for the civil society organizations to access project
fundingwill be specified inthe OperationalManualof the project. Inparticular, the
Operational Manual will specify eligibility criteria for funding, the processfor application
andapproval of fundingandthe reporting arrangementsbetweenthe civil society
organizations and the project coordinating team. Eligibility criteria will be flexible enough to
allow greater participation of various categoriesof civil society organization inthe fight
against HIV/AIDS inthe country. The reporting arrangementsfor the civil society
organizations will be simple enoughto enable accountability without overburdening the
limited capacity of particularly smaller organizations.

Component2: Lineministryresponse(US$0.97 million)

An effective and comprehensiveresponseto HIV/AIDSincludes the responseof all sectors
as each sector has aunique role to play inthe fight against HIV/AIDS. This component will
support the responseto HIV/AIDS by non-health sector line ministries. There are basic
cross-cutting HIV/AIDS activities which all ministries are expectedto implement under their
respective sectoral HIV/AIDSprograms andto be supportedunder this component. These
include: (a) develop and implement workplace HIV/AIDSpolicies; (b) IECBCC for
HIV/AIDSand STDs (c) condom distributionandpromotion; (d) advocacyto reduce
HIV/AIDS stigmatization anddiscrimination, particularly inthe work place; and(e) establish
support groups for HIV/AIDSpatients and their families (either as a single ministry or in
collaboration with other ministries).

There are also HIV/AIDS relatedinterventions that are specific to aparticular ministry and
each ministry will identifyits specific HIV/AIDSprogram needs to be supportedby this
component. For example, populations potentially at risk within the sphere of influence of the
Ministry for HomeAffairs are prisoners, fire fighters, delinquent youth, juvenile delinquents
and police officers. For the Ministry of Education, HumanResourcesDevelopment, Youth
and Sports it will be school age children and out of school youth. The Ministry of Tourism's



                                                44

highriskpopulations groupsarecommercial sex workers, water sports andtour operators,
taxi drivers and street vendors. All ministries are expectedto be implementing their
respective HIV/AIDS programs by the end of the third year of project implementation.
However, a number of ministries are expectedto participate as of the first year of project
implementation: (a) Education, HumanResourcesDevelopment, Youth and Sports; (b)
Public Service andLabor Relations; (c) Tourism; (d) Social Transformation; and (e) Home
Affairs.

Ministrieswill appoint their respective HIV/AIDS focal points (person or unit) to lead the
HIV/AIDS response. A focal point person is a minimumrequirement but, where feasible, a
sectoralHIV/AIDS committee will be set upto support the focal point to help institutionalize
the sectoralHIV/AIDSresponse. The focal point will coordinate the ministry's HIV/AIDS
planning, implementation, monitoringand evaluation. Focalpoints will receive training to
develop the skills required to lead their respective sectoral HIV/AIDS response.

Component3: Strengtheningthe healthsector responseto HIV/AIDS (US$3.59 million)

This component will strengthenthe health sector responseto HIVIAIDS by supporting health
sector HIV/AIDS related services for prevention, treatment, care and support especially in
the following areas:

    a) Information,Educationand CommunicatioflehaviorChangeCommunication
        (IECBCC). Support will beprovidedto strengthenIECBCC for HIV/AIDS. In
        particular, support will be providedto the bureau of health education to strengthenits
        capacity to provide technical leadership for scaling-up of HIV/AIDSIECBCC. The
        M O Hwill also receive support for development of IECBCC interventions using
        different media (radio, television, leaflets). This will complement the interventions of
        line ministries and Civil Society Organizations.
    b) Voluntary Counselingand Testing(VCT). The project will support the provision
        of VCT servicesinall eight healthregions of the country. This will include minor
        civil works in selected facilities to ensure confidentiality to clients duringVoluntary
        Counseling for HIV/AIDS. Itwill also provide, equipment, testing kits, reagentsand
        training in VCT for health care workers.
    c) Ensuringsafetyof bloodsupplies. The project will support the ministryto ensure
        safety of blood from HIV andother bloodborne diseases. Support will include
        strengthening the bloodstoragecapacity.
    d) TreatmentofSexuallyTransmittedDiseases. The project will support the
        strengthening of the existing STD services providedby the ministry and introduce the
        syndromic approach to the managementof STDs. Drugs and training of health care
        workers will be funded.
    e) Distributionof condomswithin the healthfacilities.          At the moment the MOH
        distributes about 82,000 condoms a year through its health facilities. Condoms are
        also provided by UNFPA. People also access condoms directly from the open
        market. The project will support promotion, provision anddistribution of condoms
        through the ministry's healthcare network, social marketingand by CSOs.




                                                45

       Treatment care and support of PLWHA. The project will support the MOHin
       scaling up its services for the treatment and care includinghome-basedcare for
       PLWHA. Inparticular, the project will supportthe servicesfor treatment of
       opportunistic infections, treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, the introduction
       of the use of anti-retroviral drugs for PLWHAwithin the ministry's services,
       prevention of mother to childtransmission of HIV/AIDS including the treatment of
       mothers with anti-retroviral drugs (PMTCT-PLUS), and support of nutritional
       interventions for PLWHA. Healthcare workers will be trained in managementof
       HIV/AIDSpatients. The project will supportthe strengthening of the laboratory
       capacity to assist inthe diagnosis, treatment and care of PLWHA. Inparticular, the
       project will support the training of staff, acquisition of materials and equipment
       required for the use of antiretroviral drugs for the managementof PLWHA.
       Guidelinesand Treatment Protocols. The project will support the development,
       updating anduse of different guidelines and treatment protocols including: IECBCC,
       VCT, STD management, treatment andcare of PLWHA includingtreatment of
       opportunistic infections, anti-retroviral care, home-basedcare, interalia.
        Health policies formulation and technical support to legislators on issues
       relating to HIV/AIDS. The project will support the ministryindeveloping health
       sector policies that enhance the delivery of HIV/AIDS services within the health
       sector. The project will also provide technical support to legislators on issues related
       to HIV/AIDS.
       Promotion of safe workplace procedures inthe health sector. The project will
       support the ministry instrengtheningthe implementation of its safe workplace
       proceduresto minimize occupational HIV infection amonghealth care workers.
       Medical waste management. The project will support the ministry inimplementing
       its medical waste managementplan, as it relates to the disposal of medical waste
       createdinthe course of delivery of services to PLWHA. Inparticular, the project will
       support training of health care staff to keep upto date with the requirements for safe
       disposal of biomedical waste.
       HIV/AIDS surveillance and operational research. The project will support the
       strengthening of the HIV/AIDS surveillance system andrelated operational research
       (See Annex 3).
       Technical HIV/AIDS support to non-health ministries and civil society
       organizations. The ministry has technical HIV/AIDS capacity that can be usedby
       the non-healthministries andcivil society organizations to implement their respective
       HIV/AIDS programs. The project will support the ministry inits efforts to extend its
       technical HIV/AIDS skills to the non-health ministries and the civil society
       organizations.

Component 4: Strengthening institutional capacity for program management,
Monitoring and Evaluation, and Legal Technical Assistance (US$2.66 million)

This component will help buildthe institutional capacity for scaling upthe responsethrough
financing of technical advisory services, training, staffing, equipment, goods and general
operating costs of the following activities:




                                               46

Strengthening institutional capacityfor coordinating and managing the Government's
National HZV/AZDS Program. The project will fund the policy makingand oversight
functions of the National HIV/AIDS Coordination Council (NACC ) inthe Office of the
Prime Minister to coordinate the national responseandensure an appropriate policy and legal
environment. The Council i s chaired by the Presidentandincludes key stakeholdersfrom the
public sector, and civil society. The NationalHIV/ADS Secretariatwill provide operational
support to the NACC. Functions of the Secretariatto be supportedinclude: (a) overall
coordination of project implementation; (b) monitoringandevaluation; (c) financial
management and procurement through the PCU; (d) HIV/AIDSrelated training of staff of
the Secretariat; (e) support of the functions of the NACC to advise the Secretariat. Financing
will include consultant services, staff with specialized skills inspecific areas, technical
assistance, materials, furniture, and equipment for the operation of the Secretariat. Functions
of the Secretariat that cannot be provided in-house will be out-sourced.

Strengthening monitoring and evaluation including the information technology plagorm.
The NationalHIV/AIDS Secretariatwill monitor the progressof project implementation in:
(i)strengthening program monitoringcapacity; (ii)    developing and strengthening the
HIV/AIDS/STI case management; and(iii)        measuring the trend of the epidemic. The project
will train managers; healthprofessionals andtechnicians; financial and administrative staff of
the M O Hand respective health facilities inthe use of informationtechnology. It will also
support connectivity andwide area network services andinternet service provider and
technical assistancefor developing a national plan and activities on surveillance, research,
and evaluation.

The HIV/AIDS/STIsurveillance, monitoring and clinical case managementinformation
system (MIS)will be developed modularly to support project components. It will capture
demographic and service provisiondata at the point of service delivery, manageclinical
records online (outpatient and inpatient), abstractdata from clinical records for monitoring
purposes, and report results from behavioral surveys. Information will be providedfor real
time decision making, and for processing, and reporting VCT, STI, PMTCT and ARV
interventions. Resourcesfor hardware, software, staff, training and technical assistancehave
beenestimated. (Annex 3)

Legal Framework. Under this subcomponent the project will: (i) the country's civil,
                                                                    assess
economic, and social rights legislation and provide assistanceindraftinga comprehensive
new act that will ensure to people living with HIV/AIDS and other vulnerable populations,
including children affected by HIV/ADS, full equality and dignity under the law, without
stigma or discrimination. UNADShas extensive knowledge and experience inthe
promotionof human rightslegislation, has a well-developed methodology for drafting this
kindof legislation and will be apartnerinthe execution of this subcomponent; and (ii)
provide technical assistanceto help the Registrar of Industries and Intellectual Property
RightsandMOH's Pharmaceutical Office update the necessarylegal andregulatory
provisions to make the country's legal framework compliant with the WTO's Agreement on
Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights(TRIPS)ina manner that fully protects the public
health and that promotes access to HIV/AIDSdrugs and related medicines and supplies to all
who needthem. Saint Lucia will participate in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) wide



                                               47

assessment of patent and drug regulatory systems to be carried out under the The PAN
Caribbean Partnership against HIV/AIDS Project. Technical assistance to be providedunder
this subcomponent will be dovetailed with the CARICOM assessment.




                                            48

                                  Annex 5: Project Costs
                 Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS PreventionAnd Control Project

                                                   Local           Foreign    Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity          us              us         us
                                                   $million        $million   $million
Community and civil society initiatives                 0.75           0.0        0.75
Line Ministry response                                  0.87           0.10       0.97
Strengthening the health sector response to             1.54           2.05       3.59
HIVIAIDS
Strengthening institutional capacity for program        1.76           0.90       2.66
management
LoanFee                                                 0.00           0.03       0.03
T O ~ IProject Costs'                                   4.92           3.08       8.00

'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$700,000 and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s
US$7,300,000. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 91percent.




                                            49

                  Annex 6: InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements
                   SaintLuciaHIV/AIDSPreventionAnd ControlProject


InstitutionalArrangements

The project will be implementedthrough an institutional andmanagementstructure that will
permitthe widest participation of public sector andprivate sector stakeholders andallow
incorporation of current and future donors of the international community. A Cabinet
Decisiondated May 3,2004: (i)       createdthe NationalHIV/AIDS Coordinating Council
(NACC) to be chaired by the Prime Minister andconsisting of fifteen members of which
eight membersrepresent civil society; (ii)   createdthe NationalAIDS Program Secretariat
(NAPS); and (iii)   authorized the appointment of a Director for NAPS and appropriate staff.
The NACC will guide program execution and advise the GOSL on HIV/AIDSpolicy, set
project priorities, advise on budgetparameters, and ensureexecution of the National
Strategic HIV/AIDSPlan 2003-2008. The NACC will be accountable to Cabinet for project
results. NAPS will be the operating armof the NACC and will implement its decisions. It
will coordinate implementation of the project. The responsibilities of the NAPS will be
twofold: (i)  providingtechnical support to the implementing agencies inplanning and
preparing the project's work plans and monitor and evaluate results; and (ii)supporting the
implementing agencies with efficient and transparent financial andprocurement management
services. The governancestructure proposedby GOSL for the national HIV/AIDS response
i s depicted in Figure 2.

The NationalHIV/AIDS Coordinating Council (NACC): The GOSL will assignthe
responsibility for supporting, overseeingand coordinating the national responseto the
NACC. This will provide strong visibility and accountability of the national response and
the project to the Cabinet and to the broader public interest. The NACC will:
     9      include public andprivate sector stakeholder groups: representatives of line
            ministriesandrepresentativesof relevant private institutions suchas NGOs,
            FBOs, CBOs, Chamber of Commerce, manufacturing associations, Hotel and
            Tourism Association, andhealthcare providers;
     ii) befullyaccountabletoCabinetviathePrimeMinisterforprogramresults;
     iii) advisetheCabinetonpoliciesandstrategiesthatrequireCabinetapproval;
     iv)    set the priorities for the program;
     v)     advise on program and budget parameters;
     vi)    prepare an annualreport on the national response;
     vii)   mobilize national and international resourcesfor the fight against HIV/AIDS, and
     viii)  mobilize multi-sector support for the national response.

The Prime Minister will chair the NACC and will appoint an alternatechair. The Chief
MedicalOfficer of M O Hwill act as Secretary to the NACC and will:
    i)      bea national spokespersonfor the NationalHIV/AIDSResponse,
    ii)     interface between the public and the Government on mattersof HIV/AIDS
            advocacy,




                                               50

    iii) serveasamajorpointofcontactbetweentheGovernmentandtheinternational
            HIVIAIDS community.

The NationalAIDS Program Secretariat (NAPS) will support, coordinate and oversee
program implementation by the implementing agencies. It will not itself be engagedin
implementingthe nationalresponse. Itwill carry out its supportive and coordinating roles
through two units: (i)  a Technical UnitlocatedinMOH; and (ii)PCUresponsible for
                                                                  a
handling all financial management andprocurement activities. The Director of NAPS
reports to the NACC via the PermanentSecretary of the M O H will be directly responsible for
managing the technical aspects of the NationalAIDS Program Secretariat. The Directorwill
liaise with the MOF via the PermanentSecretary of the MOF for providinginstructions and
guidance to the PCUon financial management andprocurement activities.

The NAPSwill facilitate, coordinate andprovidetechnical oversight for allHIV/AIDS
prevention andcontrol work programs and plans to be executedby the three types of
implementing agencies (described below). It will ensure that all proposed activities are in
line with the National Strategic Plan. The NAPS will be staffed by programofficers with
skills and experience in strategic planning, monitoringand evaluation, information
technology, and communication strategies. It will also have a coordinator for the Line
Ministries and the CSOs and an internal auditor to verify compliance with financial and
technical guidelines, and supportive administrative personnel. Such staff may be recruited
through personal services contracts or secondedfrom other branches of government service
inorder to promote sustainability of the Unit. The NAPSwill receive support from technical
departmentsinMOHinspecific substantive areas. Itwill aggregatethe results from the
monitoringand evaluation processes of the national responsefor consideration and eventual
decisions on changes inpolicies andoperating procedures by the NACC.

 The Proiect Coordination Unit(PCU) is currently locatedinthe Ministry of Physical
Development, Environment and Housingandhas experience inmanaging two World Bank
projects. The unit will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance by Cabinet Decision. It i s an
ad hoc unit staffed by expert consultants infinancial management and procurement to
provide services to externally financed projects including this HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control project. The PCU Coordinator reports to the PermanentSecretary of MOF. The
Permanent Secretary of M O Hand the Director of NAPS will evaluate PCU's performance
annually and transmit the evaluation report to the PermanentSecretary of MOF. The PCU
will handlefinancial managementtasks (keeping books of accounts for all project resources
inaccordancewith GOSL andWB regulations, disbursingfunds to implementers, requesting
payments or reimbursements from the World Bank, preparing consolidated financial reports)
and procurement activities (procuring goods and services, biddingand contracting tasks) and
will be staffed by a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and appropriate
administrative support personnel.

The National CoordinatingCommitteeon HIV/AIDS (NACCHA) consists of
representativesof the MOH, Line Ministries and Civil Society Organizations and will assist
NAPSinreviewing andevaluating annual work plansof LineMinistries andproposals for




                                              51

subprojects submittedby Civil Society Organizations. RecommendedCSO proposalswill be
referred to NAPS for approval and to NACC for ratification.
IMPLEMENTING        AGENCIES

Since the first case of AIDS was reportedin Saint Lucia in 1985, M O H has provided strong
clinical andtechnical leadershipinthe fight against the spreadof HIV/AIDS and will
continue to do so. It has done this usingits technical departments andservice providing
institutions. Responsibility for project implementation will fall on the function-specific
central level departments and units (MCH, Health Education, Nutrition, etc.), on the national
and district hospitals, on the health centers, on the clinical laboratories, and on the blood
bank. Assigningimplementation responsibility to MOHline unitswill increasethe capacity
of M O Hline departments to executehealth programs. M O Hwill appoint aperson
responsible for implementing all aspects of the HIV/AIDS program within the Ministry who
will work with all central level line units, with hospitals, health centers, diagnostic services,
bloodbank and any other M O Hservicethat will support project implementation. MOHwill
also beresponsible for implementing an improvedbiomedical waste managementprogram.

HIV/AIDS Focal Points inLineMinistries: A number of national ministries andagenciesin
the public sector will assume responsibility for HIV/AIDS prevention and control.
Populations potentially at risk within the sphere of influence of the Ministry for Home
Affairs are prisoners, fire fighters, delinquentyouth, juvenile delinquentsandpolice officers.
The Ministry for Labor Relations, Public Service and Co-operatives will promote the
application by private industry of ILO guidelines on workplace policies dealing with
discrimination and humanrights. Populations potentially at risk for the Ministry of
Education, HumanResourcesDevelopment, Youth and Sports are school age children and
out of school youth. The Ministry of Tourism's highriskpopulations groups are commercial
sex workers, water sports and tour operators, taxi drivers and street vendors. A focal point -
an individualidentifiedineachparticipating Ministry - will be responsible for coordinating
andmanagingHN/AIDS relatedactivities intheir respective institutions adaptingthe
components of the national responseto the specific needs and characteristics of their
constituencies and target populations. A sectoral HIV/AIDS Committee will support and
provide guidance to the focal point person. Line Ministries will receive technical and
financial support for developing andimplementing work programs from the Technical Unit
of the National AIDS Program Secretariat. A staff member inNAPS will work with line
ministries. Details of these arrangementsare contained in the Project Operations Manual.

Civil Society Organizations: NGOs, FBOs and CBOs, PLWHA groups, and other private
sector entities will be invitedto initiatenew HIV/AIDSprevention andcontrol activities or to
extend and/or continue those that they are currently managing. The NGO Act providing a
legal framework for NGOs is under preparationfor approval by Parliament and will regulate
eligibility criteria, registration and licensing of NGOs. SelectedNGOs may also be invitedto
performspecific functions such as lEC/BCC activities or support formulatingand/or
implementing work programs of line ministries. Depending on their comparative advantage,
they will serve the needs of specific target groups at risk or inneedof care. As inthe case
for the line ministries, technical and financial support for program development and for
program implementation will be provided by and through the NationalAIDS Program



                                                 52

         Secretariat. Many civil society organizations are relatively small, of recent origin anddo not
         have the necessary fiduciary andmanagerial structure to enter into performance-based
         contracts with the NAPS. Recognizing that these grassrootsorganizations however could
         play an important role intheir respective communities, sustainedefforts will be made to
         mentor, coach and support them. Largerwell-established NGOs could serve as mentors to
         smallemergingNGOs. A staff member of NAPS will work directly with civil society
         organizations. Details of the relationships between the NAPS andthe civil society
         community are contained inthe Operations Manual.

                                      Figure 2: InstitutionalArrangements

                                       Office of the
                                       PrimeMinister                               Cabinet




                               NationalHIV/AIDS
                               CoordinatingCouncil(NACC)
                               Chair: PrimeMinister




                                  National AIDS ProgramSecretariat                  NationalCoordinating

 Financialand                                                                       Committee on HIV/AIDS
                                                                                    (NACCHA)
IPrnriirementMot      I       I                I                         I




                                           ImplementingAgencies

                        1                                1                          1
           MINISTRY HEALTH
                        OF                          NON-HEALTH                    CIVIL SOCIETY
                                                    MINISTRIES
                                                                                 NGOs
          Central Level Units                  Education, Youth & Sports         FBOs
          Hospitals& HealthCenters             Public Service                    CBOs
          Laboratories                         Tourism                           PrivateSector
          BloodBank                            SocialTransformation              Trade Unions
                                               Home Affairs




                                                       53

Implementation Arrangements for Line Ministries

Component 2 will support the responseof the non-health sector ministries to HIV/AIDS.
There are basic cross-cutting HIV/AIDS activities that all ministries will be able to
implement. Theseinclude: (a) development andimplementation of workplace HIV/AIDS
policies; (b) IECA3CC for HIV/AIDSand STDs; (c) condom promotionand distribution; (d)
advocacy to reduce stigmatization and discrimination; and (e) establish support groups for
personsinfected with HIV/AIDS. Some HIV/AIDS related interventions are specific to a
particular ministry's external clients, for example, pupils, students andteachers for the
Ministry of Education; the hotel industry for the Ministry of Tourism; and the uniformed
forces and the prison population for the Ministry of Home Affairs.

All ministries will beeligible to obtain fundingfor their HIV/AIDS activities under the
project. To access funding, a Ministry should have:

        Identifieda person (focal point) responsiblefor managingthe HIV/AIDSactivities
        within the Ministry. Ministries will designateHIVIAIDSfocal points (person or unit)
        who will lead the HIV/AIDSresponse. The focal point will coordinate the ministry's
        HIV/AIDSplanning, implementation, monitoringandevaluation functions. Focal
        points will be supportedby the project to receive training to develop the skills to lead
        their respectivesectoral HIV/AIDSresponseeffectively.
        Established an HIV/AIDS team to provide guidanceto the HIV/AIDS focal point. A
        focal point personi s a minimumrequirement but, where feasible, a sectoral
        HIV/AIDScommittee should be set upto support andprovide guidance to the focal
        point for the purposeof institutionalizing the sectoral HIVIAIDS response.
        Developedan annualwork planfor its proposed activities. The'annualwork plan
        should be inline with the priorities of the NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. It
        should indicate the funding sources for proposed activities including: Ministry's own
        contribution through its budget; requestedfunding from this project, funding from
        any other donors andexternal agencies, and funding from the private sector.

While all relevant ministries are expectedto be funded under the project, the following
ministries andany other ministry that has met the above readinesscriteria will preparework
plansfor the first year of project implementation: (a) Education, HumanResource
Development, Youth and Sports; (b) Public Service and Labor Relations; (c) Tourism; (d)
Social Transformation; (e) Home Affairs and Internal Security. Annual work plans will be
reviewed by the NationalCoordinating Committee on HIV/AIDS (NACCHA), referred to the
National HN/AIDS Program Secretariatand to the NationalHIV/AIDS Coordinating
Council for ratification.




                                               54

                           SUBPROJECT CYCLEFORLINEMINISTRIES



Stage              Activity                                              1
                                                       Timing             Responsible Party
Planning           Issue Guidelines to line ministries Annually           National HIV/AIDS
                   on work plan preparation and assist                    Secretariat (NAPS)
                   indesigningandbudgeting




                   project mid-term evaluation
                   Project Completion Report           Mid2009            NAPS

Implementation Arrangements for Civil Society Initiatives.

Civil society organizations (CSOs) will implement component 1through sub-projects to be
fundedby grants. CSOs include: Associations of PLWHA, NGOs(local andinternational),
community groups, professional associations, trade unions and private sector organizations.
They will all be eligible for funding and will apply for grants through subprojects. The
NAPS may also solicit particular CSOsto prepareproposals for undertaking specific
activities. Private sector organizations may be requestedto provide co-financing and will
follow procedures specified inthe operations manual including:

Principles of operation:

The Secretariat will coordinate the activities of the CSOs to ensurethat they are fully
integratedinto the national HIV/AIDS program;
The project review, monitoringand accounting process will be open andtransparent; and
Systems will facilitate interaction betweendifferent CSO's working together e.g. NGOs and
CBOs.




                                                55

 Eligibleapplicants:

    0   Establishedgroup recognizedby the NAPS, registered through a relevant
        Government agency, or have international recognition;


    0   Have demonstrableexperience incommunity work or be endorsedby community
        leaders; and

        Have a management andaccounting structure.

IfthesecriteriacannotbemetthentheNAPSinsome cases mayhelp attaineligibility or
suggest twinning arrangementswith an eligible group.

Proceduralarrangements:CSOs will prepareand submitproposalsfor subprojectsto the
NAPS. Followingapproval of the subproject, they will implement the subproject andsubmit
quarterly progressreports and a completion report at the endof the project. The NAPS will
disseminateinformationand guidelines on proposal preparation. NAPS will review the
eligibility of CSOs. The National Coordinating Committee on HIV/AIDS (NACCHA) will
evaluate the technical soundness of the proposal and refer themto NAPS for approval andto
the NACC for ratification. NAPS will provide technical assistanceto CSOs and monitor
implementation of sub-projectsprovidingregular progress reports to the NACC.

Eligibleactivitiesinclude: IEChehaviorchangeactivities (drama, seminars and talks),
guidance to care-givers, provision of care and support to PLWHA, support to orphans,
schemes for income generation to replace income, guidance on treatment for STD,
opportunistic infections and ARV, voluntary testing and counseling.




                                             56

                              SUBPROJECTCYCLEFOR CSOS

                Activit                              Timing           ResponsibleParty
                                                     Annually         National HIV/AIDS
                                                                      Secretariat(NAPS)
                                                     Annually         NationalHIV/AIDS
                                                                      Secretariat

              I Preparesub-projects
                DreDaration
                                      andsend        Annually or bi-  cso
                proposalsto NAPS                     annually
Appraisal       Review eligibility of applicants and Annually or bi-  National HIV/AIDS
                                                     annually         Secretariat


               NACCHA to evaluateproposals           Annually or bi-  National Coordinating
                andrecommendapproval in              annually         Committee on
                accordancewith guidelinesand                          HIV/AIDS
               budget
               Transmit list of recommendedsub-      Annually or bi-  National HIV/AIDS
               projectsto NACC for approvaland       annually         Secretariat
               financing.
Approval       Approve eligible subprojectsand       Annually or bi-  National HIV/AIDS
               authorizeNAPS to sign contracts       annually         CoordinatingCouncil
               with CSOs
Contracting    Sign contract with CSO specifying     Annually or bi-  National HIV/AIDS
               rights andobligations andincluding annually            Secretariat
               a financiaVprocurement plan
               Disbursefunds accordingto signed      As needed        National HIV/AIDS
               contract                                               Secretariat
Implementation Report project progress               Quarterly        cso
                                                                       _ _ -
Supervision    Review progressof implementation Quarterly             National HIV/AIDS
                                                                      Coordinating Council
               Mid-termevaluation of CSO             Mid2007          National HIV/AIDS
               initiatives as part of project mid-                    Secretariat

                                                     Mid2009          National HIV/AIDS
                                                                      Secretariat




                                              57

            Annex 7: Financialmanagementanddisbursementarrangements
                  SaintLuciaHIV/AIDSPreventionAnd ControlProject


Summary Conclusionof FinancialManagementAssessment. On the basis of the
assessments performed, the financial managementteam recommendedthe following:

    (i)    The Project Implementation Unit(PCU), currently locatedinthe Ministryof
           Physical Development, Environment and Housing and responsible for managing
           the fiduciary aspects of two World Bank projects (ERP and ERDMP),will
           managethe fiduciary aspects of the project.
    (ii)   The PCU will be transferredto the Ministry of Finance, after Cabinet approval, to
           provide fiduciary services to externally financed projects, including ERP,
           ERDMP and the proposedHIV/AIDSproject. This transfer is neededto ensure
           the same level of commitment to all externally financed projects.
    (iii)  The PCU already has inplace an adequatefinancial managementsystemto
           manage the fiduciary aspects of World Bank projects.
    (iv)   After the PCUcarriesout the proposedaction plans presentedinthis assessment,
           especially the hiring of a Project Accountant, it will have inplace adequate
           financial management arrangementsthat meet the Bank minimumfiduciary
           requirements to managethe financial activities of the project.

The following actions will becarried out: (1)the PCUwill opena Special Account
denominatedinUSDin a commercial bank acceptableto the World Bank; (2) since the PCU
has extensive experience with report baseddisbursementprocedures, loan funds will be
disbursedto the Special Account on the basis of FMRs; (3) each quarter, the PCUwill
preparethe Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) to be submitted to the Bank (the FMRs
will include a narrative outliningthe major project achievementsfor the quarter, the project's
sources and uses of funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a physical
progressreport, a procurement report, a procurement table and any additional schedules
requiredfor disbursementpurposes); and (4) annual project financial statementswill be
audited inaccordancewith InternationalStandardsonAuditing issuedby the International
Organizationof SupremeAudit Institutions (INTOSAT), by the Office of the Auditor General
of Saint Lucia, in accordance with terms of reference (TORS)acceptableto the Bank.

Annex 6 details the implementing agencies includingthe National HIV/ADS Coordinating
Council (NACC) and the NationalA D S Program Secretariat (NAPS). The responsibilities
of the NAPS would be twofold: (i)   providingtechnical support to the implementing agencies
inplanningandpreparing the project's work plansandmonitor andevaluate results; and (ii)
supporting the implementing agencies with efficient andtransparent financial and
procurement management services through the PCU. The PCUhasexperience inproviding
procurement and financial managementsupport to World Bank financed projects and wili be
responsiblefor fiduciary aspects of the project, such as maintenance of accounting records,
processingdisbursements, maintaining administrative records, reviewing contracts and
makingpayments for activities relatedto the project.


                                              58

The useof the PCUto managethe fiduciary aspectof the project (both financial management
and procurement activities) was recommendedfor two reasons: (i)   the MOHhas little
experience with managing fiduciary aspects of donor-funded projects, hence considerable
work would be neededto meet the minimumBank requirements for the financial
management of the proposed project, and (ii)  the PCUhas experience inmanagingthe
fiduciary aspects of Bank projects through its involvement with the Emergency Recovery and
Disaster Management projects. This arrangement utilizes the existing resources and
expertise inBankfinanced projects in Saint Lucia. The PCU will be transferred to the MOF
by Cabinet decision andwould provide financial management and procurement services to
all externally financed projects, includingthe proposed project.

The financial management aspectsof the proposedproject will be managedcentrally by the
PCU, as detailed inthe flow of funds sectionbelow.

FIow ofFunds. Project funds will be channeledto the project through a SpecialAccount
denominated inUS Dollars to be openedby the PCUina commercial bank. The PCUwill
operate a local currency SpecialAccount, to finance project expenditures inlocalcurrency,
where funds from the maindollar Special Account will be periodicallytransferred (funds
sufficient to cover no more than 30 days worth of expenditures) and will be operatedin
accordance with the proceduresandguidelines set forth inthe Bank's Disbursement
Handbook. The PCU will also operate a Project Account for the purpose of receiving
counterpart funds from Saint Lucia. This account will be maintained ina commercial bank.

As depicted inthe graph below, as eligible expenditures are incurred, the PCUwill withdraw
the amount to be financed by IBRDfrom the Special Account (US$ or EC$) inaccordance
with the financing percentage agreed. It will also withdraw the counterpart portion of the
payment from the Project Account. Therefore, in most cases, payment to vendors will need
to be done usingtwo checks or transfers. This will ensure that government andIBRDfunds
are not comingled.




                                             59

                                    Figure3: Flow of Funds



                       I             I         FMR         AIlocation
                                            Applications    Request          I



                        I        Portion IBRO
                        I           Financing
                                         \




Counterpart funding will be provided by Saint Lucia under the umbrellaof M O Hoverall
budget. Each year, the PCUwill coordinate with the Financial Analyst at MOHto ensure the
inclusion of project counterpart fundingneeds inthe overall MOHbudget, basedon
approved annual work plans submitted by eachof the implementing Ministries. Budget
allocation will be made to the Project Account, via M O Huponreceipt of a requestby the
PCU. The proposedproject funding will be included inthe annualbudget startingwith the
2004/2005 fiscal year budget where a total of EC$2,782,353 was includedfor boththe
World Bank andcounterpart contributions estimates underthe new initiatives category inthe
M O Hbudget.

The PCU will execute all payment orders on behalf of the line ministries (including MOH)
that will receive financial support for specifically approved activities in their annual work
plans. The PCUwill carry out the procurement for services andlor goods inaccordance with
Bank procurementguidelines, and make payments to vendors for specific eligible
expendituresincurredby line ministries, uponreceipt of requests. This arrangement will not
require additional accounts for Bank funds, as all financial transactionswill flow directly
from the PCU's Special Account. Furthermore, this will allow all expenditures under the
project to appear as expenditures for the M O H andinaddition will appear inthe MOHs
financial statements. This arrangement will also fall under the normalscope of work for the
annual external audit.

The PCUwill also disbursefunds to CBOs, NGOs andFBOs to implement the demand-
driven subcomponent of the project. Indoing so, the PCUwill utilize the disbursement
procedures applicable to community-driven development project, as explained inFiduciary
Managementfor Community-Driven Development Project: A Reference Guide (May 2002),
as it also applies to HIV/AIDS projects. Disbursements to Civil Society Organizations will



                                               60

bebasedon signed sub-project agreements. Sub-project agreementswill require (a) a
minimumstandardfor financial reporting andaccountability and (b) the Bank's prior review
and clearance of the template used. Tranche paymentsto community groups will be treated
as eligible expenditures for replenishment, as longas they are madeinline with the
provisions of the financinghbproject agreement. Reporting and accounting for the tranche
paymentswill be submitted by each subproject to the PCU, ina form and content appropriate
for the project (the report will include at least progress and completion reports, minuteof
community meetings, and a statementof expenditures). Second andthirdtranche payments
will only be made upon submission of satisfactory financial reports or appropriate supporting
documents for expenditures by the subproject to the PCU.

Accountingand Reporting. The PCUwill be responsible for producing the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on a quarterly basisto be submitted to the Bank. The FMRs
will provide useful monitoring informationand will be usedfor disbursement purposes. The
FMRswill include anarrative outliningthe major project achievementsfor the quarter, the
project's sources anduses of funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a
physical progressreport, a procurement report, a procurement table and any additional
schedules requiredfor disbursementpurposes. FMRsshould be submitted to the Bankno
later than45 days after the end of eachreporting period.

The annualfinancial statementswill include the project's sources anduses of funds, a
detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a schedule of withdrawal applications
presentedduringthe year and areconciliation of the Special Account. These reports will be
preparedby the PCU and made available to the auditors after the endof each fiscal year.

Audit Arrangements. Project financial statementswill be auditedannually. As inmost
OECS countries, the Director of Audit i s responsible for auditing and reporting on the public
accounts of the country, includingprojects funded by international organizations. The
Auditor General's Office has performed adequatelyinthe past interms of the quality of the
audit reports provided andthe timely delivery of annual audited financial statements for
World Bankprojects. Therefore, annualproject financial statementswill be audited in
accordancewith International StandardsonAuditingissuedby the InternationalOrganization of
SupremeAudit Insitutions (INTOSAI), by the Office of the Auditor General, inaccordance
with TORs acceptableto the Bank. Auditors should provide an audit opinion on project
financial statements, and a report on internal controls. The TORs should include the
financial activities undertaken by implementing Ministries and civil society (NGOs, CBOs,
FBOs, etc.). The project's annual audit report will be requiredto be submittedto the Bank
no later than 4 months following the end of the fiscal year (April-March).

DisbursementArrangements. Proceedsof the loan/credit/grant would be disbursedto the
US Dollar denominated special account managedby the PCUfollowing effectiveness.
Disbursementswill be made basedon report baseddisbursement procedures (FMR
applications) submittedto the Bankon a quarterly basis (no later than 45 days after the end
of eachquarter) since the PCUhas extensive experience with financial managementof Bank
projects andthe preparation of FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs). The FMR will include
a narrative outlining the major project achievementsfor the quarter, the project's sources and



                                                61

uses of funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-components, a physical progress
report, a procurement report and a procurement table.

BudgetingProcess. A consolidated annual budget would be prepared by the NAPS in
coordination with the PCUfor all participatingimplementing agencies.

Below i s a summary of actions requiredto be completed for project effectiveness :

                             Financial Management Action Plan

              ~ _ _ _ _
              Area I Action

              1. Flow offunds
              1.1 PCU to open the project bank accounts: the Special Account in US
              Dollars in the bank selected, and the Project Account in local currency
              inthe bank selected.

              2. Staffing
              2.1 Submit new TORs for financial management staff, taking into
              account the addition of the Project Accountant.
              2.2 Submit for review and clearance CV of selected person for the
              Proiect Accountant and internal auditor to the Bank.

              3. Accountingand internalcontrol
              3.1 Create the Chart of Account inthe accounting system to reflect the
              disbursement categories for the project andproject activities.
              3.2 Create the Draft FinancialManagement Procedures including
              sections describing payment procedures, flow-of-funds, format of
              FMRs, disbursement procedures(based on FMRs), coordination with
              implementing ministries, procurement section and chart of accounts.
              3.3 FinalFinancialManagement Procedures.

              4. Externalaudit
              4.1 Submit final audit TORs to the Bankfor review and clearance.
              4.2 Once the Bank clears the TOR, proceed with the appointment of
              the auditors..

              5. Reporting
              5.1 Submit draft FMR Format.
              5.2 Submit first FMR.



SupervisionPlan. Given the complex nature of the project, an FMSpecialist fromthe
World Bank will need at least two staff weeks for FMsupervisionfor three separate missions
andreview of periodic financial reports duringthe first year of implementation. In
subsequent years, the number of missions could be reduced to two per year.




                                                 62

Allocation of Loan/Credit/Grant Proceeds




                                 63

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
                    Saint LuciaHIV/AIDSPreventionAnd ControlProject

A. ProcurementArrangements

Procurement for the proposedproject will be carried out inaccordancewith World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", publishedinJanuary 1995
(revised JanuaryIAugust 1996, September 1997, January 1999, November 2003, andMay
2004); and "Guidelines: Selectionand Employment of Consultants by WorldBank
Borrowers" published inJanuary 1997 (revised in September 1999, January 1999, May 2002,
November 2003, andMay 2004), and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement.

B. ProcurementResponsibility:The Project Coordination Unit(PCU) inthe MOFwill be
responsible for the procurement activities under the Project. The PCU will be strengthenedby
adding a procurement specialist, a project accountant, and a senior assistant clerk. An
operations manualpreparedby the MOWPCUincludes the details of the procurement
responsibilities, flow of documentation, funds andprocedures. The MOWPCUhas prepareda
generalprocurement planfor the entire duration of the project and a detailed procurement plan
for the first 18 months along with the annual work plan. The FinalPP will be annexedto the
OM. The procurement planfor each year would be submittedby the PCU throughthe M O H
to the WB for approval, no later than the anniversary monthof the prior fiscal year, following
a standardformat which would list as a minimum(i)     works, goods and services to be procured
for the year; (ii)their value; (iii) methodsof procurement; and(iv) the timetable for
                                  the
carrying out the procurement. The procurement planmay be updated at any time, if required,
underparagraph1of Appendix 1to the Bank's Guidelines.

C. ProcurementMethods: The methodsto beusedfor the procurementdescribedbelow
and the estimatedamounts for eachmethod are summarized inTable A. The threshold
contract values for the use of each methodare fixed inTable B. Goods and works for this
project are estimatedto cost US$ 3 millionequivalent.

a. Procurementof Works: Works under this Project will include refurbishment of STI
clinics and other smallrehabilitation works. Contracts above US$l,OOO,OOO will be procured
following International Competitive Bidding(ICB). Contracts above US$150,000 but below
US$l,000,000 will be procured following NationalCompetitive Bidding(NCB) procedures,
usingstandardbiddingdocuments agreedinadvancewith the World Bank. Small works,
estimatedto cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured on the basis
of comparing at least three quotations, received from qualified contractors inresponseto a
written invitation, which will include a detailed description of the works, includingbasic
specifications, the requiredcompletion date, abasic form of agreement acceptableto the
Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable.

b. Procurementof Goods:Goods under this project will include ARVs and other
pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, test kits, condoms, laboratory equipment, office
supplies,IT supplies andIEC/BCC dissemination campaign equipment.



                                               64

To the extent possible, contracts for goods [other than "Specialized Medical Supplies and
Laboratory Equipment"] will be grouped into biddingpackages of more than US$150,000
equivalent andprocured following ICB procedures usingBank-issuedStandardBidding
Documents (SBD). Contracts below US$150,000 but above US$25,000 may be procured
under NCB, usingbiddingdocuments acceptableto the Bank. Contracts for goods [other than
"Specialized Medical Supplies and Laboratory Equipment"] which are estimated to cost
below US$25,000 per contract may beprocuredusingNational Shopping (NS) or
International Shopping (IS) procedures.

Procurement of specialized medical suppliesandlaboratory equipment (e.g., test kits,
reagents, viral load and CD4 count machines)will be determined by the market situation of
eachproduct (Le., the number of available qualified suppliers) andthe nature of the medical
supplies. Regardlessof the contract value, they may be procured usinglimitedinternational
bidding,shopping or single sourceproceduresinaccordancewith the provisions of
paragraphs3.2, 3.5 and 3.7 of the Guidelines.

 For procurement of condoms, the following proceduresshould be followed:

        through SS with PharmaceuticalsProcurement Services (PPS) usingcompetitive
        proceduresacceptableto the Bank (see below)
        or incase the condoms are procureddirectly by MOWPCU: -IS for contracts amounts
        below US$150,0OO and Limited International Bidding(LIB)for contract amounts
        above US$150,000.

PPS services and Procurementprocedures. Saint Lucia participates inthe central OECS drug
procurement organization to procure drugs for the public sector health services. Drugs are
procured inaccordance with "National Formularies"(1ists of types andquantities of various
name brand and/or generic drugs). Drugsneededare pooled across the OECS countries and
prices are obtained through offers from regional wholesale suppliers that represent
manufacturers. Contracts are awarded on the basis of the lowest price for a specified
quantity to be delivered to each country throughout the year. A preliminary assessment of
this systemwas conductedin2003 to verify its conformity with World Bankguidelines for
procuring drugs . Drugs would be includedinits NationalFormulary and procured through
the OECS system. Drugs would be procured from suppliers according to registeredbrand
names, at prices that are negotiated with manufacturers (Saint Lucia i s currently participating
inthe Caribbeaninitiative to negotiateprices of ARV drugs on aregionalbasis with
manufacturers)and the procurement would be proposedto the World Bank (when loan
proceeds are to be usedto finance the purchase) as "direct contracting".

The PPS may act as a procurement agent for the Borrower, who will be responsible for
paying PPS's fees. The Bank would assess prior to any approval of a PP that PPS would
follow procedures and use biddingdocuments acceptableto the Bank. A 2003 preliminary
capacity assessment of PPS has been attachedto the PCA of the Borrower and the proposed
PCU. For procurement of Specialized Medical Supplies and Laboratory Equipment
[including condoms] PPS will be required to follow the principles described above, that will



                                              65

be also respectedby the Borrower, should they decide to purchasedirectly any specialized
medical Supplies and laboratory equipment.

c. Selectionof Consultants: Consulting services will be required for technical assistance
for prevention, care, support of HIV/AIDS/STIpatients, for management information
systems, and for monitoringand evaluation. These services are estimated to cost US$3.2
millionequivalent.

d. Firms. Contracts with firms estimatedto cost over US$lOO,OOO wouldbeprocuredusing
Quality and Cost-BasedSelection (QCBS). The short-list of consultants for these services,
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be comprised entirely of
national consultants. Small and simple contractsestimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or
less would be procured following other procurement methods such as Consultant
Qualifications (CQ). ITtraining and connectivity services, radio spots and any other services
for dissemination campaigns will be procured on a SS basis.

Contracts with NGOs, FBOs, CBOs [Eligible Entities @E)] will be awardedon a single
source basis, irrespective of their amount, if the proposedproject is acceptedinaccordance
with proceduresto be establishedinthe Operations Manual. For services procured by
NGOs, FBOs, CBOs [EE,i.e. Eligible Entities] under subprojects, inthe case of contracts
above US$lO,OOO, the EEwill be required to procure such services under CQ or (individual
consultant) IC as appropriate.

e. IndividualConsultants[IC]. Other assignments where neither teams of personnel nor
additional outside professional support are required would be performed by individual
consultants selectedby comparison of qualifications of three candidates andhiredin
accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Prior review will be applicable for assignmentsabove US$50,000. Below such threshold, the
prior review will only cover the TOR for the assignment.

f. Training. The Project will finance trainingfor the provisionof servicesfor ARVs, OIs,
STI, PMTCT ,training for IT, capacity building, strengthening the Line Ministries andCivil
Society Groups response to HIV/AIDS, biomedical waste management, training for
laboratory workers, trainingfor voluntary counseling and testing centers personnel,
workshops and materials.

g. Operatingcosts. Sundry items, office rental, utilities and other operational costs would
befinanced on a declining basis and would beprocuredusingadministrative procedures
acceptableto the Bank. The Bank will finance about US$264,400, declining annually in
accordancewith an agreedplan.

D. PriorReview: The proposedthresholdsfor prior review are basedonthe procurement
capacity assessment of the M O Hand the PCU and are summarized inTable B.
Arrangements for prior review of the procurement processes are described above under
ProcurementMethods. Inaddition to this prior review of individualprocurement actions, the
planandbudget for Operating Costs will be reviewedand approved by the Bank annually.



                                                66

E. ProcurementCapacityAssessmentReport: The WorldBankcarried out aPCAin
January 2004 andMarch 2004to evaluateM O H and the PCU. The M O Hwill be the
responsible agency for implementing the HIV/AIDSPrevention and Control Project. The
PCAis inthe Bank's files.

M O Hstaff lacks experienceinprocurement but the quality andquantity of the staff inthe
existingPCUis satisfactory. The assessment determined that ingeneral, a sufficient number
of qualified staff are available to carry out the normalprocurement tasks that would be
assignedto them. The existing staff has relevant knowledge of the disciplines andthe
capacity required for carrying out the proposedprocurement plan . Additional staff to
support the procurement andimplementation are proposed inthe Action Plan as the PCU
will be required to managetwo projects at the same time.

The conclusions of the assessment show the country's weak procurement environment, lack
of proper legislation for procurement, lack of skilled personnel inprocurement within the
M O Hat international level, weaknesses inthe national biddingprocessesand award of
contracts and in general, lack of internationally recognized standardrules.

The risk assessment of procurement implementation for this project is considered HIGH,
irrespective of the present good performance of the existing PCU, mainly due to the present
weaknesseswithin the MOH. This assessment is strictly tied to implementation by the M O H
of the proposedaction planbelow, as well to the fact of their assumingcomplete
responsibilities for technical matters [specifications andTOR] and for managing functions of
all the contracts.

Ifattheendof thefirst 18monthsthe Borrowerdemonstratesgoodperformancein
procurement andacceptableplanningand managementcapabilities, the risk assessment will
be updated andproposed to be AVERAGE.

FPCUStaffing

The existing PCU      has managedtwo World Bank projects, namely the Emergency
Recovery and Disaster Management projects, and will be responsible for the fiduciary
activities of the project. Currently, the staff at the PCUincludes a Project Coordinator, a
Deputy Coordinator, a Project Assistant for FinancialManagement, an Accounts Clerk, a
Senior Accounts Clerk, a Project Assistant for Procurement, a Clerk for Procurement and a
SecretaryEypist (as depicted inthe organizational chart below).




"The  PCUwill be transferred to the Ministry of Finance


                                                    67

                           Figure I:PCU Organizational Chart




                                  I              I




The Deputy Project Coordinator who supervisesthe Financial Management team has a
Bachelor's degree inaccounting and more than 10years experience inaccounting with
government agencies. The Assistant -Financial Management has a first degree in
accounting and 10 years experienceinaccounting (3 years experience with the government).
The two Accounts Clerks have minimumqualifications of afirst degree in
finance/accounting or a diplomain accounting. Therefore, the PCU already has a core team
with adequate skills to fulfill the accounting andreporting needs of the project.

To enable the PCUto handle the additional workload andthe added complexity of the
proposedproject, staffing at the PCU will be strengthenedwith the addition of (i) a Project
Accountant, (ii) a Procurement Officer, and (iii)Senior Assistant Clerk/Typist.
                                                  a
Qualifications for the Project Accountant positionwould include a Bachelor's degree in
accounting, finance or equivalent and at least 5 years experience inGovernment accounting
and/or internationally funded projects. The Project Accountant would be responsible for
providing guidance to the existing financial management staff and would strengthenthe
capacity of the unit to handle the additional workload likely to be generatedby the proposed
project.


G.ActionPlan

The following planwas agreedto minimize the highrisk of delays inimplementation :


   0   Agreementthat the M O Hwill use the proposed PCUfor all the procurement
       activities.
   0   Designation of a managerwithin M O Hwith authority to take any procurement
       decision on behalf of the M O Hand represent the MOHinthe contractual relation
       with all the suppliers /contractors/ consultants.


                                               68

        Designation of technical staff inM O Hto assist the PCUindraftingtechnical
        specifications and TORS. Suchtechnical staff to be integratedinany evaluation
        committees.
        Recruitment of a full time procurement expert for the PCU
        Preparation of a training planfor the PCU staff.
        Establishment of a procurement filing systemsatisfactory to the Bank by
        negotiations.
        Preparationby the MOWPCUof a procurement plan (PP) for the first 18 months of
        implementation. Finalplanto be agreedupon by negotiations andto be annexedto
        the Legal Agreement. The final PP should have a detailedbreakdown of all the
        components and indicationof expectedamount, applicable procurement method, and
        use of prior or post review.
        Preparation by the PCU of an operationsmanual (OM) with a specific chapter on
        procurement detailing all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow of
        documentation .
        Preparation by the PCU of draft standardbiddingdocuments for all processes, by
        effectiveness.
        For purchases [specialized medical supplies and laboratory equipment ] that MOH
        intends to carry out through PPS, M O H should provide evidence inthe PP of such
        purchasesandconfirmation by M O Hthat they would pay the administrative fees of
        PPS out of their own budget; signingof a special M O UbetweenMOHandPPS [if
        needed, inaddition to the permanent agreement with PPS]; commitment by PPS to
        follow procedures and use biddingdocuments acceptable to the Bank
        Eligibility and selection criteria for EE [Eligible Entities=Civil Society
        Organizations] defined includingproceduresfor assessment of EE's capabilities.

A project launch workshop will becarried out after project effectiveness andwill include the
participation of staff from the MOH, PCU, NGOs, FBOs, CBOs and Line Ministries. It will
be followed during the first year by another intensive workshop of at least two days inBank
procurement procedures andrules.

H.ProcurementPlan. At thebeginningof eachcalendar year [or earlier, ifrequiredunder
paragraph 1of Appendix 1to the Bank's Guidelines] the PCUwill update the Procurement
Planwith adetailed procurement schedulefor the coming year.

I.FrequencyofProcurementSupervision: Theprojectwouldreceiveaminimumofone
full supervision missionto carry out post review of procurement actions, every six months
duringthe first year and every 12monthsafterwards. Based on the overall risk assessment
(HIGH)the post-review field analysis shouldcover a sample of not less than 1in5 contracts
signed. A procurement audit shouldbecarried out every year.




                                                69

                             Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                                         (US$ x lo6)




      1. Works                                    0.00         0.20           0.28.A.i       0.00               0.48
                                                 (0.00)        (0.10)         (0.23)         (0.00)            (0.33)
      2. Goods                                    0.20           0.20         0.53 B/        0.00               0.93
                                                 (0.15)        (0.15)         (0.43)         (0.00)            (0.73)
      2.1 SpecialHealthGoods                      0.00           0.00           1.50         0.00               1.50
                                                 (0.00)        (0.00)         (1.29)         (0.00)            (1.29)
     3. ConsultantServices                      0.00             0.00         3.09 C!        0.00               3.09
                                                 (0.00)        (0.00)          (2.44)        (0.00)            (2.44)
     4. Training                                  0.00           0.00           0.26         0.00               0.26
                                                 (0.00)
     5. Civil SocietyFund(Grants)                 0.00
                                                 (0.00)
     6. OperatingCosts                            0.00
                                                 (0.00)
     Unallocated
                                                                               (0.18)                          (0.18)
         Total                                    0.20                                        0.20"
                                                 (0.15)        (0.25)         (6.02)         (0.00)            (6.42)


Note:  N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed (includes elements procuredunder parallel co-financing procedures, consultancies
        under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
        Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank IoadIDA credit

Footnotes:
        A/ Three quotations (Le.: Small works procuredunder lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
        of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in responseto a written invitation .The
        award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the required work, and
        who has the experience and resourcesto complete the contract successfully.
        B/ Shopping(National and International) and LIB
        C/ Consultants Services. Details provided inTable A-1
        * Estimatedadministrative  fee paid by the Government to PPS




                                                              70

                           Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements




                          (0.32)   (0.00)                (0.00)        (0.32)      (0.08)         (0.00) (0.72)
B. Individuals                                                                      2.38                  2.38
                      I (      1 I   0      I  0 I        0                    I   (1.89)               I(1.89)

                          (0.32)   (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.32)      (1.97)         (0.00) (2.61)

QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; LCS = Least-Cost Selection; CQ = Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualifications; Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines)
Figuresinparenthesisare the amountsto befinancedby the BankLoadCrediUGrant.




                                                       71

                          Table B: Prior Review Thresholds
                   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
                                     [inUS$equivalent x OW]

                         Contract Value         Procurement      Contracts Subject to
                          (Threshold)              Method            Prior Review
 1. Works
                            >1.000                  ICB                  All
I
I                          150-1,000                 NCB               >500 All
I3Quotations                                                          4 0 0 First
                              4 5 0                                      None
 2. Goods"
                               >150                  ICB                 All
                                 150>x>25            NCB                 None
                                c25                  Shopping            None

                                           DC/SS with EE, that
 2A. Subprojects                >25        will be requiredto
 [NGOs,FBOs,CB                             procure              Firstand Specs or TOR
 Os= Eligible                              subcomponents            afterwards
 Entities=EE]  **                          through NCB or CQ or

 ** Selection                              IC [as appropriate]
               and
 approval                        25>x>10   DC/SS with EE, that
 proceduresto be                           should procure       First andSpecs or
 detailed in the                           subcomponents        TOR afterwards
 Operations Manual                         through Shoppingor
                                           CQ or IC [as
                                           appropriate]




                                <lo                DC/SS                  First
 2.B Special
 Goods***

 l/Drugsand
    supplies for
                    Irrespective of the    Method determined by All DC and specs of
 TB, 01,ARV:                amount           market's economy:   other methods
                                                 DC/IS/LIB
                                                                           First
 21Condoms                    <150                Shopping                 First
I                             >150                   LIB

I est kits,                                                     All DC and specs of


                                          72

    reagents, viral load    Irrespective of the          Method determined by          other methods
  ~~




    and CD4 count                    amount                market's economy:
    machines                                                   DC/IS/LIB


    OR

                                                         SS with PPS, that will      All first year and
    Special goods and Irrespective of the                 be requiredto follow       Specs afterwards
    suppliesat points                amount                procedures and use
    1/,2I,J3 above****                                     biddingdocuments
                                                         acceptable to the Bank
  ~~
   3. Services

   3.A Firms

  ZA.1                                  >loo                      QCBS                              All
   3.A.2                                e100                      Irrespective              TOR only
                                                                   of method

   3.A.3 ITtraining
   andconnectivity,         Irrespective of value                  ss                               All
   radio spots and
   dissemination
   campaigns
   3.B Individuals
                                         >50                       Comparison                       All
                                                                   of 3cv
                                         <50                       [Chapter V of            TOR only
                                                                   Guidelines1


*with the exception o f the specialized medical supplies and laboratory equipment
***Procurement of Specialized Medical Supplies and Laboratory Equipment (e.g., test kits, reagents, viral load
and CD4 count machines) will be determined by market situation of each product (Le., the number o f available
qualified suppliers) and the nature of the medical supplies. Regardless of the contract value, they may be
procured using limited international bidding, shopping or single source procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.2,3.5 and 3.7 of the Guidelines."  .This principle and procedures will be applicable
for any purchases done by the MOH-PCU. andlor any other purchases channelled through PPS .
****All the purchases [Specialized Medical Supplies and Laboratory Equipment ] carried out through PPS under
commitment by PPS to follow procedures and use biddingdocuments acceptable to the Bank.

OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:


                         Average
                         Low




                                                       73

                           Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                    Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention And Control Project

There are strong reasons for public intervention inHIV/AIDSprevention and control:

a)      HIVis acommunicable disease which inflictsnegativeexternalities on society; a
purelyprivate responseis therefore likely to fall short of the social optimum;
b)      InformationregardingHIV transmission is imperfect;
c)      HIVmakespeoplevulnerable to other infectious diseases includingtuberculosis;
d)      Some individuals (spouses, newborns, victims of rape, accident victims who need
bloodtransfusions) cannot control their own risk to HIVinfection; and
e)      Early intervention is neededto prevent the epidemic from reaching the proportions it
has reachedinother parts of the World.

While an economic impact analysis of the HIV/AIDS assessment has not beencarried out for
Saint. Lucia, the following analysis of the HIV/AIDSpotential impact inthe Caribbean and
other parts of the World demonstrate the importance of early intervention to curb the growth
of the pandemic in Saint Lucia.
Costing an HIV/AIDS prevention and control programfor the Caribbean12
A very rough estimation of the cost of acomprehensive HN/AIDS prevention programwas
conducted among a team of epidemiologists and economistsfrom the CaribbeanI3. The
purpose of the exercise was to estimate the cost of anHIV/AIDS prevention and treatment
package for 23 Caribbean co~ntries'~       under various scenarios. The model structure was
loosely basedon a simulation modelbeingdeveloped by the World Bank15and the
parametersunderlying the base scenario were obtained from the literature and from the
aforementioned panel of experts.


Modeland MainAssumptions
Interventions



 The followinganalysis is drawn fromthe World BankProjectAppraisalDocument(Report22184-LAC), for
 the Multi-CountryHIV/AIDS PreventionandControlProgram(APL), June 6,2001 (Annex 8).
l3
 The teamof epidemiologists,publichealthspecialistsandeconomistsfrom UNAIDS, PAHO, CAREC,
 CARICOM, the World Bankandthe HealthEconomicsUnit at the University of West Indiescollegially
 decideduponepidemiological, cost andcoverageparametersduringa two-day workshopheldinTrinidadand
 Tobago (August 17- 18,2000). The estimateswill needto be validated inthe country-specificanalyses.
l4
 The countrieswere loosely groupedaccordingtheir geographic, cultural andeconomicproximity.Group 1:
 Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda,BritishVirgin Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat,St. Kitts, Saint Lucia,
 St. Vincent. Group 2: Bahamas, Bermuda, Cayman, Turks & Caicos.Group 3: Haiti, DominicanRepublic.
 Group4: NetherlandsAntilles, Aruba, Guyana, Suriname.Group5: Barbados, Belize, Jamaica, Trinidad &
 Tobago. Group6: Cuba
l5
 BonnelR., et al., 'The Cost of Scaling-Up HIV/AIDS Programsto aNationalLevel for Sub-SaharanAfrica,'
 Working Paper, WorldBank, April 2000.


                                                  74

An exhaustive list of the principaltypical interventions supportedby HIV/AIDSprograms
around the world to prevent the transmission of the HIV virus and to mitigate the impact of
HIV/AIDS onpersons andcommunities was drawn. Indirect interventions include
surveillance, research, monitoring and evaluation, advocacy, and enhancing regional and
national institutionalcapacity to carry out the programs. Preventive interventions include
those activities that have strong spillover benefits to society as a whole inpreventing HIV
infections and thus reducing the spreadof the disease: public awarenesscampaigns,
programs aimed at preventing the spread from high-risk groups such as prostitutes and
intravenous drugusers into the general population, screening, ensuring safe bloodsupply,
fostering behavior change, increasing access to condoms andpreventing the transmission
from infected mothers to their babies. The third set of interventions includes various aspects
of care andfinancial assistancefor persons or relatives of personsliving with HIV/AIDS:
palliative (prevention of opportunistic infections, counseling, home-basedcare, anti-
retroviral therapy) since there is no cure for AIDS; and support to orphans of AIDS patients.

Unit costsassumptions

Unitcosts were then estimatedfor eachof theseactivities. Thecosts were for the most part
taken from the simulation exercise undertakenin Sub-SaharanAfrica16 and from the
consensusview of the panel of experts17. The informationderives from the literature and
from the direct experience of the team of experts with HIV/AIDSprograms indeveloping
world settings.

Populationand epidemiologicalinformation

Estimates for the model parameters were collected or extrapolatedfrom the latest published
sourcesor generatedby the panel of experts who participated in the simulation exercise. The
main variables usedby the model are: population, HIVprevalence, birthrates, access to
health services, use of ante-natal care services, ante-natalcare HIV prevalence, percentage
of sexually active populationreporting non-regular partnerships, annualincidence of
treatable STIs, proportionof STIs that are symptomatic, average annual number of
commercial sex actdsex worker, prevalence of syphilis among women, cumulative number
of orphans, HIV prevalence rates among high-risk groups (prisoners, MSM, CSW, military),
migrantandtourist populations, andpublic spendingper capita inhealth.




l6See footnote 3.
" Seefootnote 1.



                                               75

Programcoverageassumptions

The final set of model inputs was the coverageassumptions. For nearly all the interventions
contemplated, it was assumed that 100 percentof the relevant population was targeted(e.g.,
allCSW, allHIV-infectedmothers, all youngstersinschool, etc). Therewere two main
departuresfrom the universalcoverageassumption: it was assumedthat on1 20 percent of
AIDS patients will benefit from home-basedcare, and that only 15 percent of HIVpatients Y,
will benefit from HAART, the three- and four-drug combinations against HIV. A 100-
percent coverage was deemedimprobable for thesetwo interventions if only because the
health system cannot reach all patients andbecausethe take up of home-basedcare i s partly
predicated on client behavior. The cost estimatesderived from the model are extremely
sensitive to the coverage assumptions. Note that the implicit assumption here is that scaling
upis achievedimmediately-amore realistic costing scenariowill involvegradual scalingup
over aperiodof a few years.
MainResults
Usingthe assumptionsdiscussedintheprevious sections, the following results were derived:
                                     Table 1. Low Cost Package
 Program         Total Cost with        Percent    Total Cost with           Percent        TotalCost      Percent of
                  HAARTat $7,000        of Total   HAARTat $1,000            of Total       without        Total
                 for 15 percent of                 for 15 percent of                        HAART
                 HIV-infected                      HIV-infected                             (US$
                 population                        population                               million)
                 (US$ million)                     (US$million)
 "Indirect       5 1.1                 4           51.1                      7 percent      5 1.1          9 percent
 activities"                           percent
 Public           162.1                 12         162.1                     23             162.1          28 percent
 Awareness                             percent                               percent
 and
 Prevention
 Basic Care      362.2                 26          362.2                     52             362.2          63 percent
                                       percent                               percent
 HAART           828.1                 59          118.3                     17             0.0            0 percent
                                       percent                               percent
 Total           1,403.5                100        693.7                     100            575.419        100percent
                                       percent                               percent

The cost of providinga comprehensive package of prevention and care activities for the
relevant populations the Caribbean will therefore be prohibitively expensive at about US$1.4
billion. Table 2 below shows how these costs will translate into per capita terms for a few
countries and compares the estimatedHIV/AIDSprogramcosts with current overall per
capita spending on health.



l8
 Inthe successful Brazil program, only 15 percent of the infected population are on anti-retroviral access
 despite 100%access.
l9
 Of which $358 millionfor Haiti and the Dominican Republic, $67 million for Cubaand $150 million for the
 rest of the Caribbean.


                                                   76

                                   Table 2: Per CapitaCosts (US$)




Implementingacomprehensivepackageof interventions (prevention, basic care, and
HAARTfor 15percent of the HIV-infected population at current prices) will increasecurrent
overall spending inhealthfrom by 180percent inGuyana. Ifthe cost of providingHAART
falls to $1,000 per patient per year, then a comprehensive packageof interventions
(prevention andcare includingHAART) will imply a 10percent increase inhealth spending
inthe Bahamasanda 183percentincreaseinHaiti. The HAARTcosts are overstated
becauseefforts have since beenmade to reduce the cost of anti-retroviral drugs. The costs of
drugsfor HAART have been reducedto levels of $350 andcould even go lower with the
continuedefforts underway to further lower the costs of drugs. This make it possible for
countries that hitherto could not consider providing HAART to all patients who needto
include it intheir programs.

Potentialbenefits2'fromcheckingthe spreadofHIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean

The benefits traditionally associatedwith HIV/AIDS programs are: (i) they contribute to
                                                                               that
reducing productivity lossesdue to HIV/AIDS-relateddisability and premature mortality;
and (ii) that they contribute to reducing the need for expensive care. These measures ignore
the demandfor such programs from the general populationto reduce the risk of getting the
infection, creating a safer environment, and so on. The benefits calculated heredo not
include these possibly substantial `consumption' benefits.

One study21was conducted by the University of West Indies and suggests that economic
losses due to HIV/AIDS will amount to about five percent of GDP inJamaicaand Trinidad
and Tobago by year 2005. The estimated GDP loss is driven by the number of HIV/AIDS
cases and the averageloss of income/output associated with those cases. The study forecasts
the economic impact of HIV/AIDSby modeling the impact on five blocks: output, labor
supply, employment, savings andinvestment, and spending on HIV/AIDS treatment. An
increaseinHIV/AIDS-related deaths and morbidity adversely affects labor supply causing
wages to increase. Raisingwages and decreasing labor supply translate into lower levels of

2oThe benefitsconsideredinthis sectionare exclusive of externalities.
21`HIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean:EconomicIssues- Impactand InvestmentResponse,' Working Paper.Health
   EconomicsUnit, Universityof West Indies, St. Augustine, 2000 and `Modellingthe MacroeconomicImpact
   of HIV/AIDS in the English-SpeakingCaribbean:the Case of TrinidadandTobago andJamaica,' Working
   Paper,CAREC/UWI/PAHO/'WHO, 2000.


                                                  77

employment. The increaseinexpenditure associatedwith increasedHIV/AIDSincidence
diverts funds away from productive savings, which inturn affects the levels of investment
that canbe achieved. Depressed levels of labor and capital affect the levels of output from
the various sectors and therefore overall GDP. See Table 3 below for impacts on a number
of key variables for Trinidad and Tobago andJamaica.
                   Table 3: The macroeconomic impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
                                  Jamaica andTrinidad andTobago.
           1 Impact Variables                                                  Jamaica         1
             Gross Domestic Product                      percent               -6.4 percent
             Savings                            III -4.2
                                                    Trinidad and Tobago

                                                    -10.3 percent              -23.5 percent
            Investment                              -15.6 percent              -17.4 percent
            Employment inAgriculture                -3.5 percent          IIII/-5.2 percent
            Employment inManufacturing             -4.6 percent                -4.1 percent
            Employment inServices                  -6.7 percent                -8.2 percent
            Labor Supply                           -5.2 percent                -7.3 percent
            HIV/AIDSExpenditure                    +25.3 percent               +35.4 percent

The same study suggests the losses to the economiesof the English-speaking Caribbean
could reach a level around $2 billion per year. Inother words, stopping HIV/AIDS
transmission for that sub-region yields abenefit of $2 billion per year.
The table below, adaptedfrom Jhaet al. (2001)22summarizes rangesof values from the
literature relating to the cost-effectiveness of some of the most frequent interventions in
HIV/AIDS prevention andtreatment.


                     Table 4: Cost-effectiveness of different types of interventions
                  Sex worker    STI            Voluntary       Anti-              IECto      Anti-
                  intervention  managemen     counseling       retrovirals        change     retrovirals
                  S             t             and testing      in                 risky      24

                                                               pregnancy          beha~io?~
Cost per HIV $8-12              $218           $249-346        $276               $1,324     --
infection
averted
Cost per          $0.35-0.52    $9.45         $12.77-          $10.51             $66.2      $720-
DALY saved                                     17.78                                         $2,355


Individualcountry programs will maximize the number of infections averted and the number
of DALYs savedif they were to ensure that the most cost-effective interventions obtain
sufficient attention andfinancing. Countries that proposeto finance HAART should
particularly be attentive to makingsure that preventive interventions that are known to be

22 Jha, P., et ai. (2001) `The evidence base for interventions to prevent HIV infection in low and
   middle-income countries.' Background paper of the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health,
   the World Health Organization.
23UNAIDS
24UNAIDS:Brazil Program


                                                   78

cost-effective are not crowded out inthe process. Saint Lucia has selected a comprehensive
approachwhich has fundingfor preventive interventions bothfor targeting high-riskas well
as for reaching the generalpopulation inaddition to the proposed scaling up of treatment and
care.




                                             79

                              Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                   Saint LuciaHIV/AIDS PreventionAnd Control Project

1. The proposed Saint Lucia HIVIAIDSPrevention andControlProject has two areas of
activity where environmental impacts must be considered: (i)    the generationof bio-
medicalhazardous waste; and(ii)     small-scalerehabilitation of existing physical structures.
The Government is currently implementingabiomedical waste managementplanthat
addresses the management of biomedical waste. The biomedical waste management
assessment and plan are summarizedbelow. The full report is available inGovernment and
World Bank project files. Inaddition, environmental guidelineswill be provided inthe
project operational manual for the minor civil works inthe project.

Introduction

2. InSeptember 2000, GPEC International Ltd. (GPEC), through discussions with various
Saint LucianGovernment officials, includingpersonnel from Saint LuciaSolidWaste
Management Authority (SLSWMA), determined the needfor hazardouswaste management
strategies to deal with various hazardouswaste streams that were currently threatening
human health andthe environment of Saint Lucia. Withjoint fundingfrom GPEC andthe
Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency's IndustrialCooperationProgram (CIDA INC),
GPEC developed a planto address the current hazardouswaste managementneeds inSaint
Lucia. The full waste managementplancan be found inthe project files anddescribes in
detail the minimumrequirements for the safe handling, transportation, treatment, and
disposal of bio-hazardous wastes beinggeneratedinSaint Lucia. The bio-hazardous waste
management planprovidedinthe report addresses waste generatedinthe healthcareindustry
(e.g. hospitals, medical laboratories, healthclinics, doctors and dentist offices, veterinary,
and funeral parlors) as well as condemnedmeats and quarantined foodstuff. This summary
report i s confined to the assessment and recommendations for handling waste from hospitals,
healthclinics, andmedical laboratories.

3. The waste managementplanwas developed basedon the informationprovided to GPEC
by SLSWMA, the various hospital andMinistry of Healthpersonnel interviewed during
GPEC's site visit in Saint Lucia; observationsmade during GPEC's site visits to hospitals
and health clinics; waste managementpractices inSaint Lucia and international best-practice
on waste management strategies. The waste managementplan was developed specifically
for the handling and disposal of medical waste inSaint Lucia.

Study Findings

4. Type of Waste Generated and HandlingPractices. Ingeneral, the types of bio-
hazardouswastes being generatedinthe various Saint Lucianhealthcare facilities include
sharps, pathological and anatomical wastes, human blood andbodily fluids (including soaked
materials such as dressings), microbiologicalwastes, pharmaceutical wastes, general refuse,
and liquid wastes (both hazardous and non-hazardous). Based on the findings of a recent
waste generationsurvey, the hospitals in Saint Lucia have a medical hazardouswaste
generationrate of approximately 1kghedday, and a general refuse waste generation rate of


                                               80

approximately 1.8 kg/bed/day. These rateswere basedon an occupancy rate of 50 percent.
Inaddition, the total hazardousmedicalwastebeinggeneratedfor allhealthcarefacilities,
including hospitals, health clinics, dental anddoctor facilities, and veterinary facilities, was
estimated to be approximately 300kg/day (or 110ton per year).Oof relevant documents and
reports, it was revealedthat, ingeneral, the hospitals andhealth clinics have various waste
managementstrategiesinplace inorder to limit humanexposure to hazardous medical waste
streams. Most hospital facilities have a two bag systeminplace. Black bags are usedfor
general refuse and redbags are usedfor hazardous (infectious) medical waste. Inaddition,
sharps are collected separately from the rest of the waste streamsin designatedrigid
containers, however it is not uncommon for sharps to be disposedwith the other bio-
hazardous redbag wastes. Some anatomical wastes such as placenta, are either buriedon-
site or disposed via the hospitals septic sewage system, while other pathological wastes are
burned. Liquidwastes are disposedinthe hospitals sewage system. Inaddition, some liquid
wastes which are suspectedof beinginfectious are disposeddown the drain with a liquid
bleach solution.

6. Waste segregationactivities varies between the 34 health clinics in Saint Lucia. Some
health clinics segregate hazardous andnon-hazardoussolid waste inred andblack bags
respectively, andalso segregatesharps into empty bleachbottles. Other clinics only segregate
the sharps while mixing together all other solid waste streams.

7. It is a common practice at hospitals and health clinics for black andredbags to be
intermixedsuch that redbags are usedfor non-hazardouswastes, andblackbags are usedfor
hazardous wastes. Inaddition, no cold store facilities are available for the long term storage
of medical waste at many of the healthcare facilities on the island. Thus, stockpiled medical
waste is typically stored at warm ambient temperatures andhighhumidity.

8. Hospital staff responsible for handlingof medical waste are supplied with personal
protective equipment includingdisposal gloves, andgowns. However, it i s commonfor staff
to handle medical waste without the use of gloves or gowns. This illustrates the lack of
appreciation personnelhave for the true health risks associatedwith the handlingand
disposal of medical wastes.

9. Training. Currently there are no formal medical waste managementtraining programs
available inSaint Lucia, however some limited training i s providedto staff handlingmedical
waste. Inaddition, hospitals have appointed Infections Control Officers to inform staff of the
dangers associatedwith the handlingof bio-hazardous wastes. M O Hprovides some
information sessions to healthclinic staff inorder to informthem of the potential dangers
associatedwith the handlingof hazardous medical wastes.

10. While there is somelevelof understanding of the hazards associatedwith bio-hazardous
wastes being generatedin Saint Lucia, the lack of appreciation by waste handlers for the risks
associatedwith these wastes and the current poor bio-hazardous waste managementpractices
are puttingSaint Lucian's at risk of potentially developing a disease or infection, or causing
personal injury.




                                              81

 11. LegalFramework. InSaint Luciathere are currently no specific regulations or
legislation concerning the handling, transportation and disposal of medical wastes. However,
existing legislation, which indirectly regulatesthe disposal of medical waste, include: the
Public HealthAct; the Litter Act; Employees (Occupational Healthand Safety) Act; Saint
Lucia SolidWaste Management Act; and the StandardsAct. Inaddition, since Saint Lucia is
a memberof the Base1Convention, the handling, transportation and disposal of medical
waste will also needto be consistent with convention guidelines.

 12. GPEC has adoptedproven NorthAmerican standardsanddeveloped a customized bio-
hazardouswaste management systemthat i s specific to address the current concerns inSaint
Luciafor hospitals, healthclinics, doctor and dentist practices, veterinarian facilities and
other bio-hazardous waste generatorsinSaint Lucia.

Recommendationsfor Bio-Hazardous Waste Management

13. Inorder to implement GPEC's proposedcentralized bio-hazardous waste treatment and
disposal facility inSaint Lucia, a proper bio-hazardouswaste managementsystemmustfirst
beestablished. GPEC's proposedbio-hazardouswaste management system is similar to
NorthAmerican standards and will include following elements:

a) Waste designation: The first step in safely managing bio-hazardous waste i s to specify
which wastes are to be deemedinfectious andor hazardous,in accordance with the known
standards.For the purposes of this bio-hazardouswaste managementplan, the following
waste streams are identified: isolation bedwastes (highly infectious waste); pathological/
anatomical wastes; microbiologicaUlaboratorybio-hazardous wastes; humanbloodandbody
fluidwastes; contaminated sharps; cytotoxic wastes; and, pharmaceutical wastes.

b) Segregation:Bio-hazardous waste shouldbe separatedfrom the general waste stream, at
the point of generation, to assure that these wastes will be properly handled anddisposed.
Segregation also assistsinreducing overallbio-hazardous waste treatment and disposal costs
and permits facilities to effectively divert those materials that are recyclable. Ifbio-hazardous
waste is mixedwith general refuse, then the total waste streamwill be considered infectious
and require special treatment andhandling. The most efficient means of segregatingbio-
hazardouswaste is to provide separate, distinct containers at the points of generation
throughout each generator facility (e.g. hospitals, health clinics, doctors offices, dentists etc.).

c) Packaginghabelling:Generators should undertakethe necessarysteps to ensure that bio-
hazardouswaste i s not placed inwith other general wastes. Bio-hazardous waste should be
packagedinsuch a way as to protect personnelhandling the waste, andthe public, from
possible injury and exposure to infectious agents within the waste. The integrity of the
packaging should be maintainedfrom the point of origin to the point of treatment. In
addition, the packaging should deter rodents and vermin which can be vectors indisease
transmission. A colour-coded system should be implemented for segregating and packaging
bio-hazardouswastes.

d) In-house waste movement: Housekeeping staff should collect all other bio-hazardous
waste throughout a facility on a daily basis in order to prevent the accumulation of bio-



                                                82

hazardous wastes. The bio-hazardouswaste is to be stored ina designatedstorage area.
Handling of bio-hazardous waste should be done ina careful manner andin accordancewith
known safety guidelines. Operators should wear protective apparel when handling bio-
hazardous waste containers. Housekeepingworkers responsible for collecting and
transporting waste should:

    0   Collect waste daily;
        No bags should be removedunless labelled; and,
        Bags should be immediately replaced with a bag of the same type.

Ingeneral, priorto on-site movement of bio-hazardouswaste, the waste shouldbepackaged
incontainers which are rigid, leak-resistant,impervious to moisture, andof sufficient
strength to avoid tearing or burstingundernormalconditions when beinghandled. Details
on in-house movement recommendations are providedinthe fullbio-hazardous waste
managementreport.

e) Storage:The storagetime of bio-hazardous waste should be minimized. Four factors are
to be considered when storing bio-hazardous waste:

        The integrity of the packaging;
    0   Storagetemperature;
    0   Duration of storage; and,
        The characteristics of storage area.

f) Contingencyplanningandspillcontroyresponse:A contingency planis included to
provide for emergency situations. As previously mentioned, duringthe handling of bio-
hazardous waste, staff should wear appropriate personalprotective equipment (PPE).
Similarly when cleaning-up an accidental spill, staff should wear appropriate PPEto prevent
direct exposure to the potentially infectious agents when cleaning up spills. Details
proceduresto follow inthe event of a bio-hazardous waste spill are providedinthe full waste
management plan.

g) Staff training: Facilities which generatebio-hazardous waste shouldprovide its
employees with bio-hazardous waste managementtraining. This training should include an
explanation of the bio-hazardous waste managementplan and the assignment of roles and
responsibilities for the implementation of the plan. Such training is important for all
employeeswho either generateor handle bio-hazardous waste regardlessof their role (i.e.
supervisor or supervised) or type of work (i.e. technical, scientific, housekeeping or
maintenance).

14. Review ofAvailable Bio-HazardousWaste Treatment Technologies. Different bio-
hazardouswaste treatment technologies are currently available andbeing employed inSaint
Lucia. However, none of these technologies likely come close to meeting current World
Health Organization (WHO) or North American standards of effectiveness inthe destruction
of pathogens. To promote the safe destruction of bio-hazardous wastes in Saint Lucia and
meet WHO andor North American standards, GPEC has selectedtwo treatment technologies



                                               83

for consideration inSaint Luciabasedon the specific needs and conditions of the island.
These two technologies are fixed hearthincineration and steam sterilization (or autoclaving).

15. Operationof a Bio-Hazardous Waste Management Plan. The waste management
study recommends the following componentsto ensurethe effective implementation and
operation of the bio-hazardouswaste managementplan. These componentsinclude:

    0   Selection of a waste managementteam (e.g. Infectious Control Officers, and
        Inspection Officers);
        Employee training programs;
    0   On-going monitoringand infraction reporting;
    0   Accident and incident reporting;
    0   Follow-up monitoringactivities;
    0   Occupational health and safety guidelines; and
    0   Emergency responseprocedures

16. Conceptual Treatment Facility Designand Operation. The following subsections
outline the typical requirements of a centralized bio-hazardous treatment facility designedto
handle all bio-hazardous wastes being generatedinSaint Lucia. It is important to note that
the conceptual treatment facility designprovidedinthis managementplan is for illustrative
purposes only. The final design andlayout of the facility may vary significantly for the
conceptual design due to various factors including, the cost and availability of labour and
construction materials, the treatment technology selected, the costs andavailability of various
equipment, vendor specific requirements, andthe availability of utilities.

17. Site Description and Layout. The facility is expectedto be constructed at the Deglos
landfill facility. Landhas been reportedly allocated within the recycle areaof the Deglos
landfill facility for the bio-hazardous waste treatment facility. Basedon review of existing
site plans, the optimum location orthe bio-hazardous treatment facility at the Deglos landfill
site will be within the recycle area at the elevation of 12.0 m. The bio-hazardous facility will
require a foot print upto approximately 20 mby 20 m (or a total of 400 m2). It i s important
to note that additional space may be required, for the reasonsindicated above. Proper
landscaping for drainage around the facility buildingwill also be required inorder to prevent
flooding of the bio-hazardous treatment facility. The facility will be laidout into zones in
order to conduct facility operations ina safe and efficient manner while minimizing exposure
to bio-hazardous waste. The different zones (or areas) could include:


        Bio-hazardous waste drop-off zone and cleddisinfected emptybinloading zone;
        Bio-hazardous waste weighing zone;
        Bio-hazardous waste cold storage zone;
        Waste tippingand treatment zone;
        Re-usablecarthin cleaning and drying and storage zone;
        Chemical storage zone;
        Office/administration zone;
        Decontamination zone;


                                                84

    0   Non-treatable hazardous waste storage zone; and,
    0   Treated waste collection zone.

18. The buildingwill be apre-engineeredbuilding, erectedon slab-on-grade foundations
complete with required electrical and mechanical systems. The buildingand equipment
foundations will needto be designed of sufficient load bearing capacity inorder to support
the waste treatment equipment and all associatedfacility equipment. The building should be
steel frame with metal roofing. Complete exterior walls around the facility will not be
required given the fact that the treatment technologies will generate considerable amount of
heat. For this reason, the treatment facility should be fenced. The cold storage facility will
be designedto operate outdoors as it will be located adjacent to the facility building. The
office space, washrooms, decontamination rooms, and the chemical storage area should be
complete with walls and doors (as appropriate). Inaddition, the cart cleaning areawill also
be closed-in to contain spray cleaning activities.

Proposedactivitiesunder the Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project.

19. Some medical waste managementissues are alreadybeingfunded bythe Government
which has, for example, contracted out the removal of medical waste from healthfacilities.
However, to improvethe bio-medical waste management structures and processes, and
mitigate associatedrisks, the proposed project may support a set of system-wide
interventions if establishedas critical:

(a) Improvingthe legal and regulatory framework: consultants will review the legal and
regulatory framework that exists andpropose improvements indefinitions, management
arrangements, scope of coverage of regulation to include the transportation of wastes and
residuesand site disposal;

(b) Codification of practices: inconsultation with facility managementandwith the support
of outside experts, practices and procedureswill be codified, to ensure that all steps inthe
systemwere specifically covered, and that "international standards" were applied;

(c) Clarification of managementresponsibilities: from practice andregulations, facilities will
reinforce and/or establishbiomedicalwaste managementresponsibilities inclear personnel
assignments;

(d) Staff traininganddevelopment: the MOHshould organize andconduct aprogram to train
andfamiliarize employeesinallof the healthcare facilities with the new guidelines and
protocols that havebeen developed. It will then continue to monitor the application of these
under the authority of the revised regulatory framework; and

(e) Upgrading facilities and equipment: the application of new practices will be supported
with a complement of small equipment and specific site improvements and/or equipment
repairsas necessaryfor their application (protective gear, trolleys, bins and containers,
monitoringandrecording equipment, fluid waste containers and piping, etc). Inaddition,
consultantswill review the system demands for inter-site transportation of wastes,




                                               85

incineration anddisposal, leading to arecommendationfor investments innew incineration
and disposal technology. These investmentswill also be financed.

20. The M O Hwill managethe implementation of the above action planto be supported
under the project.

21. Management of Environmental Risksof Small ConstructionWorks. The proposed
project envisages small construction, rehabilitating andor conditioning available space of
several facilities. Inthe preparation of the request for proposals, the project's Coordination
Unit(PCU) ,alongwith the agenciesinvolved, will take into accountthe following
guidelines that will be incorporatedinthe project's Operations Manual and StandardBidding
Documents for Civil Works: (i)    environmental guidelines for the construction of health
facilities; (ii)
               environmental guidelines to be included inbiddingdocuments for civil works;
and (iii) guidelines for small construction works. Particularly, appropriate specifications will
be described inthe biddingdocumentsfor civil works to mitigate environmental risks that
may beidentified.

22. Environmental Screening. The PCUwill assess the potential environmental risks of
the project's civil works investments which will dependon the type of construction, area
available (congested vs. open area), the location (urbanvs. rural)of the proposed
construction and whether it is new work or space conditioning inexisting facilities.

    a    Inaddition, ifrequired, prior to the undertakingof civil works, the identification of
         the following risks may take place:
    a    Interruption or limitation of accesses to dwellings or businesseseither permanently or
         temporarily (duringconstruction);
    a    Encroachmentheduction of green areas, parks, and other recreational areas;
    a    Demolition of buildingsof higharchitectural or historicalvalue;
    a    Deterioration of urban quality and property value inthe immediate vicinity of the
         works or deterioration of uniquearchitectural characteristics inthe neighborhood;
    a    Increasedaccidents inareas with highdensity of schools, hospitals, and commercial
         use;
    a    Harmingurbaninfrastructure (sidewalks, power andtelephone lines, water and
         sewerage mains, etc.);
    a    Creating nuisancesduringconstruction (dust, wastes, and heavy construction traffic).
    a    Raisingnatural hazards (floods, soil instability); and
    a    Protectinghistorically and culturally significant sites.


23. Biddingdocuments and contracts will specify terms and conditions governing the works
activity to minimize and mitigate these risks as required.

24. Environmental Management Tools. Environmental considerations for the engineering
design .Theengineering design of civil works, ifrequired, will take into consideration: (i)
connectionsof the buildingsto the potable water system andthe capacity of the existing
water distribution network or the needto establish a water supply system for the building
(well, storagetank, pumpingstation, etc.); (ii)  connection to the sewerage network and the


                                                86

needfor capacity expansion for receiving collectors or the needfor a wastewater treatment
systemfor the building (septic tank, infiltrationditch); (iii)  the treatment of wastewater
before beingdischarged to the sewerage networks or the wastewater treatment system; (iv)
the management of runoff and the facilities for its recollection andevacuation, havingin
mindthe existingdownstreamsystems; (iv) the systems of recollection, storageand
transportation of solid wastes generatedinthe building,incorporating the structures for
separation and recycling; (v) appropriateaccess systems for pedestrians, municipal and inter-
municipalbuses, bicycles ,children and handicappedpeople; (vii) the need to integrate
buildingdesign with architectonic characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood; and (viii)
avoiding the use of materials such as wood from tropical forests, lead-basedpaints, asbestos,
for example.

25. EnvironmentalEnhancement. The architectural designs could bringopportunities to
incorporate andreinforce the criteria of environmentally friendly buildings.The feasibility of
incorporating these aspects into the design will be analyzedduringthe conceptualization
phase of the architectural designsandduringthe engineering designs. This analysis could
include: (i) solar panels to satisfy totally or partially the electricity needs; (ii) water
                                                                                   rain
storage for the irrigation of gardens and green zones; (iii)  maximizingnatural light inorder to
minimize artificial light needs; (iv) planting of nativespecies ingardens and green areas; (v)
natural ventilation systems, minimizingthe necessitiesof air conditioning; (vi) the
stabilization of slopes using vegetative measures; and (vii) access for those with physical
disabilities.

26. EnvironmentalManagement of Construction Activities. Biddingdocuments will
requestcontractors, as needed, to address the following issueswhen deemed significant by
the PCUandparticipating line ministries: (i)    pedestrian safety andtraffic congestion during
construction due to the increase of heavy traffic (of the construction itself andfrom traffic
detours) inhightraffic avenues andexit ramps; (ii) andparticulate materials, causing
                                                        dust
nuisancesto surrounding families andbusinesses, specially to vulnerable people (children,
elders); (iii)
             undesirable noise levels due to the machinery andequipment specially in areas
with hospitals, homes for the elderly, schools; (iv) degradation of lateral streets due to heavy
equipment machinery and traffic detours; (v) the interruptionof services (water, electricity,
telephone, bus routes) during construction; (vi) the adequate disposal of garbage, metals,
usedoils, and excess material, generatedduringconstruction; (vii) the need of informing the
population about construction and work schedules, interruptionof services, traffic detour
routes, provisional bus routes; and (viii) pedestrian security measures, specially for school
children, duringconstruction.

27. Biddingdocuments will also ask for the identification of suitable sites for waste disposal,
the environmental management necessary (compacting, re-soiling and re-vegetation, drainage
control), andthe associatedtransportation costs should be includedinproject design andcost
estimates.

28. Environmental Supervision during Construction. Supervision of construction will
include the compliance with the environmental specifications of contracts.




                                                87

29. EnvironmentalMeasuresduringthe OperationalPhase. Duringthe operational
phaseof the civil works, if required, adequate provisions will guarantee: (i)
                                                                            the maintenance
of the systems of collection and treatment of wastewater; (ii)the adequatecollection and
disposal of solid waste, incorporating recycling systems and the separationof materials; and
(iii) maintenanceofcomplimentarysystems(solarpanels,etc.).Theengineeringdesign
     the
should include the preparationof operational manualsandmaintenanceof all systems.

30. PublicConsultationPriorto the ConstructionPhase. The PCUmay identify the need
for community consultation inthe area of influence of the proposedcivil works. To this end,
a process will beundertakenwith the assistanceof recognized professionals for
disseminating information andgenerating feedback from stakeholders who may be
specifically targetedand the public at large. The consultation program may involve both
formal and informalpresentationsandmeetings with the target groups, and information
dissemination campaigns.

3 1. InstitutionalArrangementsandResponsibilitiesfor Implementationand
Supervisionof MitigationActivities. Eachof the participating agencies, with supportfrom
the project's PCU,will be incharge of managingthe implementation and supervision of the
mitigation activities identifiedin this environmental assessment.




                                               88

                      Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                  Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS PreventionAnd Control Project


                                         Planned                    Actual
PCNreview                                121'1 1/2003               12/11/2003
InitialPID to PIC                        12/19/2003                 01/08/2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                      12/19/2003                 01/08/2004
Appraisal                                03/16/2004                 05/10/2004
Negotiations                             04/05/2004                 05/26/2004
Board/RVP approval                       06/29/2004
Planneddate of effectiveness             08/30/2004
Planneddate of mid-termreview            03/30/2007
Plannedclosingdate                      06/30/2009

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:
Name                          Title                                      Unit
Mary Mulusa                   Task Team Leader                           LCSHH
Mariana M.Montiel             Sr. Legal Counsel                          LEGLA
EduardDaoud                   Sr. Loan Officer                           LOAG
John StephenOsika             Sr. HealthSpecialist                       AFTTR
FabienneMroczka               Financial Management Specialist            LCOAA
Guido Paolucci                Sr. Procurement Specialist                 LCOPR
Willy De Geyndt               InstitutionalManagement Specialist         Consultant
Patricio Marquez              Lead Health Specialist                     LCSHH
Albert0 Gonima                InformationTechnology Specialist
                                                     --  -               Consultant
Aracelly Woodall              Sr. Program Assistant                      LCSHD
Peer reviewers: Jonathan Brown (Operations Adviser, HDNGA) and Helen Saxenian (Lead
Health Economist, LCSHH)
Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
         Bank resources: US$72,147.75
         Trust funds: US$20,485.36
         Total: US$92,633.11
EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
        Remaining costs to approval: To be determined
        Estimated annual supervision cost: US$140,000.00
Supervisionstrategy. The project involves a wide range of im 1 menters in an en rironment
with little experience of implementingBank projects and with capacity constraints especially
 inthe areaof humanresources. The first two years of the project will requirethe rangeof
 skills used in project design to provide support on each of the key components. Fiduciary
aspects inparticular will require regular contact between the Government and the Bank team.
 To initiate project implementation, a workshop will be held incountry and will require not
   less than two formal supervision mission visits inthe first year. Given the Bank active
  involvement inthe region, short visits connectedwith missions to other countries will be
  usefulinprovidingproactive support to implementation. Regionaltraining sessionsfor
                      project and other implementers will be conducted.


                                               89

                        Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File
                Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention And Control Project

A. Background documents
      -   Saint Lucia National HIVlAIDS Strategic Plan 2003 - 2008
      -   Cabinet Conclusion No. 337 of 2004 dated M a y 3,2004: "Endorsement of
          InstitutionalArrangements to Manage and Coordinate Implementation of National
          HIVIAIDS Strategic Plan2004-2008"
      -   Document on HIV/AIDS Situation in Saint Lucia. Ministry of Health,. Human
          Services and Family Affairs.
      -  Allocation of Portfolios to Ministers -Government of Saint Lucia
      -   Saint Lucia: Public Expenditure Review - Health; World Bank ,September 2002
      -   Country Health Profile 2002: Saint Lucia and CountryChapter fromHealth in
         Americas, 2002Edition; PAHO; Washington DC
      -  HIV&AIDS Surveillance Report -Saint Lucia 1985-2001; MinistryofHealth,.
         HumanServices andFamily Affairs.
      -  HIV/AIDS inSaint Lucia -A Situation & Response Analysis; Suzanne D.Burke
         and Ainsley P. Charles; October 2002
      -  National Coordinating Committee on HIV/AIDS -Terms of Reference-April
         2003
      -  Health Systems and Services Profile - Saint Lucia - September 7,2001; PAHO,
         Washington DC
      -  AIDS -The Response- Saint Lucia; M a y 22,2002; prepared by Dr.M.
         Grandison-Didier et al.
      -  Report on Regional WorkshopheldinBelize City, September 17-19,2003 by
         Cyrus Reynolds, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labor Relations and

      -  Public Service
         HIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean. Issues and Options. World Bank. 2001.

B. ProjectDocuments
      -- Draft Project Operations manual.
         Health Care Waste Management Plan.

C. BankAssessments
      - Financial management capacity assessment.
      -  Procurement management capacity assessment.




                                           90

                                       Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                              Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention And ControlProject



                                                                                                                     Differencebetween
                                                                                                                     expectedandactual
                                                              OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                             disbursements

Project ID N Pumose                                        IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.      Frm. Rev'd

PO77687    2002  Saint Lucia Emergency RecoveryProject        1.89     4.41    0.00      0.00     0.00     3.15      -0.04        0.00
PO70244    2002  LC Water Sector ReformTechAssist             1.30     1.30    0.00      0.00     0.00     2.27      0.86         0.00
PO77712    2002  6 0 LC Education (APM1)                      6.00     6.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     12.64      3.41        0.00
PO54939    2000  LC-POVERTY REDUCTIONFUND                     1.50     1.50    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.44      0.36         0.00
                                                   Total:    10.69    13.21    0.00      0.00     0.00     18.50     4.59         0.00




                                                         SAINT LUCIA
                                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillions of US Dollars


                                                              Committed                                Disbursed

                                                             IFC                                     IFC
        NApproval   Company                      Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity     Quasi      Partic.




                                Total portfilio:  0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00




                                                                           ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                     NApproval      Company                            Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                         Total pendingcommittment:     0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                  91

                                              Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                           Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS PreventionAnd Control Project

 Saint Lucia at a glance                                                                           3110104

                                                                         Latin   Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                        Americ middle-
                                                                         a               Development diamond'
                                                                   Saint &Carib. income
                                                                   Lucia                            Lifeexpectancy
2002
Population,mid-yea
GNIpercapita (Atla                                                                                        T
                                                                                         GNI
                                                                                          Per
                                                                                         capita

Population(percent)                                                1.4   1.5     1.2
Laborforce (percent)                                                     2.2     1.8

                                                                                              Accessto improvedwater source

Poverty (percent ofpopulationbelownationalpoverlyline)
Urban population(percent oftotalpopulation)                        38    76     75
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                     71    71     73
Infantmortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                              13    27      19
Childmalnutrition(percen            n under5)                            9
Access to an improvedwa              (percent ofpopulation)        98    86     90
Illiteracy (percent ofpopulationage 754                                  11     7
          primaty enrollment      (percent of school-age           106   130     105
         On)
                                                                   105   131     106
    Female                                                         108   128     105

KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS

                                                                   1992  2001   2002
                                                                                          Economic ratios'


GDP (US$ billions)                                            0.14 0.48  0.65   0.66                    Trade


Grossdomestici                                                                                            T




                                                                                          Domestic                   Investment
Gross nationalsa                                                                          saving5


Currentaccount
                                                                                                     Indebtedness
Total debt/GDP
Total debt servicele
Presentvalue of d




(averageannualg




                                                             92

                                                                                                                                   I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                                                                   Growth of investmentand GDP [%I 1
                                                             1982    1992   2001     2002          20

(percent of GDP)                                                                                    b

Agriculture                                                  13.9    13.4   6.3      6.7          -20
Industry                                                     20.8    20.0   18.8      18.8
  Manufacturing                                              9.1     7.5    4.9       5.0         -db

Services                                                     65.3    66.7   74.8     74.5                  -GO1         -GDP


Private consumption                                          68.5    70.2   68.6     70.5
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                 24.0    14.6   16.9      16.5
Importsof goods and services                                 83.8    76.5   56.8      58.7



                                                             1982- 1992-02 2001       2002
                                                             92                                   Growth of erports and imports [%I

(average annualgrowth)                                                                            10 T
                                                                                                   5
Agriculture                                                  6.4     -6.6   -24.4     7.2          b
Industry                                                     10.2    1.5    -3.7      -0.6        -5

  Manufacturing                                              9.6     -0.8   -4.9      1.2        -io
                                                                                                -15
Services                                                     7.1     2.3    -3.7      -1.1      -2b

                                                                                                        -Export$      -Import$
Privateconsumption                                           9.9     1.5    -6.0      4.6
Generalgovemmentconsumption                                  4.2     2.4    4.9       0.7
Gross domestic investment                                    9.9     -1.8   -26.9     7.6
Importsof goods and services                                 11.1    -1.2   -16.4     5.3




Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates.

* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in
bold) compared with its incomegroup average. If data are
missing,the diamond will
  be incomplete.




                                                                                                         Saint Lucia

PRICES        and      GOVERNMENT                                Inflation [%I
FINANCE
                                          2001       2002
Domesticprices
(percent change)
Consumer prices                           2.5        2.5
Implicit GDP deflator                     1.3        1.8        - 2 r   97   48     94    bb   01     b2
                                                                -d
Government finance
( percent of GDP, includes current                                      -GDP    deflator  -CPI

grants)
Current revenue                           25.3       23.3
Current budget balance                    2.6        -0.3
Overall surpluddeficit                    -4.6       -8.3

TRADE
                                          2001       2002
(US$mi/lions)




                                                            93

Total exports (fob)                  52    71
  Bananas                            15    17                                                       II
  Fruitsand vegetables               1     1           Ezport and import levels[US$ mill.)

  Manufactures                       11    26      I 4 b 0 - r
Total imports (cif)                  311   333
  Food                               65    69         300
  Fueland energy                     15    16
 Capital goods                       61    65         200

                                                      100
Exportprice index (1995=100)         95    94    I
Import price index (1995=100)        84                  0
Terms of trade (1995=100)            113                       $6  97  9f    94      00    01   02

                                                                   aExports         m Import5
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                     2001  2002
(US$ millions)
Exportsof goods and sewices          357   361   I     Current account balance to GDP [ X )         C
Importsof goods and sewices          368   387          b
Resourcebalance                      -10   -26         -2

Net income                           -41   -43         -d

Netcurrent transfers                 14    13          -I

                                                       -I
                                                     -10
                                                      -12

Current accountbalance               -37   -56        -14
                                                      -16

Financingitems (net)                 47    48



Changes in net reserves              -10   7

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//ions) 87    80
Conversionrate (DEC, /oca//US$)      2.7   2.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE
FLOWS
                                     2001  2002
(US$mi//ions)                                            Composition of 2002 debt [US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed  236   414
  IBRD                               5     5                               A 5 8:PO
  IDA                                12    20

Total debt service                   25    98
  IBRD                               1     1
  IDA                                0     0

Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                     18    0
  Officialcreditors                  -5    10
  Privatecreditors                   7     30
  Foreigndirect investment           51    0
  Portfolioequity                    0     0
                                                                                          -
World Bank program                                      A . IBRD                        E Bilateral
                                                         B IDA     D Other multilateral
                                                                     -                  F Private
  Commitments                        0     12            C IMF
                                                            --                          G Short-tcrm
                                                                                          .-
  Disbursements                      1     8
  Principalrepayments                1     1
  Netflows                           0     7
  Interestpayments                   0     0
  Nettransfers                       0     7




                                                 94

95


