Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB518 
Project Name 
ST. LUCIA HIV/AIDS PREVENTION & CONTROL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P076795 
Borrower(s) 
ST. LUCIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Government of St. Lucia 
Ministry of Finance 
Financial Center, Bridge Street 
St. Lucia 
Tel: 758-468-5502 
Fax: 758-452-6700 
 
Ministry of Health 
Stanislaus James Building, Waterfront 
St. Lucia 
Tel: 758-453-6966 
Fax: 758-452-5655 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 3, 2003 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 23, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The HIV/AIDS pandemic is a global threat to development and the World Bank, together with other international 
partners, are committed to intensified action to prevent and control the pandemic and mitigate its social and 
economic impact. The Caribbean region, to which St. Lucia belongs, is second only to the Africa region in adult 
prevalence rates of HIV/AIDS infection. Surveillance data from the Ministry of Health of St. Lucia, while having 
some limitations in terms of reliability of  data collection, indicates that from 1990 to 2001, HIV prevalence among 
women attending antenatal clinics has ranged from 0.6% to 4.0%, suggesting that St. Lucia has not yet crossed the 
5% HIV prevalence rate that could signal that the epidemic is generalized in the population. St. Lucia, therefore, has 
an opportunity to prevent the epidemic escalating and posing a problem to socio-economic development as it has in 
other countries. 
 
The Government of St. Lucia’s response has included prevention measures with very limited treatment or 
mitigation, due to, among others, limited resources available to respond to the pandemic in a comprehensive 
manner.  In order to intensify its response to the pandemic, the Government is finalizing the National HIV/AIDS 
Strategic Plan 2003-2008.  The proposed project, by assisting the Government in the implementation of its National 
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan is consistent with the CAS for the Eastern Caribbean Sub-Region of June 2001 (Document 
No. 22205-LAC) which identifies HIV/AIDS prevention and control as a priority for urgent Bank support.  It is also 
consistent with the Caribbean Region Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control APL approved by the 
World Bank in June 2001.  The St. Lucia HIV/AIDS prevention and control project will be funded as part of this 
APL.  With the exception of the recent approval of the Global Fund grant of US$ 1.1 million (under a broad 
proposal for the OECS countries), there is no major donor funding of HIV/AIDS programs through the Government.  
A number of NGOs supporting HV/AIDS receive donor funds or from their international affiliates.  However, the 
low level of donor involvement in St. Lucia’s HIV/AIDS response is striking.  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
Page  2
 
 
The project will support  control of the spread of HIV/AIDS and mitigation of its impact. It will support targeted 
interventions for high risk groups and non-targeted interventions for the general population. It is expected that the 
implementation of the project will lead to: a) increased awareness of HIV/AIDS and use of prevention services by 
high risk groups and the general; b) increase in the number of  people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and their 
families who are receiving care and support; and, c) strengthening of both public sector and civil society capacity to 
respond to HIV/AIDS.    
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The  project is part of the World Bank Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control APL for the Caribbean. A 
project of US$ 7.5 is envisaged with the Bank providing ( US$ 6 million blend of IBRD, IDA Credit and IDA 
Grant)  proposed with four components: 
 
Component 1: Community and civil society initiatives.  
Support to prevention, care and 
support activities led by communities, Non Government Organizations (NGOs), faith based 
organizations, women’s organizations, the private sector and other similar organizations.  The 
project will also support efforts aimed at enhancing the implementation capacity of civil society 
organizations to effectively respond to HIV/AIDS including: training in HIV/AIDS knowledge 
and communication; and financial management.  The project will also support essential 
equipment and supplies for NGOs to enable them to respond effectively. 
 
Component 2: Line ministry response
.  This component will support the response of the non-health sector 
ministries to HIV/AIDS.  Activities include cross-cutting HIV/AIDS interventions which all ministries will 
implement: (a) development and implementation of workplace HIV/AIDS policies; (b) Information, Education and 
Communication/Behavior Change Communication (c) condom distribution and promotion (d) advocacy to reduce 
HIV/AIDS stigmatization and discrimination (e) establishment of a support group for HIV/AIDS (either as a single 
ministry or in collaboration with other ministries). The project will also support specific HIV/AIDS related 
interventions specific to each ministry. For example, the ministry responsible for education has a specific target 
group (pupils and students in school) who may require specific HIV/AIDS programs relevant to the sector.  
 
Component 3: Strengthening the health sector response to HIV/AIDS.  
The project will 
support the strengthening and expanding of health sector HIV/AIDS related services for 
prevention, treatment, care and support, which will include: Voluntary  
Counseling and Testing (VCT), condom promotion and provision; introduction of syndromic 
management of sexually transmitted diseases; management of opportunistic infections; home 
based care for PLWHA; prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV including treatment 
of the mother and family (PMTCT-Plus); support of nutritional interventions for PLWHA; 
introduction of anti-retroviral treatment (ART); strengthening of laboratory capacity; training of 
health workers to respond to HIV/AIDS; blood safety; and, medical waste management.  The 
capacity building and strengthening of this sector will contribute to the overall strengthening of 
the health care system. 
 
Component 4: Strengthening institutional capacity for program management.  
This component will support the 
building of institutional capacity for program coordination, facilitation and management. In particular, it will fund 
the operations of the National HIV/AIDS policy making body (to be formed), the National HIV/AIDS Program and 
the project coordination unit (PCU). The National HIV/AIDS Program will be the institution that will be responsible 
for day to day running of project activities, while the PCU will be responsible for financial management and 
procurement under the direction of the National HIV/AIDS Program. 
 
 
 
 
Page  3
 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project and in what ways?  
What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 1.5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
3.0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
1.5 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
1.5 
 
Total 7.5 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Mary T. Mulusa 
Title: Sr Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-1937 
Fax: (202) 522-1201 
Email: Mmulusa@worldbank.org
 
