Document of
The World Bank                   FILE CC
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2822-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restriced distributen and nay be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
In August 1979, the Bangladesh Taka was officially devalued
relative to the Pound Sterling to a rate of Tk 34.7 to the Found.
The Pound Sterling now floats relative to the US dollar and conse-
quently, the Taka-US dollar rate is subject to change, although it
has been fairly stable for some time at around Tk 15.5 per dollar.
The rate below, which was the actual exchange rate at the time the
report was prepared has been used throughout this report except
where otherwise stated.
US$1               =       Taka 16.0
Taka 1             =      US$0.062
Taka million               US$62,500
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIWTC     -    Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BLP       -    Bangladesh Landsat Program
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Board
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization
PD        -    Forest Department
FRI       -    Forest Research Institute, Chittagong
FRTC      -    Forest Rangers Training College, Sylhet
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MAF       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MLALR     -    Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform
MM        -    Man Month
PP        -    Project Proforma
PTU       -    Plantation Trial Unit
CCF       -    Chief Conservator of Forests
DCCF      -    Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests
ACCF      -    Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests
CCPC      -    Conservator, Coastal Plantation Circle
CF        -    Conservator of Forests
DCF       -    Deputy Conservator of Forests
DFO       -    Deputy Field Officer
RFO       -    Range Forest Officer (Ranger)
BANGLADESH FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:         US$11 Million
Terms:          Standard
Purpose:        The project would continue and expand the Government's ongoing
Mangrove Plantation Program in the coastal districts of Chit-
tagong, Noakhali, Patuakhali, and Barisal by financing its
total cost over a period of five years. It would cover all
capital investments, and provide additional support services.
Quantifiable benefits will arise from the production and sale
of marketable fuelwood, pulpwood, and sawlogs. The main bene-
ficiaries would be landless laborers living near the plantations
who will have better employment opportunities and use of non-
marketable fuelwood free of charge.
Project risks include possible selection of unsuitable plant-
ing sites minimized by FD's long experience in plantation
location and establishment; the impact of cyclonic storms
minimized by the wide distribution of plantings and poaching
which would be controlled by FD's protection program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Project
Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
…    (US$ Million)-----
PLANTATION DEVELOPMENT
Plantation establishment           2.5        -       2.5
Plantation management              3.2        -       3.2
Staff Housing & Offices            1.1      0.4       1.4
Boats, Vehicles & Equipment        0.3       1.0      1.3
Maintenance and repair             1.5       1.1      2.6
Sub-Total                    8.6       2.5      11.0
SUPPORT SERVICES
Plantation Trial Unit              0.3      0.2       0.5
Public Relations & Training        0.1       0.1      0.2
Remote Sensing                     0.1      0.5       0.6
Sub-Total                    0.5       0.8       1.3
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                           0.5      0.4       0.9
Price                              3.2      0.8       4.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST /a        12.8      4.5      17.2
Financing Plan:                                         GOB /a   IDA      Total
-----US$ Million------
6.2      11       17.2
Estimated Disbursements:
FY81    82    83    84   85    86
Annual          0.7   2.6   2.0   2.5   2.4   0.8
Cumulative      0.7   3.3   5.3   7.8  10.2  11.0
Economic Rate
of Return: /b      About 18%.
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh Mangrove Afforestation Project, March 27,
1980; Report No. 2840-BD.
/a   Including taxes and duties amounting to US$2.1 million.  Also totals may
not agree due to rounding.
/b   Calculated on basis of benefits from establishment and maintenance of
100,000 acres of new plantation only.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH FOR A MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
1.        I -ubmit the following ieport and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$11.0 million, on standard IDA terms, for a Mangrove Afforestation
Project. The Credit would help finance the planting of 100,000 acres of
coastal mangroves over 5 years with suitable strengthening of the supporting
services, including research.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-Term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically during t,ese troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence
level only in 1975/7t'; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per
year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels
near minimum standards. The terms of trade worsened considerably and the
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the difficulties. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national govern-
ment from a provincial administation, and the consolidation of Government
authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy makers in the
first half of the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, has led to a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. Although it
was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence level, between
FY75-79 GDP increased (in real terms) by about 25%--an average annual rate of
6% notwithstanding setbacks to agricultural production experienced in FY77 and
again in FY79. The late 1970s may, therefore, be characterized as a period of
consolidation and economic recovery following the shocks of the early 1970s.
In recognition of its need for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended to give
the Government time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.
1/   Part I of this report is substantially the same as Part I of Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation (P-2781-BD), dated April 24, 1980.



- 2 -
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who had won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for the economy.
Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10%
increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8% in real terms, following a
2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past two years has again demon-
strated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy. During this
period, economic developments were dominated and largely determined by the
consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and floods.
These conditions affected adversely both the foodgrain crops (which represent
roughly one-third of GDP) and the quality of the jute crop; they also had
repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation, which was aggra-
vated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid rises in rice
prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth in FY79 slowed
sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually, real per capita income
rose only minimally. On the positive side, FY79 was characterized by a contin-
uing strong performance of the construction sector, improved budgetary perform-
ance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of
significant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of exchange rate
management and public sector pricing. Due to the continuing effect of the
1978-79 drought, the outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth will be about 4-5%,
i.e., well below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY79 was considerably (7%) below the previous year's level.
Together with a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of food aid during
the first half of CY79, this resulted in a fall in per capita availability of
food and in an increase in rice prices to levels unrecorded since the food
crisis of FY75. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement from the small
crops and high offtakes from the public grain distribution system led to a
rapid depletion of public food stocks which fell to the dangerously low level
of only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort to import and distribute the massive volume of
foodgrains needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and December 1979. This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.



- 3 -
Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the other sectors
of the economy was held to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other bulk commodities and the shipment of exports were
impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain imports. Neverthe-
less, the authorities were able to unload and distribute this unprecedented
volume of foodgrain imports in a minimal amount of time, enabling offtake to
be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more comfortable level. By the
beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices had begun to ease and what
might have become an extremely serious food crisis was averted.
9.         The slow growth of agricultural production has become the principal
focal point of concern among Bangladesh's political leadership and economic
planners. The Second Five-Year Plan is expected to give top priority--together
with population control--to agriculture, and especially to food production.
Meanwhile, the short-term food supply outlook is still problematic, although
the public stock position at the end of CY79 was adequate because of the sub-
stantial imports between July 1979 and December 1979. The 1979/80 aman crop,
also affected by the drought, was not much better than last year's, and pro-
curement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price increase--
was very small. In order to avert a repetition of the CY79 situation, consid-
erable additional imports will be needed in CY80. The FY80 boro and wheat
crops appear to be good, but efforts to ensure an adequate stock of foodgrain
to meet 1980 consumption and stock build-up requirements cannot yet be relaxed.
A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in late January
1980 to consider the country's food situation, import requirements and policy
measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent experience. A
Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues," prepared for consider-
ation at that meeting, was distributed to the Executive Directors in December
1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.        Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in
the balance of payments, as the need to finance commercial purchases of food
imports was evidently a factor underlying the Government's rather cautious
implementation of its import program. Other factors included a slow rate of
utilization of import licenses during the latter part of the fiscal year. As
a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies. The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were still
not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the projec-
ted levels of FY80. A substantial increase in the current account deficit is
projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price
of foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported crude
oil and petroleum products and other imports. Reserves at the end of FY80
are likely to be equivalent to scarcely one month's projected FY81 imports.
1/   Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



- 4 -
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in
value in FY79 and the terms of trade improved somewhat during the year, the
trade deficit widened to $1 billion. The value of raw jute exports increased
by 47% over the previous year's receipts, reflecting increases in both volume
and prices. Export earnings from jute manufactures rose by 11% in FY79, as a
decline in export volume was more than offset by an increase in unit prices.
Relatively large gains were also recorded in exports of leather, fish and
shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the notable developments
on the import side in FY79 was the decline in food imports, owing mainly to
the delays in food aid arrivals noted above. Capital goods imports rose by
21% to US$384 million; fertilizer imports nearly doubled in value, and there
were significant increases also in imports of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The current account deficit in FY79 was considerably smaller than
the trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of workers'
remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most
important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods
exports. A notable development was the US$100 million increase in project
aid disbursements in FY79, reflecting in part the country's growing absorp-
tive capacity. Total aid disbursements, which exceeded US$1 billion for the
first time, were equivalent to 63% of total merchandise imports. Debt serv-
ice payments rose to US$95 million, notwithstanding some debt relief measures
undertaken by various donors, and the debt service ratio deteriorated from
13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of
exchange rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's financing require-
ments in FY80.
14.       The terms of trade are expected to remain unchanged in FY80 as
rising export prices for jute goods have helped to offset the impact of rising
petroleum and other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports are expec-
ted to increase by about 24% and imports by over 50% in value; foodgrain and
petroleum purchases alone will account for over three quarters of the increase
in imports. The FY80 current account deficit is expected to be largely covered
by disbursements of approximately $400 million in food aid, $500 million in
commodity aid and between $450-500 million in project aid--a total aid dis-
bursement of about $1.4 billion (i.e., roughly 35% more than in FY79). The
FY81 balance of payments situation is likely to be quite difficult even if
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



commodity aid availabilities increase substantially. The terms of trade are
projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly an expected fall in jute
goods export prices and a continuing rise in import prices. The FY81 current
accout deficit, therefore, could well be on the order of $1.8 billion.
Public Finance
15.       The public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve
further in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus
to the development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as rela-
tive terms. Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a
source of budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless,
inflation has again become a serious problem, and the implementation of many
projects, both aid-supported and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insuf-
ficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds. Further improvements in the
mobilization of domestic resources are urgently needed if the ratio of public
investment to GDP is to be raised above the 8-10% level of recent years.
16.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). Reflecting its growing awareness of the problem, the Govern-
ment impaneled a Taxation Enquiry Commission and five special committees to
review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectivrly: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of ihe rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) eco-
nomic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input sub-
sidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial
performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have concluded their
work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted
to the Government in April 1979.
17.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the interim
report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax
administration, have been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the
Government increased railway fares, and in the course of FY79 and FY80 it
raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and commodity sales
prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were
increased by 9-29% in August 1979 and petroleum product prices by up to 45%
in November 1979. In some cases these price adjustments only kept up with
inflation, but in others they served to reduce the subsidy burden in real
terms.
18.       Development expenditures (in current prices) increased by almost 40%
and total revenues by about 21% in FY79; development expenditures are projected
to increase by a further 29% and revenues by 21% in FY80. Increased develop-
ment activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project
aid, which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a
further 24% in FY80. As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic
budgetary deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as



well. But inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily
by too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into
FY79, especially in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very
rapidly. The cost of living (COL) index for urban consumers rose by an
estimated 19% between June 1978 and June 1979 although the average COL index
for FY79, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices, was only 9% above
that for FY78. The outlook for FY80 is that the inflation rate for the year as
a whole will be on the order of 15-16%, with liquidity rising by some 17-18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing the plans, the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade.
These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation and flood control, inade-
quate administrative capacity, low domestic resource mobilization, and social
impediments to change. The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by
the basic structural conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to
natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high rate of population
growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution of income and land owner-
ship; a high ratio of population to land; extreme fragmentation of landholdings
and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural population; high illiteracy;
poor health and short life expectancy; high unemployment and underemployment
and scarce employment possibilities outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence
on foreign aid, not only for investment financing, but also for food and other
recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in this Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of foodgrains. The potential for increasing
foodgrain output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields and cropping inten-
sity are low, and fertilizer use is still very modest. Except for last year,
when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer demand has been
growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded quickly since FY75 and
is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there seems to be a large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly food production can
be increased remains to be determined. The Plan's targets have yet to be
announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.
21.       Recent projections 1/ indicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million
by the year 2000 if a net reproduction rate of 1 were not reached until 2035.
These projections imply that the population growth rate, currently estimated
at about 2.5-2.7% per annum, would not decline very dramatically over the
next 15 to 20 years--a grim but seemingly realistic prospect in view of
the poor implementaEion and limited success of birth control efforts in
Bangladesh so far. The implications of such a rate of population growth for
1/ World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Table 17, pg. 158.



-7-
the country's development prospects are staggering. The density of population
on cultivable land would increase from 3.8 persons per acre at present to over
6.2 persons per acre by the end of the century. In a country where the main-
stay of the economy is agriculture and where food shortages are already serious,
the adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious. Annual foodgrain
requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption level of about
15.5 ounces per day, would increase from about 14 million tons at present to
roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. Domestic production would almost
have to double from its record level of about 11.9 million tons (net of seed,
feed and waste) achieved in FY78 to meet this requirement. Substantial in-
creases in cropping intensity and in yields will be required, therefore, even
to maintain food consumption at a subsistence level.
22.       A significant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic
needs and the provision of improved public services will also be extremely
difficult to achieve without a drastic reduction in the rate of population
growth. By the same token, it will become increasingly impossible to educate
the rapidly growing number of people and to provide gainful and productive
employment opportunities for them. In recognition of these factors, high
priority is being given by the Government to improving the performance of its
family planning program.
23.       Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed on the
satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate
clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The planners
recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and other
targets, but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their
achievement.
24.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
wilL place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improve-
ments can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project
implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots pa-Cicipation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
25.       Bangladesh became a member cf the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 M, made originally to Pakistan before 1971. In
addition, 40 new credits have been approved, totaling US$1,146.7 M; of these,
US$575 M have been for program credits (eight import program credits and one



- 8 -
fertilizer imports credit). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and disbursements as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and
one investment for a shipbuilding and engineering company has been approved.
26.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 1/  (If workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.)
While the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-
1980s, it could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are
pursued and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's
total outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over
US$3 billion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan
accounting for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of
Bangladesh's total debt service payments; and because assistance is now
entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly.
27.       The main focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agricul-
ture (14 of the 31 projects, and one fertilizer imports credit). This is con-
sistent with the country's needs and the Government's priorities. Particular
emphasis continues to be placed on projects that provide agricultural inputs,
improve water management, develop rural infrastructure, process or provide
products for rural areas, and reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign
exchange resources. The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes
this an extremely high priority sector also, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. The first population project is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower is also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training.
28.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfer of
resources and the persistent structural weakness of the economy, program lending
will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations in Bangladesh.
The industrial sector has also benefited from DFC and small scale industry
projects and a fertilizer production project. IFC is currently in the pro-
cess of identifying further suitable investment opportunities.
29.       IDA should continue to provide assistance to critical infrastruc-
tural areas such as transportation, energy and power, and telecommunications.
A first power project was approved in late FY79 and a second highway project
was approved this FY.
30.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were
serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Some
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



- 9 -
progress has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture
is improving. IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under three technical
assistance crpdits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
31.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment - where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
32.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
33.       Forestry accounted for about 2% of GDP in FY77/78 and employed
something less than 2% of the total work force. Although this contribution is
small, forests play a vital role in supplying fuel and construction materials.
Forests also have an important environmental role.
34.       The forest estate covers about 6.2 million acres and can be class-
ified in three groups: (a) state-owned forest reserves: about 3.3 million
acres, of which 1.4 million acres are under mangroves, 0.3 million acres under
central lowland forests, and 1.5 million acres under hill forests; (b) state-
owned unclassified forests of about 2.2 million acres; and (c) private woodlots
of about 0.7 million acres. Forest reserves and private woodlots are the
main sources of wood supply. The unclassified forests are generally degraded
because of shifting cultivation practices and illicit fellings. In FY73,
annual wood production was estimated at 56 million cu ft (1.6 million m
Consumption of wood, both as fuelwood (31 million cu ft) and for industrial
purposes (25 million cu ft), is very low in Bangladesh. In annual per capita
terms, Bangladesh uses about 0.3 cu ft industrial wood and about 0.4 cu ft
fuelwood. In the case of industrial wood, this figure reflects the under-
developed state of industry, and simple housing construction, which is based
predominantly on bamboo. But in the case of fuelwood, an energy survey con-
ducted in 1976 indicated a total domestic energy consumption of about 0.7
million kcal per capita which is equivalent to about 10 cu ft/annum of fuel-
wood. The difference between total home energy consumption and fuelwood use
demonstrates that there is considerable use of other types of energy sources,
mainly agricultural residues and cow-dung, but also kerosene, gas and elec-
tricity.



- 10 -
35.       The Government's main objectives for the forestry sector are:  to
expand the productivity of forest reserves through better forest management,
to expand the resource base through plantations, and to increase the produc-
tion potential of private and community forests.
36.        Several studies have been made in the past concerning the development
potential of the forestry sector. They identified as main problems: (a) an
inadequate resource base relative to demand for forest products; (b) popula-
tion pressure on scarce land resources, and difficulties in securing land for
forestry; and (c) lack of basic data for planning purposes. A number of
international and bilateral aid agencies are now assisting the Forest Depart-
ment in carrying out inventory, surveys and research. They include UNDP/FAO,
ADB, ODM-UK, CIDA, SIDA and the Australian government.
The Coastal Afforestation Program
37.        The coastal areas of Bangladesh cover about 8,000 sq. miles, includ-
ing islands in the Bay of Bengal. An estimated 20 million people, mainly
engaged in agriculture and fisheries, live in the five coastal administrative
districts of Khulna, Patuakhali, Barisal, Noakhali, and Chittagong. These
coastal areas suffer severely from cyclone damage. Between 1960 and 1970
alone, an estimated 300,000 people perished in storms and tidal waves.
38.       As a result of the destruction and loss of life in coastal areas,
the Forest Department began in 1966 a program of planting mangroves as an
additional protective barrier against wind and waves, outside the coastal
embankments constructed by the Water Development Board (BWDB). Mangrove
species were chosen because no other tree or field crop can grow in the saline
conditions of the coastal areas. The program concept was based on evidence
that the natural mangrove forest (in the so-called Sundarbans area) provides
some protection from wind and waves and that the planting of belts of mangroves
would give a worthwhile degree of protection. As the coastal afforestation
program proceeded, it became apparent that plantations also accelerate the
land accretion process and thus the time at which newly formed land can be
used for agricultural purposes.
39.       The Forest Departments' experience with mangrove plantations
resulted in the setting of additional objectives for coastal afforestation.
These include: (a) conservation and stabilization of newly accreted land and
acceleration of further accretions, with the ultimate objective of transforming
a large part of this area to agricultural land; (b) production of timber for
fuelwood and industrial use; and (c) creation of employment opportunities in
remote rural areas.
Plantation Establishment
40.        Selection of planting sites is carried out by individual field
officers. Foresters look for evidence of adequate sedimentation and some
degree of land stability. The latter is usually indicated by the occurrence
of dhansi grass (Oryza coarctata). The mangrove species are then selected
according to frequency of inundations and salinity. Field observations
indicate that only plantations subjected to frequent inundations maintain a



- 11 -
satisfactory growth rate, while species planted on high char (newly formed)
lands are showing signs of stagnation. FD has therefore decided that, in
future, mangrove plantations will only be established on low char lands, with
Keora (Sonneratia Apetala) being planted in low salinity areas and Baen
(Avicennia Officinalia) in higher salinity areas.
41.       Baen plantations are established by direct sowing; Keora planta-
tions require seedlings which are raised for nine months in forest nurseries
installed near the planting sites. Planting operations are spread from May to
October to reduce overhead costs, but most planting takes place during July
and August when results are best, because the heavy rains decrease salinity at
the planting sites. Prior to planting, the site is surveyed and planting
lines are marked to assure correct spacing. Normally, no soil preparation is
required, except where dhansi grass is well established.
42.       The per acre cost of plantation establishment, including nursery cost
and "beating up" (filling vacancies) in year 2, amounts to about Taka 430 for
Keora and Taka 220 for Baen. 1/ These estimates are based on an initial plant
population of 2,700 per acre, and another 300 seedlings per acre for replace-
ments. Labor requirements to establish Keora and Baen plantations are 30
and 15 man-days per acre respectively, and account for more than 80% of direct
planting costs. No difficulties are encountered in hiring casual laborers
from May-October for plantation establishment.
Upkeep of Immature Plantations
43.       Except for beating up to replace seedlings that are washed away by
wave action or otherwise destroyed, and limited chemical treatment against
insect pests, mangrove plantations need little upkeep. However, they require
protection against the uncontrolled grazing of cattle in young plantations and
the theft of wood as plantations mature. Plantations are thinned about nine
years after establishment. About two-thirds of the trees are cut to allow
the remaining trees to develop. Under the proposed project, about 80% of the
fuelwood would be made available free of charge to neighboring villagers and
the remaining 20% (the best material) would be marketed by FD through contrac-
tors.
Land Acquisition
44.       In 1976, it was estimated from the analysis of satellite imagery
that some 1.23 million acres of accreted land, or land in the process of
formation, existed in the Bay of Bengal and the estuaries of the main rivers.
The Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform (MLALR), by a notification
dated August 13, 1976, transferred this area to FD "so that the lands are
stabilized, protected, and thus made fit for cultivation."
FD Organization and Management
45.       GOB exercises control of the forest sector through the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests and the Forest Department (FD) headed by the Chief
1/   Excluding cost of maintenance.



- 12 -
Conservator of Forests (CCF), Dacca. The CCF is assisted by a Deputy Chief
Conservator (DCCF) responsible for Planning, and by three Assistant Chief
Conservators (ACCF) who are responsible for general administration, training,
posting and planning. The headquarter staff directs eight circles headed
by DCCFs with the following functional responsibilities:
(a)  Development and Training (Dacca), Extension, Wild Life
(Dacca); Forest Research Institute (Chittagong); Forest
Financing and Development Center (Kaptai);
(b)  Eastern Circle (Chittagong); Central and Northern Circle
(Rajshahi); Coastal Plantation Circle (Khulna).
46.       As of June 1979, the total number of established posts in the
department for professional, technical and vocational staff was 2,872 of
which 2,859 were filled. Total permanent staff, including administrative,
clerical and support staff exceeded 6,000. In addition, FD employs a labor
force of 500,000 in forestry operations.  The FD budget provision for FY79/80
is Taka 162 million (US$10 million).
Program Organization
47.       The coastal afforestation program is managed by the Conservator
Coastal Plantation Circle (CCPC) stationed at Khulna who is directly respons-
ible to the Chief Conservator of Forests, Dacca. It is executed by four
Deputy Field Officers (DFO's) in charge of divisions in the districts of
Patuakhali, Barisal, Noakhali, and Chittagong. Each division is divided
into a number of ranges which are headed by Range Forest Officers (Rangers).
Ranges are field units formed to facilitate administration and operations
within a division. A number of additional rangers have been posted to CCPC
to enable the formation of new ranges in 1980.
48.       Each range is usually subdivided into afforestation centers (beats),
each in the charge of a deputy ranger or forester. The forester is normally
assisted by several forest guards, who police plantation areas and assist in
labor supervision, and one or two plantation foremen in charge of labor gangs
who supervise nursery work. The DFO's set annual planting targets for each
range which is regarded suitable for new plantations. Rangers are then
advanced funds on a monthly basis to enable them to pay for transport, seeds,
and labor without referring back to their respective DFO's. This procedure
has worked well in the past and would be continued under the project. There
is no permanent forest labor force. Casual laborers, usually in gangs of 25
and headed by their own foremen are recruited from villages in the vicinity
of plantation sites.
Budgetary Constraints
49.       The ongoing planting program has stretched FD's existing financial,
manpower, housing, and transport resources. Cuts in approved budget alloca-
tions combined with accelerating inflation have kept the building program as
well as maintenance and replacement of the existing transport fleet in the
Coastal Plantation Circle far behind schedule. Additional resources are



- 13 -
badly needed to avoid neglect of existing plantations and to allow FD to meet
its current targets in establishing new plantations. The proposed project
would assist in providing the resources needed to develop new plantations and
to maintain existing and new plantations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission that visited
Bangladesh from October 22 to November 16, 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 2840-BD) dated March 27, 1980, is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for
the proposed Credit were held in Washington, D.C. in April/May 1980. The
Bangladesh delegation was led by Mr. A. Salam, Chief Agriculture Division,
Planning Commission.
51.       Project Description.  The proposed project would finance a five year
time slice of the Coastal Afforestation Program. Specifically, the project
would finance: development over five years of an additional 100,000 acres
of mangrove plantations on newly accreted land, and upkeep of some 80,000
acres of existing immature plantations, including Forest Department regular
staff and contract labor costs; construction of 370 staff quarters; purchase
of boats, motor vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles and other communications
equipment; an extension of training facilities for the Forest Department
staff; and a remote s:nsing program to define the size and location of newly
accreted land, and to monitor project induced changes in the accretion pro-
cess. A Plantation Trial Unit (PTU) would be established to strengthen
applied research in coastal afforestation and land use.   The proposed proj-
ect would be managed by the Forest Department through the Conservator Coastal
Plantation Circle. The structure and operations procedures of the Coastal
Plantation Circle are satisfactory and would largely remain unchanged for
execution. No organizational changes are envisaged, but new field staff
numbering about 930 would be employed, consisting mainly of Range Forest
Officers (RFO's), forest guards and boatmen.
Plantation Establishment
52.       Annual planting targets would be:  15,000 acres during the first
and second years, 20,000 acres in the third and 25,000 acres during the fourth
and fifth years. Land under mangrove plantations takes at least 20 years to
become sufficiently stabilized and enriched to allow agricultural use. GOB
would ensure that for land on which project plantation had been established
the official period of transfer to FD would be extended to cover the full
rotation cycle of mangroves and that adequate funds would be provided to
continue the maintenance of the plantations until maturity (Sections 3.08
and 3.01(b)).
Tree Harvesting and Land Disposition
53.       After 20 years, mangrove trees can be harvested for saw logs
pulpwood and/or fuelwood. After harvesting the trees, GOB plans to distribute



- 14 -
the land, which by then should be stabilized and suitable for crop production,
to landless laborers experienced in agriculture.
Staff Housing and Offices
54.       As the additional staff would be working in remote areas where there
is little opportunity to obtain rented accommodation, the proposed project
would finance construction of 367 permanent and semi-permanent staff quarters.
In addition, an office and a laboratory for the Plantation Trial Unit would be
constructed at Khulna, a new dormitory would be built at the Forestry Training
College at Chittagong, and Instructor's quarters would be built at Sylhet
Forest Institute.
Boats, Vehicles and Equipment
55.       Boats.  Except for Chittagong division (where most of the plantation
areas are accessible from the mainland) forestry staff, laborers and planting
materials have to be transported mainly by boat. Project implementation would
therefore depend on availability of suitable water transport. As of June 1979,
the Forest Department had one launch, 17 motorboats and 55 country-boats.  The
present fleet is inadequate in number to enable the Department to implement
their planned program. Presently, seed collecting and transportation have
been contracted to private boat owners. The project would provide 4 launches
for transport and accommodation of supervision staff and work crews, and a
vessel to transport seeds during the planting season. Motorboats are needed
when staff are on plantation supervision and protection duties; twenty-five
would be financed under the project for use by rangers engaged in project
activities. Country boats (open, wooden, non-mechanized craft) are used for
transporting workers and their requirements over short distances. Seventy
additional country boats would be provided: 20 heavy country-boats with
temporary roofing capable of transporting 32 people; 30 medium size country
boats with capacity to carry 15 people; and 20 small boats to carry about 9
people. These boats would meet all needs for water borne transport of staff
and hired labor.
56.       Vehicles.  To improve communication and plantation supervision in
areas with road access, the project would finance the purchase of six four-
wheel drive vehicles and two mini-buses. In addition, seven motorcycles and
60 bicycles would be bought and operated as departmental transport.
57.       Equipment.  The proposed project would provide eleven wireless sets
to be used by the Forest Department for normal management purposes and to:
(i) maintain communications between Khulna headquarters, divisional offices
and field stations; (ii) relay storm and cyclone warnings to staff who may
be operating in the coastal area; (iii) assist in transmittal of information
in cases of emergency. Existing radios, installed in cyclone shelters or in
postal and telecommunication agencies, cannot meet the Forest Department
requirement as their staff would be operating away from settled villages in
newly established coastal areas. Ten wireless base stations would be estab-
lished at Khulna, Barisal, Patuakhali, Noakhali, Chittagong, and aboard the



- 15 -
four launches and seed carrier. Eight wireless sets would be installed to
serve other remote range offices. To clarify areas of responsibility GOB
would ensure that by December 31, 1980 agreement would have been reached
between GOB departments concerning responsibilities of responsible departments
over wireless sets licensing, installation, maintenance and wavelengths allo-
cation (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
58.       Plantation Trial Unit.  To strengthen applied research in effective
plantation management techniques, the FD would, under the proposed project,
establish a Plantation Trial Unit (PTU). It would be headed by a Deputy
Conservator (silviculturist) directly responsible to the Conservator Coastal
Plantation Circle and would be located at Barisal. The PTU would specifically:
standardize the recording of data, monitor changing site conditions in plant-
ations, investigate ecological requirements of species, use the Bangladesh
Landsat Program to select appropriate sites for further planting, and develop
management concepts for optimum utilization of plantations. The project would
also include ten manmonths of technical assistance phased over the five year
implementation period to provide extra assistance to the PTU. By December 31,
1980, GOB would propose to IDA for comment a research program for the PTU.
Establishment of the PTU would be a condition for credit effectiveness (Sec-
tions 3.06 and 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
59.       Audio-Visual Equipment.  The majority of cultivators in the neighbor-
ing zones of the coastal area are sharecroppers, or take care of livestock
owned by absentee landlords. The landlords have been opposed to coastal
afforestation because of the loss of potential grazing land. The Forest
Department has now agreed to develop only the low char land which is not suit-
able for grazing (paragraph 40). The proposed project would provide audio-
visual equipment and materials required to inform villagers of this change
in policy, and to publicise thinning operations which will provide free
fuelwood to local villagers.
Training
60.       Project recruitment needs for forest rangers and guards would exceed
the present training capacities of the Forest Rangers Training College (FRTC)
Chittagong, and the Forest Institute at Sylhet. Under the project, the facil-
ities at the two institutions would be improved and expanded. The project
would provide an additional dormitory block at the FRTC Chittagong which would
allow doubling of the students enrollment from 15 every other year to 15 per
year. The Forest Institute at Sylhet, which runs two three-month courses each
year for Forest Guards, has only one instructor. The project would finance
an additional instructor and the construction of appropriate residential
accommodation, to increase the number of courses to three, and the number
of students from 60 to 90 per annum.
Monitoring
61.       Remote Sensing.  Land accretion, soil erosion, and the impact of
project activities would be monitored by remote sensing with aerial photo-
graphy as necessary. Remote sensing would also be employed in site selection
for new plantations. The required monitoring services would be carried out



- 16 -
by the Bangladesh Landsat Program (BLP) under contract to the Forestry Depart-
ment. The project would provide funds for: purchase and computer processing
of relevant LANDSAT tapes; aircraft support services including mapping; and
aircraft rental to carry out annual aerial photography of the project area in
support of remote sensing analysis as required. The project would also pro-
vide two manmonths each year for ground-truthing which is an essential compo-
nent of the remote sensing approach. GOB would prepare and furnish to IDA by
December 31, 1980 a work program for the monitoring of land accretion and the
control of the plantations (Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement).
62.       Reporting.  A  monitoring and data collection unit would be estab-
lished under a Deputy Conservator of the Coastal Plantation Circle which would
collect data for the semi-annual progress reports to IDA. GOB would ensure
that FD would submit a draft project completion report to IDA six months after
project completion scheduled for June 1985 (Section 3.04(b) and (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Costs
63.       The total cost of the five year project is estimated at about US$17.2
million of which US$4.5 million or 26% would be foreign exchange and US$2.1
million duties and taxes. All cost estimates are based on recent actual costs
for comparable items or services, projected to June 1980. Average cost of
consultants services is estimated at about $8,000 per man-month. Physical
contingencies added to the base cost estimates amount to 7% of base costs.
For civil works, boats, vehicles, equipment, the Plantation Trial Unit and
the remote sensing component a 15% contingency has been included. 1/   Price
contingencies amount to 30% of base costs and physical contingencies.
Financing Plan
64.       The proposed IDA credit of US$11.0 million would cover 72% of total
project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The credit would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs, and 61% of local costs, net of taxes and duties. GOB
would finance the balance of project costs. Proposed project funds would be
passed to FD through annual budget appropriations. Governmental approval of
the Project Proforma, providing funding and staffing required for the project
and satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
65.       Civil Works.  Staff housing and offices (US$2.4 million) would
include relatively small, simple structures widely distributed which would
be unsuitable for ICB. Construction would be carried out under contracts let
through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA or by Forest
Department force account in the event no responsive bids are received.
1/   This estimate was based on actual price escalations in Bangladesh for
building materials and wages in the construction industry over the
past two years.



- 17 -
66.       Boats, Vehicles and Equipment.  The four launches and the seed
carrier (US$700,000) would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. Motorboat hulls totalling US$80,000 would be purchased
off-the-shelf. Country boats (US$900,000) would be built locally and procured
through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles
and equipment would be procured on the basis of comparing prices from no less
than three suppliers. Since in any one year no more than thirteen out-board
engines, two vehicles and six motorcyles would be purchased, this procedure
would be justified in the interest of timely procurement. Other off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$100,000 for each contract, (but limited to a total
of US$500,000) would be purchased through normal GOB procedures which are
satisfactory to IDA.
67.       Technical assistance specialists and services estimated to require
about 12 man-months (US$750,000) would be recruited for the PTU and remote
sensing in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Disbursement
68.       Disbursements under the proposed credit are expected to be completed
by about March 31, 1986--nine months after project completion. Disbursements
would be made as follows excluding physical contingencies (US$800,000):
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and services and
60% of local expenditures for goods and services procured locally (US$2.0 mil-
lion); (b) 80% of total expenditures for civil works, salaries and wages of
FD staff aid local staff employed under contract for the proposed project
(US$5.1 million); (.) 100% of expenditure for technical assistance and over-
seas training (US$260,000); and (d) direct planting expenditure and main-
tenance for the 100,000 acres would be disbursed at the rate of US$32 per
acre for the 80,000 acres of Keora and US$18 per acre for the 20,000 acres
of Baen which would amount to 90% of total plantation establishment cost
(US$2.9 million).
69.       Direct planting expenditures would include:  procurement of seeds,
nursery costs, planting and upkeep of plantation, but would exclude wages and
salaries of permanent FD staff. Disbursement of direct planting costs would
be done in two tranches: out of the total rate per acre mentioned in para-
graph 68 above, the first tranche of US$22 and US$13 per acre--would be made
against quarterly statements of areas planted certified by the Chief Conser-
vator of Forests; the second tranche--being the balance (from the rate men-
tioned in paragraph 68) of US$10 and US$5 per acre would be disbursed twelve
months after planting against statements of successful project plantings
certified by the Project Manager in accordance with agreed criteria.
70.       Disbursements for salaries and wages of departmental staff would
be made against quarterly statements of expenditure prepared by the project
manager and certified by the Chief Conservator. Disbursement for all other
force account work and off-the-shelf purchases not exceeding Taka 100,000
for spare parts and equipment, would only be made against statements of
expenditures certified by the project manager and Chief Conservator. Full
documentation would be required for all other disbursements. For the purpose



- 18 -
of disbursements against statements of expenditure, the Forest Department's
institutional and staffing capabilities and experience, as well as budgeting
and accounting practices, are regarded adequate and satisfactory.
71.       Audit.  GOB would ensure that FD would have the project accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and shall, not later than nine months following the end
of each fiscal year, furnish certified copies of the audited financial state-
ments and accounts.
Production and Markets
72.       Wood Production.  Production of fuel and pulpwood is forecast to
begin with thinning operations in the ninth year; the final harvest of mature
trees would begin in the seventeenth year. Total production during the whole
project period would consist of about 274 million cu ft of fuelwood, half
marketable and half not marketable, 45 million cu ft of pulpwood and 45
million cu ft of sawlogs.
73.       Fuelwood.  The marketable half of the project's fuelwood output
would be sold through contractors in villages and towns within an estimated
70 mile radius from plantation sites. It would reach wholesale markets mainly
by river transport. The remaining half not of marketable quality (less than 3"
diameter) would be left for collection by villagers living close to the plan-
tations. During the thinning stage, FD would employ laborers to fell and
extract the trees, and to cut and stack marketable fuelwood at plantation
sites for sale to contractors. Contractors would be responsible for transport
and marketing operations. Final felling operations, including extraction,
stacking, transporting, and marketing would also be carried out by contractors
who are well experienced in this type of work. With present demand for
fuelwood far exceeding its supply, and with continued population growth,
no difficulties are expected in marketing the project's saleable fuelwood
output at attractive prices.
74.       Pulpwood.  Demand by the paper and panel industry can be projected
both for the case where the industry expands to increase exports or for the
case where new capacity is installed only to meet increases in domestic demand.
Assuming only the latter, annual demand for pulpwood from mangrove plantations
is estimated at 5.6 million cu ft in the late 1990's. Should the pulpwood
demand not materialise the wood could be sold for fuel at only slightly
reduced prices.
75.       Sawlogs.  The Forestry Department estimates a total annual log input
into the sawmilling industry of about 20 million cu ft. However, consumption
statistics from neighboring countries indicate that there may be a suppressed
demand for sawnwood in Bangladesh, representing a log input of at least 40
million cu ft per annum. Sawlog output from the mangrove plantations in the
peak production years will only be of the order of 11 million cu ft annually,
and no problem is foreseen in marketing this production to existing sawmills.



- 19 -
Project Benefits
76.       The economic rate of return based only on benefits from new planta-
tions wood production and excluding benefits from maintenance of existing
plantations, is estimated to be about 18%. In addition to wood production,
benefits would arise from other effects of the project. The project would
offer additional positions to about 900 people. In addition 4,000 casual
workers, mainly landless sharecroppers living close to the plantations would
be employed over a period of six months each year during 15 out of 21 years
for a total of about 9 million man-days. About 80% of marketable fuelwood
would replace an equivalent of 124,000 million tons of imported kerosene
presently valued at US$390 per ton cif Chittagong, thus leading to a saving of
about US$48 million during the project period. The project plantations would
conserve and stabilize newly accreted land which would, on completion of the
mangrove cycle, ultimately be distributed to landless laborers experienced in
agriculture.
77.       Project Risks.  Project plantations would be exposed to the following
hazards: incorrect site selection leading to seedling burial through heavy
sedimentation or erosion of the char; cyclone damage; and theft of the trees
and unauthorized grazing in the plantations by local people. Over the past 15
years FD has gained experience in site selection and losses from improper
selection are small. The wide distribution of plantings would keep cyclone
damage to a minimum. FD's staff will be strengthened and given communications
equipment to enable them to guard plantations. Risks can therefore be kept at
acceptable levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III and include as additional conditions of effectiveness, (a) the
establishment of a Plantation Trial Unit (Section 5.01(a) of DCA), and
(b) the approval of the Project Proforma (Section 5.01(b) of DCA).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 21, 1980



- 21 -
ANNEX I
P'age ]
TABLE 3A
PJAG-LAD!SB - SOCa INDICATOIS DATA SHrzx
LAND AlEA (TSOUSAliD SQ. 1X.)                  _UIESB                    L?ENCW1FS (L2JATUSTT
TOT"             1".O                                                   SAN&        5Ull        ZfL  IClIL
ACIICVLTMAL       ".9                                 ICST tXCuT      GSOCiAMIC   INCOME         DICOIZ
1960  &    1910 A  ESTIMATE /b A     UCIOR L   GROUP CL0t    G     1t s
CNP PER CAFITA CUSS)                  40.0        t0.0      90.0            191.1     2t9.6        A6.J
D11CS CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(I.LOCRAILS Of COAL tQUIVAlT)         ..         ..       33.0            69.1       53.9       262.1
POPULATION AlD VrTA. STATJSTIICS
POPUlATIOM. M1IDTAXk (MILLIONS)     51.4        68.3      81.2
I14  POtPL.ION (PULCIRT Of TOTAL)  5.2           7.6       9.3             13.2       16.2        24.6
POPU1ATION P1OJWTIOVS
IPOLAXTIOI LS TeYR 2000 (KELLIONS)                     145.0
STATIOEAIT POI'ULTION (MILLIONS)                       334.0
TE41 StATIONAR  POPUtAfO   IS  EACD                   2165.0
POPUlTION DEdSIT!
PlM SQ. M.                       357.0       474.0     564.0            66.6       *9.4        45.3
PI SQ. KM. AICULTIUi LL AD    540.0          683.0     813.0           330.2      252.0        149.0
?OPULATION AGE STmUCTURS (Pt)CE1)
0-14 TS1.                         44.3        46.4      46.0            44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 ns.                          52.5        51.0      51.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 'TS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.6       3.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION CzoDTB WE (PECWr)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.9       2.5             2.4        2.4         2. 7
MUAI                                ..         6.7       6.3             4.1        *.6         4.3
CELMO SlIEU KATZ (PU TOuSAD)        49.0        48.0      46.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRME DEATa RATE (PU THOUSAND)       23.0        20.0      16.0            16.4        15.9        11.7
GROSS IZRODDUCTION RATE              3.5         3.1       3.2             3.2        2.9          2.7
-AXILT PLANIlSC
ACCEPTORS. A2OWAL (TROUSANDS)       ..       345.6    1103.1
USLRS (RUCeN OF Of J1D WI)    ..                ..       8.9             7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND ?rRITIOW
tIWL: OP FOOD PRODUCTION
Pr27 CAPITA (1969-7 *100)        107.3       101.0      98.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPrIA SUTh or
CALORITS (PERCET (IT
-EQUIMClENS)                    89. 0j      89.0      93.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAKS PE  DAT)          42.6f         ..      58.5            56.1       52.1        54.3
Or W13CR AIY1AL AD PULSE         9.2/f        ..       8.0            10.4       13.6        17.4
CILlD (AGES 1-4) MiLTALrT RAr       29.0        25.0      23.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
UP  EXP£CTANCI AT  SME TAkS)    42.0            45.0      47.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
INFNT KOTAI.T  RATE (PER
ThOUSAND)                             *-       153.0     140.0              .       105.4        ".1
ACCESS TO SAE WAXtR (PUCNT OF
POPULATIOEN)
TOTAL                               ..        45.0      53.0            31.5       26.3        34.4
URBA                                ..        13.0      15.0            63.9       58.5        57.9
t1lUL                               ..        47.0      55.0            20.1       15.1        21.2
ACCESS M tS CTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION Pi?  PRISICIAN             ..      7600.OL/ 11350.0          7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
POP'LATION PF  NDURSING PERSON        ..     72030.L  53700.0          12064.0     5552.4      15S:.I
POPVLATION PER 80SPITA.L QED
TOTAL                          11000.0/     8120.0h  4430.0           2738.4     1417.1       726.5
URAN                                ..          ..        ..              ..      197.3       272.7
IRUAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..     2445.9      1404..
ADKISSIONS PEU  7OS1IT. AED           ..          ..        ..              ..       24.8        27.5
ROUSING
AVERACE SIZE Of IOU SE0LD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        5.3         5.4
MRBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..        *.9         5.1
101L        -                      ..          ..        ..              ..        5.4         5.5
AVtEAGE Nsmar or PRSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..
IIA-N                              ..           ..        ..              .           ..
RIJAI                               ..          ..        ..              .           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRIClT (PERCENT
OF DWILLINGS)
MIAL                                ..         ..         ..              ..        . 5        28.1
RBAN                                             .                                             .5.1
UL.                                 ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         9.



- 22 -                                 ANNEX I
?A.3 4  SOC'Le    XATMUTA   MrPage  2
IAISLADUX - 7110U. ZIiDICAOuk MTA S?T
-~~~~~~~~ US?D GZ~ 1S?ThT                                 .S 
on XCZVT    cloSAM e    1616z   3EV321
1940 tb     1970 /b ZTSMSZ lb   9U0b I   tc   Cw  Id                 .e
13fl1MT      TOML                  47.0        61.0       3.0             5.5        63.3         82.7
311                  66.0         30.0     106.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
m -                  26.0         42.0      60.0             43.7        s.4        7n.8
SZCOOUDII:   TWEL                   8.0        19.0      23.0             19.5       16.7         21.4
NML                  14 .0        30.0      36.0             27.8       22.1        3D.0
Foa                   t.0          8.0      11.0'            10.0       10.2         1.3
voCATIOEAL in.. (2 OF   s ?m      )   1.0         1.0        1.0             1.3         5.6         9.J
PPL --TEACl RATTO
..DUU     49.0      15.0             42.2       41.0         36.1
SECO                                 ..        26.0      24.0               ..       21.7         23.4
AWLT TrZTAST EZ (1MW?)               21 .6/1       ..       22.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
COWSDIfTOI
PA.'  ZXCAM 112t i8A3
PoUATOW                              ..         0.4       0.4/1            2.3        2.a          9.3
RDIO0cxva  II£ZR TNDSWS  
POPTAIZ                              ..         6.0         ..            13.5       27.2         76.9
TV 3c1IVIS3 PU   IUl[ND
oP T                                 ..          ..         ..              ..        2.4         13.5
1SPAPIZ MA*LY EMMAL
usr1zsT') CIRCULAION PU
'OSASrD POPMUAIO                       ..          ..       5.0              6.2        5.3         18.3
cMMA AIAL AM.hT?A0  Pn C*ITA                                                             1..         2.5
LADOK MICE
(FTAL  A03 10RCZ (11308A13)    18516.0        23402.0   29900.0
136L  (PZ%CZT)                    15.2        16.5      17.0            .21.        2481          2.2
AOIcuLTUh  (P31W?)                 86.8        65.9      78.0             66.3       69.6         62.7
11uSmtI  (112W?)                   3.3          3.5       7.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
P*AITIC!PATIX RATE (PUI?T)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.6      34.4             35.8       36.9         3.1
MALZ                                 56.7        55.8       55.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FLULZ                                11.4        11.8       12.1            15.7        13.0        20.4
EcoXc DZ3WESCT 1171O                   1.3         1.4        1.3             1.3         1.2         1.4
rNcOI DISTRsQTOW
PUCENT OF rflUE  :30
330C212 IT
EIEsT 5 1201TC   OF 1UUSZInD8    1.3j/         16.7k        ..              ..          ..        15.2
UWES? 20 P12W   01 UUSQllOS  *U.5/i            4.37~   ..                   ..          ..        Ua.2
LDUKST 20 1120        or 01   USDOLDS    6.9T   7.97E       ..              ..          ..         6.3
LOWZS  40 Pr2W? Of HOUDO1.DS   17.9g           19.67T       ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVENT? TARET C0O0  S
ESTImATD ABSOLUTE 10v1x? D1ICO
LEME  (US$ PU CAPETA)
Dm                                   ..c ..             110.0             8t 5       99.2        241.3
303*1                                ..          ..      91.0             74.2       7S.9        136.6
ISTDATD WEATTl 101112 MM~
LXIM  (SS PU  ZATA)
RAl                                  .            .         ..              ..       91.9        179.7
30Un1                               .*   ..            ..                 50.4       54.8        103.7
ESMATED POrMATIO3 BELOW ABSOLUTE
POllEr! 111003 LEVE (1MRCw?)
URBAN                                ..          ..      55.0              .3        4.1          24.8
RURAL                                .            .      74 0             52.4       53.9         37.5
Mot availAble
Noe applicable.
/a    The adjusted group arages for each indicetor ra  populatlou-weighted Seatric Sean, ezcluding the aetrr
values of the indicator and the most populated coe ttry in each puup.  Covermn  of coqmtries  ug  the
indicators depens oan avilS.U.lity of data sad is not anifot.
;b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to my y.r betwee  1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat RXeAnt Eslasts , betwen 1974 end 1977.
/c    South Aele; 7d  Law lnco_e (S280 or lose per capita 1976);  I7 Lower 1(4ddl  Itncce  (S231-550 per capita.
1976)1  /f W. 1961-65;  /j  Registered, noc ALI practicing in tho countrw;  /h  Covt. *ctablisbueata
only;  _i  1972;  LI  1963-4;  Jk  1966-67;  /l  1962;  /I  1913.
Most Recant Estiuta of CU? per capita Ls for 1978.
Augnet, L979



-23-ANE 
WUICS F'SOULnicAPVE                                                        Page  3
late,Atog   h  date. are drama froon sours. genrally judged thet mat asstbritati. And reliable, it should asW he noted thAt they mny sot he Itetesa-
iT~  oprble beeas.. of the lack or otandhrdloed definitions and conoepts used by diff.ep.n d05000i.. In collecting the data. Th. data are, nonetheless,
,44#ful to desoribe or'ders Of megcitude, indloate trendg, and obarwterizs certaIn Ma.Cr dIffereness b9tnees cocnatrio..
Theadlste  0500  vergesfor each indicator er. popoletion-meight5d geoatric mafne, eXCloding th. esrtre     v.1... of th. indloator and the  most populated
cowtryin  antgrop.   hoeto tees of data, goop s-ages of alt indicators fer Capital Surplu. Oil kxporters and of Indicators of Aece.s  Z0 Wdater and Zxorota
Disposal, Hnusiag, Id00.. Diatrihotion end P-wrty for other  donstry group  are powslatios-Ieghtd geontric  OsOsa  otthout exznsona of the extreme owus  o
ther  Ie Popultaed cODUtry.  S In  the oe~:yrag rof oountri.s  .Mog the  nlaoO000.0aalblt    f01   A  is  ot. ufoet _sut_o_ mot b.esoerot...
indicator at a tin  ann  th  cutry end referenoc group.
L01  AIZA  (thouand a.he.k)                                                                Ace... to fooret s 300..(coeto   o"i                      -t101  urban. cd rural1 
otl otal aurfaee  area oomprliain  land are  ansd tolecod        es                   0.C   f People. totl rban   n   us                oe   y  nsl   ips.a
Agricuoltura  -  Yost reoatt ..Ztiaate of Wg,Oltosral area used t-Worarily                  percentags Of their respeotive po  latio,.o. toretf disposaI my tootde
or pemanently for crops, pastures, narrhet and kitchen gardens or to                     the Oofleotio  and disposal, with or othbout treatment, of ha-  --.rte
lie faLto.                                                                                and t`ube-eater by  taatr-borva systems or the U.I of pit priies. and s.ioler
GNP  O  CJPITA(us$    0S   Per capita e.timwat,a at ooreot se,rket pros,potaltioo erPs ttta   Population 015,d5  by oumbr of preottotog physioo.an
'9~A db"t       yoii    do-aersim  inth    an sorid Bank Atlus 11976-78 banjo)- i           qEalified from   asaeloal  ehdocl at unloeraity Ievel
l960, 1973.and 1978 data.                                                                Ponslatogaspr NsngPerson - population divided by number of pratctitng nat
ENERGY COfsua011 Prot              AnnuSOfal ooouutso  of dopesertal -aand resl  gradute  urc, praotioal aures., sod ansisteot nurse..
onal sot ligite, ptrolsu, salon]. ga  andhydro-, ouoles, ano ge-            Posutation P    Ie Onpitl  0.-toa   urba   ad rural - Poplnoation (total. .
thee-a  eteotrility) i,0 oionrao, of 0... Iquitoalet per opitat19O                          end crale  dil;        yte,rseto              bro   opitile. beds avitoile to,
1970, 000 1976 data.                                                                        puh1it  and private geser.  so d apec-Ltoed bostpitaLL 000 rehaiolltatoo- canoters.
Hoopitsal  amrestahlishmedate perrinnetly oltffed by at leost use poyoo`so
P3PUlATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               Saoablishenoto pr-viding prisoopa.L1y  -ut.doal oae- are not tooeLd.d  b ural
TtlP=pottion. 141d-Year (millio...    A. of July I; 1960, 1970, and                     bosp.tals, homevr, iwluoc health and   eoioal oenter. 001 permsnntt, staffCu
1977 sata.                                                                                 by a. pbysioian (but by a mnedicael assistant,  urse. sidoife, 010.) 00.00 of fer
Urban  001.10  ipretonoa)-Otoo  ubnt  oa   Oolto;                                           t-patient aocomdatton and proVide a limited range of madinal f-oiotiea.
dlfforo  oeittioo   of urhan are.  may affCect cOmpsraillty of data                    AdOlOoSioos         p per I Stao.Be  - Total oune  of ad0.sion.00  tb or discharge. from
omgcountries; Ilk., 1.970  and 1970 data..bOoe   divde  by to.heo0m0r Of b...
Polo=tinn P-oJ..t- n
ftp4lstg.v   Year 2003 -Current poputatoh Oroleetioo   ore lased  on                 OOSSfIS
5 tnpitd  by age sod  -e  and toeir mrtalty sod ferttility                         Averae Sioe of Roosehold (erP=osper boohol(    Itotl   . r                    -n ual -
rates. frb3eetoon Parameters fo  mrtality rate. comprise of three                      A   houo ld  poaoits of a  rsyo  tsdliue"  ht hr  tv                   q.arer.sea.
levelo aesuntsog i"fe vopetancy at birth Increasing  ittO   -atryo.                    their main mal.  A bsre- Or lodger sMy or moy tot bo  nciliiood in the
per copota jisOme le-e, and f 0mb  Ilfe vopetany otahltotog at                         household fo  otat stiCsL poPose...
77.' yeasro   The paranetere for fertility rate also bae  thbree I.veIs              Avorae number of veroos par rom -tot1l  urba   ad ral- A,,rsgeoo-le,
anoumnog oecne on frilIty socorosog to ice leelad pantofPoreoo per ro.-  in  lt urban, and rural ccPe   Ov-otional deloo
failty  lamligs performance. Each ~ouwtry to then ansogod one of these                 respeotlvly.  Soettiogs  -ColUde nom-P.rmeo-t structures 50d unoo-,eoca-
nose coinatia   of sartality and fertility trends for proteotion                     AooSO to Electrooityt- vren  ofosilg              - total. -rban, end rAr0-     20
purposes.                                                       oeot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i_tnL dollinn    oh  ltro yt  lodeo  q ares a. peteton   S
sta1t00527 000001.110  - 1n a stationary poplation there is so growth                    total, xrban, and rural d.eelligo  -ep-oti-ely.
stie the birth rate 00 eqsu]. to the death rate, end .1.0 tha age
strutur  resolsem constant. Ttoi. -o -hi...ed otly  fte.r fertility rates          EDUCEATION
uc-tone to the replacemeot levt of -ibt net reproduction rate, ohen                  Adiustd Enrollment Ratio0
.ea  generation of eo-   rerotoOo 1tocif ...actly.  Th. stationacy pow.                roas  ooo          oa.ol   n  fmal  - tro. total, sasic az0 feO.!,vro.
tal O, Mooeso  eimated oo the baoio of the projettd tharotteristiooto  alagsa  theepimar  lvI as percentges of  -pecsti-t prOmery
of he  opotaiosoothe year 0000, 000 tha rate of deolic of fertility                 shool-age populati...; normally oneludes children aged 6-11 Year, out
rate torPIscemet levei.                                                                  adjoted for 01ffrerft lengths of yr-ary muitationoo    r   _ountieo  -t1
Year   ttioof oolaa             israhd- The year woe  stationary poulatin                  univreral vducatio  enrollment na  oxoced 130 porent 05de00  orn  puplsa
oteeha.  een  eaced,                                                                ar   eo   rshv   o   fioa   oho sag.
Pseute.tioo Sesoity                                              Senoodary schoo~~~~l t-ttaLI. ale and teml  - c,owted so si.-00oeoot
Per00.Am.- 710-earpopotlti   par oquae (tllomtr (100 ocotaree) of                    education re.oore  at leaut fou  years of approved primary  -tosrutico:
-totl area                                                                               provides genera  ro ioaol  or techer t-ining inatrucetooo   ePup
,ee  Qo. ona. agri-ultural land - Cmnpotd an above for agricultural land                    ualty of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondeoce courses are g...erally
on1y.                                                                                    ecetded.
oPsoLLAtdoo  ARe Stru"t'r (P.-oent) - Childre  (0-1i years),  -sking-ag.                    docatiooa   nolmn    eretofooosr)-"otto at  titutto I.ti-o-
.1504x years,I, and retired (65 years and over) as peroe-tage  o  mid-yea                   ehial  nuya,o   te  program   hcht operate  nompdepeortlyora
pupultios; I~,1970, and 1977 date..                                                         departments of secondary inatitati.ps.
P.OuLlation, Grocth sate  ~perenpt) - total -Arenal cr000  rates of total aid-              Punp-tel he  recio-  ria,~        n   eodr- Total  tudeeto  drarll,od.in
yea  popiiationo  for 1950-to0, M10 -70,      1970-77.                                      prmr   n   eodr   eesdvdedy numbe.rs of teahers to to, ore
Fovuslation Grooth Rate, (pe-ent)   uha  -    -osoa grwt  ratea ofura                         spending level..
Ppoplatosos  or  1950-nO, 1900-70, and 1970_75.                                          Adult literacy rate (cen)-Literate adults (able to -sea  and  -tly) as
Cr0d. Birth Rate (per thousan) - Ana  ive births per thousand of aid-                            pertestag   of ,toa  adst populatIon aged 15 years and ovr.
year, population; 1900, 1973, and 1977 data.
brode Leath Rate (per thoosasd) - Ancnual deaths per thoo.and 00 mod-yu.r              COSI0UMPTION
oouetiono 10        97.ad 1977 data.                                                   paa.aoooge  cars kpe- thuad po aidn     "osesge   crcopise motr onro
Oroo RprouctonRate - A-fge huehor Of daughters.  wOa  1.1 bear                         se.ti.ng Ie.. than eon   -eonsW xt-oodes seo.i.Oa  har... and -olitar
io her normal reprduotive period if she eoperi.e..e presen.t age-                        vehilea.
specific fertility raesen  ossally fiv-yea,-rgaernc  ending in 1900,                   badio  Re.ivers (per thoosano  popuation) - All typos of rece--r  C or radi..
1970, and 1975.                                                                          broadcast. to gen.era~l pil  per1thotus&na of poputios; ... Woes uhluces....
jOinly plannoog -       Pdcet.,., OsMa  (tboeaoo I- .Annumb ser of                         r           -err   on  outries and io years  hie  registrstion of  -at. oeto . -on
scoeptor. of birth-ontoro   deie     sudraopo.oes.of national faully                     cffeot; data for re... t years my not be comparable sidoc n-t co-nries
planin  pror..                                                                           aboolished  iicensing.
fai Plani-   -b . User  (rg n  of ma:rried come,  I-Perentas of married              TV Receiversrne t,.thosndpt ftiOo.  - CV recivero for bronAcsut to  ene.. I
some o  obil-bearig age(15-6. year, uhosoc irth-ootroo  Sevoovo             pooprtosn    euatin roode  unltoeaedm IT renereiro  on --tri-s
to alt     i srtdmeno0 in .ae.  age group.                                               and in yearo  hen regiotratioe of TV .eto va  on vffect.
limaOaOErCiruat co  pr. thousand p          ltlon)d- Shotsthe  -vrage otireulat-o
5001' AND N110TP0101                                                                          ofdygnra looert   oeeeper  d.fie  abon -eidiin1 poiotio-
oond.  of 0000Or.o-tion Par Capita  tO*cO.71=_001 -  sdeo of per -apita                    ocooted pronrily to recordong general sets.  It io considered tohe  Sully"
annua  produot-o  of alt food coesediti-o  Produotios  --do.ue  aeed sod                 if it appears at lsent fou  tines  ..e.X.
feed end 00 on olandenr year oasi..  C-odittoo 0000  primary g.oot                     CicsAna§ttendance ocr Cdpit  00  er Y             - baed on the sundr Sf t1loo-
e..ogroane instead of suga) which are edible and -oOte.s nutrient.                   i.drn   h  yea, onldio   oisOst   tie-Scoeo0001
e..cffead telae. .rc   otded).  Aggregate produotio  of each eoontry              udt~
iibasd  n natiu...l ae-rage produce r proiC  OO. l5
Per onia  uplyo   caooa   e                      an=o.euleet) - Computed from        LJQO  FORCE
enry_oivaeti   e    o  ooP:        c  availble is Country per ..pita             Total laor P.rt  (thosad.) -                     soemoel t ci-c poreon.. i-ludico,  ro
per day.  Availbl. supplies ~oceri.. domestic production, imports less                 foos ..5 _O uaployo  hot  o-lIdiog hOOise--O, otuoateo,  t10. Sefioot,-,o
ePorts, and  h-age  on stoob.  Neo ooppllec co lde animal feed, sees,                  in v-ous -ountr-e  non Oct  -oop-rble.
quocOti .. dead on' food ProCe..ing, and Ijoe ...on distrihoios. Reqoore-                    '    'a,pfft) "-   Pm .l lasr fort  os perctege Of t-tal labor force -
ants were eatiattd by FAO based on pcoy.,Iotg ...  ore, for ooral                                  P-         t .  Lsr force  -n farain1g, forestry, hunting end
activity and health coosiderngenir.        nntl-epert-r, bcoy veIghts,                 fishing .  Pas  . eretage of t1t.0.1olabrfre
age and  -0  tiotributiona of ppsla.t-o, and alosg15 pe--t for                       rndustry  ceroest  - Lanor force o  ailnig, coostruotoon. ennfeoturoog ano
oaste at hoosehold leve.                                                                Ieleot-o y, w.te- and ga  as  Uperetage of total lahor !ococ.
?cr "aPit'  unt  ofT   E2!oteio  er    -pr da - Protein oToeeO   C per                 parti--ot-o  Rate (per__t) -111  mal. 00fml    Participatin or
capoos  sec  upplyof C od pe  usy.Oct opiyt  of food i-ie-od an             soticity rates are  ooapteo an total, na,ad female tanor forte on per-
shov-   Rqubrmeest  fer alt countroee estobiahed by USDA Proide for a                 owtages of total,  sic and female pvlatios cf all agsrseCiey
aintl Ran ll=oane of 00 gross of total proteoe Per uay and 20 gras  of                 190,5 1970, and 1975 data.  The.n are ILO00 part-opatioo: rat.. r:ef.lecting
anonl. and pol.. pr.t.i., of whioh 15 grams o.uId be anaa protein.                      age-exes tructure of the popultion, and long Itmw  trend.  A fee ewtimete-
Thea. standards are lover than thoee of 75 g:sms of total protein and                  are from na1tional s-rc.
25 grams of animal proetsi a. an avrage for the oord, proposed by tAO                Economic flepennno   Ratio -  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 000 over to
on the Third World Food Surey,                                                         the labor forte in age group of 1,5-hO  Years.
Per capita proes  suppl  fromnh.l and puls  - Prioten supply of food
derived from antol. ad                                                             INiCO to  ramsoer  ay. 
fhitd  oags 1-0) MotaiY Raep we  toua        -Aia deaths per th-ussd                erntgof privt  Iso be(1th -n cash sno 00.0) - Po-i-d. by roo.tha
onage group I-0 Fears, to  Ihrno  hsaogru;frmtdvl                                          p. 00mt, richeat 2t porcent, poorest 20 peroe-t, and poorest 4.0 perceot
oping countries date. derived from life tails..                                          of bonoesholo0.
otOITH                                                                                   POYM,T TOARZ? OPCUP
lifeZopetan   at   oth  year) -Average oumn'rof years of Itfe                   Estimated Assolute POverty 1000,- Leve  :(us  n    apia)         -ura  and rural 
remaoin  atblrho   90,197. ad 177.data.                                 -      Absolute poverty lane   leve  is thai inom  lee   ob oopa  iia
InatMraiyRate (per thouand) - Annual deaths of iofanto under done                 outrtonalty adequate dIet pluo ....etial 000-food -q-pirenento 1  n01
year of age Per t005500d live birtha.                                                     ff.rdabls.
Access to Safe CWeter (pren f  oPulation; _tota    rban, and rural -                      tEtiated Relatov   P.very Lmoon Levl(5$orcaia  - urban ed rorat 
00cof people  t-tal, urban,  n   o        0t  raoddable soessa to                    .Wural relative povery income level ii one-            ith o  acrg  per  aptta
safe eater aupply (boolodes treated ourface waters or untreted but                       personal Leer  of the  -ootry. Urban level - derive  C.os toe cural I.-t
unbtaaodmter mah -. that, from  -roected boreholen, opring.,                     woth adjuetneot for Alsoer ...t of liv-ing to urian areas.
and sanitary alto) as Percentages of their re tv  populations- in                      Estimated Poultin  010   bsIte Povety.:om    eelIcret.-sb,5,
an  rba  area a public fourta.io or otnriodyo   located oct mare tha                     ua       ecn   fnouais,ra   n   oal   n   r    nouepc
300 ntersafrom, . house mey be does idered as being withid reasonable
access of that h-.a.  In rura  areas resaonable macaoo  -old imply
that the boc.s"l.ew     or  eraa - of the bonoe.ltd do not hav  to spoon atoomic  oo So_a LIo  Dici-io
dl.Pr.portlonAte Part of the day in fetehIng the fautKiY's water 000.t ...ol ft. Aly.i. and Prj-t,otom   Dpaprteent
Augost 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX I
'Page 4
BANCLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population;          89.5 million  (July 1980)
GNP Per Capita:      US90 (FY80)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (C)       Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)
(million US5           (in constant FY75 prices)               (in current prices)
Indicator                             in current prices)
F`Y79             FT60-70   FY70-75  Fn75-80   FY60         FY70       FY75       FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Lb                    9,512.5                 4.0      -0.6        6.3    100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
Agriculture /b                             5,174.0                3.1       -1.3        4.3     59.9       56.9       63.6      51.9
Industry /b                                1,170.2                7.9       -3.2       8.9       7.7        9.6       8.6       12.5
Services 7b                                3,168.3                4.9        3.3        6.6     30.1       30.0      25.0       28.8
Consumption                                  9,187.5                4.4       -0.7        6.7     92.4       92.8      100.0     102.1
Gross investment                             1,330.0               10.9      -10.9       13.5      6.9       11.3        7.0      15.0
Exports of goods A ofs                         603.0                0.8      -11.7        4.3     10.0        8.3        3.1       7.1
Imports of goods & efs                       1,603.0                8.8      -12.0      14.4       9.3       12.5      10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                         465.0               26.5      -17.7        ...      0.9        6.1        0.9      -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75       FY79      FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                            603.0                                             100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                      217.0                                              41.9        31.4      36.0      30.1
Kanufactures                                 386.0                                              58.1        68.6      64.0      69.9
Merchandise imports                          1,603.0                                             100.0       100.0     100.0    100.0
Food                                         250.0                                              44.1       42.2       15.6      29.5
Petroleum                                    186.0                                               3.2        11.1      11.6      17.6
Nachinery 4 equipment                        382.0                                              13.8         9.6      23.8      25.8
Other                                        785.0                                              38.9        37.1      49.0      27.1
FY74        Fm75         nY76         FY77        FY78         FY79
PRICgS AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/USS)                                7.9661       8.8759      14.8521      15.4667     15.1215      15.2193
Export price index                                      104.6       132.9        108.7        117.7       136.7        168.9
Import price index'                                    156.9        215.4        195.8        189.1       180.2        214.2
Terms of trade index                                     66.7        61.7         55.5         62.2         75.8        78.9
As G MM
(at current prices)
FY73        FY75         FY77        Fn79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                      5.0          5.4          9.5        10.3
Current expenditure                                                  6.5          4.5          7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          -1.5         +0.9         +1.7        +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                  8.8          3.1          9.8        11.4
Foreign finAncing                                                    7.1          2.4          7.8         8.5
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80
OTnhR INDICATORS
GNP grovth rate (2)                                                      4.2          -0.7            5.7
G)IP per capita grovwh rate (I)                   -                       1.5         -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (2)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
Lb  At market prices; components are expresed at factor cost and will not sdd due to exclusion of net indirect taese and subsidies.
m* ot available
* not applicable
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 25-                                                  _
YA.'GLADESH
6A1.NCT or PAYM!TS . ENTCERNAL CAPtTAL An4  DEBT
(.1ilIan US0 in corrent prices)
Actual                                                proleoteds
FY74       y75      FY76       FY77      FY78       Fy79      FYBO      FY6o1    ry         rn3
8ALA.EC OF PAYMENTtS
Net -rport. of 9ood-   6  ovie.                          -565.7    -696.4   -447.4    -340.3    -786.0   -o65.0   -l610.0   -1710.0  -2057.0  -2271.0
Exports of food. 6 service6 418.6                                 502.7      507.6     610.0      643.0     819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Imports of goode 6  servIe.                             984.3    1199.1    1355.0      950.3    1429.0    1604.0      2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Net transfers                                               -          -
C.rrent .count bsl&rre                                   -565.7   -696.4   -o47.4    -340.3   -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0  -2271.0
Direct priv-t. investsnt                                    -          -         .         .         12.0      15.0        20.0      25.0      30.0       35.0
XLT lo.n  (net)                                           274.4      508.2     502.9      246.0     399.0     465.4       861.5     950.0     995.0    1145.0
Grsot. 6 grent-like flaw.                                 347.0      395.6     244.5     229.7    386.1       495.2       504.5     810.0     950.0    1100.0
other capital flo   (net)                                   2.0    -358.8      153.1    -216.1       14.0      13.6       88.0    -45.0       153.0       59.0
Change in reerve. (- * .n.resee)                          -57.F      151.3     -53.1       80.7     -25.2    -124.0       136.0     -22.0     -71.0      *50.0
Int.-ecion,l reserve  (end of period)                     115.0      266.3     213.2    293.9       268.7     393.0      257.0      279.0     350.0    400.0
R.er*es ad  onths of ieport. of nst yeanr                  1.t5       2.36      2.69      2.47       1.91      1.81        1.09      1.04      1.18       1.26
Actual
-     .Y74      FY75      nY76       FY77      FY78      FY79
GROSS DISS7RSFSSE3TS
Official grI nts                                           347.0      395.6     244.5     229.7      386.1     495.2
Cros0  dt.bur.nts of  .LT loan.                            285.1      529.1     569.3     276.1      434.4     520.8
Concesslonal                                               201.5      468.0     538.9      244.7     399.8     500.3
Bilateral                                                  82.4      305.6     357.3     117.3      237.3     226.8
IDA                                                        51.0     112.5      128.2      86.1       88.2     152.5
Other   Wtltlatevel                                        68.1      49.9       53.4      41.3       74.3     121.0
iIoe-eonceeeiooal                                           83.7       61.2      30.5      31.5       34.5      20.4
Official export credit                                      40.6      85.3      16.5       4.2        1.7       3.3
63RD                                                                                                   
Ocher -ltilateral                                           5.4        0.3       1.2       0.5        0.5       0.1
eteat.                                                     37.7       15.6      12.8      26.8       32.3      17.0
EXTERNAL DEbT
Debt o-tstanding  nd disbursed (and of period)             490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2581.8    3005.1
Officiel                                                  383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    2856.4
-  l.0                                                               54.9      54.9      54.9       54.9      54.9
t71A                                                     105.6     255.3      379.8     465.9      554.2    706.7
Other                                                    277.7      930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
;  veto                                                   107.3      118.3     104.7      116.3     139.4     148.7
U.disbursed Debt                                           590.2    1033.2      952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
SE?T SERVICI
Total debt service pyeente                                  18.0       31.0      88.3       58.3      67.4      95.4
Interest                                                    7.3       10.1      21.9      28.4       32.1     4*.1
Paym,t.    ex 1sports                                        6.3        6.2      17.4       9.6       10.5      11.6
P.5sonto a.  . CNP                                           0.2        0.3       1.3       0.9        0.9       1.2
Aversg Interest race on nw loans (X)                         3.2        2.0       1.7        1.6       1.5       1.7
Official                                                    2.9        2.0       1.6        1.5       1.4       1.6
Pri-ts                                                      4.8        2.3       7.o        6.*       6.2       6.1
Avorag. entoryty of sew lons (year.)                        25.7       35.3      1.7        0.1      37.8      34.7
Official                                                   28.3       35.8      42.2      40.8       38.1      35.1
ptricer                                                    13.4       15.2      11.3       11.0       9.5      14.8
LOLW  CROIP EXPOSIU  (%)
IBRD DOD/ tot-l WO                                                    4.0        3.         2.6       2.1        1.8
tERD 4l.bhrsc-tx/to.tl gra.e dlebtse.scts
13R1 debt s.rviceltotel debt  cr-i.e.                    -  -          -         1.8        5.6       5.0        *.0
IDA 0O0/ntetl DOD                                           21.5      18.7      21.0        22.5     21.4       23.5
10i drsborests/totel *ros  dlsburoonts                      17.8      21.2      22.3       31.1      20.3       29.2
IDA debt e.r.lce/totsl debt  mrwice                          1.1       3.2       2.4         5.2      5.6        4.6
A n   of Debt ots.tanding
at End of F379
.atcrity structure of debt outstanding (1)
,Atozitle. due  tchin 5   srs                                                      12.1
Matouritiee 4d. cthin 10 yper.                                                     32.7
Interest structure of debt tcsandiLng (1)
CEtereet doe within first  eer                                                      1.7
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                        Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                    54.9    428.28        -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.00      0.87
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.35
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      1.59
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.30      0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00     3.50
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      4.03
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.50     3.91
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.70      0.21
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                 20.00     9.02
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00    19.52
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.00     8.68
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    18.47
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00    12.96
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00     7.30
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.50     3.39
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.00     8.35



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million      _/
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                         16.00   13.76
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                         21.00   18.41
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                    10.00    7.96
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                  5.00    3.78
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.00    3.05
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.00   16.84
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                      25.00   24.96
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                    7.00    6.97
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                      6.00    5.50
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                19.00   17.58
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                       75.00    4.48
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                  10.00    9.85
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                      6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                       25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                          32.00   32.00
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
Power Distribution                     28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.00   21.77
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports             25.00    6.94
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                          25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway                            10.00   10.00 /b
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                      50.00   50.00
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pump                             37.00   37.00 /b
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Second Chittagong Water
Supply                                 20.00   20.00 /b
Total,                                                      54.9  1,326.28  510.77
of which has been repaid                                  0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,325.88
Total undisbursed                                            0      510.77  510.77
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads orig-
inally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by World
Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This
request is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B
and C (Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) is reported to have been
substantially completed, except for some minor telecommunications equipment
scheduled to arrive shortly. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1980.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
The project provides flood protection to a gross area of about 130,000
ac and irrigation, by means of low lift pumps, to about 60,000 ac. Drainage
and water control is provided by a main regulator in the south of the project
area on the S. Dakatia River and irrigation water is provided by a pumping
station to the north of the area on the same river. Both structures are comple-
ted and the project includes improved agricultural extension, equipment and
vehicles, housing and technical assistance. Cropping intensity is expected to
rise from 165% to 230%.
After a poor start, due to war, natural disasters, delays in land
acquisition, and weak administration and management, the project has been
substantially completed except for arrival of some additional maintenance
equipment, completion of about six miles of channel remaining to be improved
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-29-                    ANNEX II
Page 4
as well as 2,000 ft of borrow pit canal, held up by a land dispute. Project
benefits have been obtained over part of the area and production has increased
from 69,000 tons in 1976/77 to 97,000 tons in 1978/79 and at full development
in 1982/83 it is expected to be up to 203,000 tons. The fisheries improvement
program in the project area (financed under Credit 605-BD) is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned in FY80. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million
from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated
to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the
Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1974; Closing Date:  September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural Dev-
elopment Corporation (BADC) component; the last installment of processing
equipment will be installed for processing the current season's wheat crop;
all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recei ly agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are poor
marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multiplication.
Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and marketing
consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certification Agency
continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is currently
under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of GOB's recent
strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support intensive
seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980 and
extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions are
known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date:  September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump
units are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are in store and ready for
issue. The target for the FY80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or
44,000 acres planted.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making good progress having been behind schedule
due to initial delays in hiring project consultants. The consultants for the
irrigation portion of the project began work in September 1976, but their
effectiveness was limited by delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment
and in the assignment of local consultants to assist in the design work. This
has been resolved. After a period of good progress, project civil works have
again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with
the contractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works
have resumed at normal pace.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. Initially, despite some teething prob-
lems, the project was progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the
following weaknesses became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the
various ministries and agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization
and ineffective supervision of the project by the implementing agency, the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the
cooperative system (complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate
training of project personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the
field of rural credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with
IRDP, undertook a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire,
setting out an action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the
Government in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977.  A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amerd the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales
of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has
procured in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which have been distributed by
January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000 shallow tube-
wells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construction of work-
shops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing  Date:  June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP)
to provide adequate funds for completing remaining civil works. The Ministry
of Agriculture has prepared a draft Project Proforma (PP) for Ministry of
Planning approval.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
intensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date:  September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Construction
contracts have been awarded for Bangladesh Agricultural Institute (BARI)
research stations and Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) head-
quarters building. Procurement of building materials and equipment is in
progress. Reports from BARC Technical Working Groups (outlining research
subprojects), a National Research Plan, and a Five-Year Plan for BARI have
been produced and reviewed by IDA. A total of 16 Ph.D students have been
placed in overseas universities. The appointment of a consultant for research
monitoring has not yet been made. The unsuccessful in-country M.Sc. training
program should be redesigned.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start in 1980.



- 33 -
ANNEX It
Page 8
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This credit has only recently been declared effective. Fisheries
and engineering consultants have been engaged and are expected to commence
field operations by April 1980. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been
prepared.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Effectiveness of this credit has been delayed due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget and establishment of the joint
project fund.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 million Credit of April 4,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashugai.j Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1980, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.6 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$16.7 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been outstanding for US$2.6 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of April 30, 1980 disbursements were US$72.0 million and QAR
had been outstanding for US$1.3 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of April 30, 1980 disbursements were about US$70.5 million and
QAR had been outstanding for US$2.9 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds have been fully committed.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
This credit has only recently been declared effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 27, 1973; Closing Dr':
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of Taka funds. The
External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance informed the
Resident Mission that the allocation of the required funds (approx. 40 million
Taka) would be released in March 1980. In such case, the project could be
substantially completed by the current closing date, December 31, 1980. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Civil works associated with the tech-
nical education component, although 30 months behind schedule are virtually
complete and the polytechnics are now operating. About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. Project costs (in
dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.
Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works which until the end of 1978 was about
three months ahead of schedule had slowed down in 1979 due to shortage of
local funds. However Funds have now been made available and completion is
still expected within the Credit Closing Date. Training of teachers for the
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by transfer
of instructors to the extension staff due to downgrading of salaries.
Little progress has been made on the recruitment of technical assistance
experts, the development of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of
extension staff. The Bank is reviewing the project to determine the relevance
of the technical assistance component, since it appears that the studies of
Agricultural Extension Service (AES) seem to be no longer necessary after the
Training and Visit Sytem (TNV) of extension has been established.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project has recently been declared effective after having met the
four conditions of effectiveness. The Project Implementation Unit manager and
architect are in post. All sites for project buildings have been made available.
The equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA appro-
val. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training Center
(TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have been
concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
has improved; and the internal reorganization of the Population Control and
Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by the management study,
is underway. This reorganization will not be effective in improving program
implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill its large number of
vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions; and (b) simplify the
administrative, financial and recruitment procedures. Actions have been
assured by the Government on both counts. A program has been started for the
retraining of field workers which should improve their performance. While
the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare Centers, built
through community participation, has been encouraging, the progress on other
buildings in the project has been slower than expected. Due to the slow pace
of construction, disbursement of the credit has also shown less than expected
improvements.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The closing date of the credit has been extended to June 30, 1980,
by which time all works will be completed and the Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed. Reinstatement of shoulders on the Feni Bypass, opened to
public traffic on July 1, 1979, is virtually complete and repair of isolated
pavement failures was to be completed by the end of February 1980. Finishing
works on the RHD Headquarters building are nearing completion and the building
is largely occupied. The revised final report on the Surma River crossing
is still awaited. The arbitrators appointed to deal with the contractor's
claims on the Sitalakhya Bridge were unable to reach agreement and the matter
has now been referred to the umpire. No further problems are anticipated with
the project.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$8.25 million (97% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
The Borrower has made good progress in calling equipment tenders and
in inviting proposals from approved short-listed consultants. Appointment of
consultants and ECNEC approval of the project proforma are conditions of
Credit effectiveness.  Credit Agreement Effectiveness has been extended from
March 20, to June 30, 1980. No major problems are foreseen at this time.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipmwent factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have decided on the technique to be adopted
for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is
to be made in 1980 for delivery by mid-1982. The rate of physical installa-
tions during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from the
previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Govern-
ment has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively
and should be made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satisfactory
accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the beneficiary,
but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular in considera-
tion of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty-two subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 13 subprojects
totaling about $4.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
expected to be committed within the next few months. The project is pro-
gressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
- 40 -                        Page I
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 years.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
FA0/IDA/GOB
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
December 1977
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
March 1978
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
October 1979
(f) Completion of negotiations:
May 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
September/October 1980
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
A.   Ci)  Government would ensure that the official transfer
period for lands planted under the project would be
extended by GOB to 20 years to allow the completion
of the recommended mangrove rotation cycle and that
plantations would be adequately maintained (para-
graph 52).



- 41 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii)  Government would, by December 31, 1980, forward
to IDA a draft research program for the Plantation
Trial Unit (paragraph 58).
(iii)  Government would submit a work program for moni-
toring and control of land accretion and mangrove
plantations through remote sensing techniques and
as necessary aerial photography by December 31,
1980 (paragraph 61).
B.   Conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(i)  Government would have approved the Project Proforma
(paragraph 64).
(ii) Government would have established the Plantation
Trial Unit (paragraph 58).



