Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2840-BD
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
May 13, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The rate below has been used throughout this report
except where otherwise stated.
US$1             =   Taka 16.0
Taka 1               US$0.062
Taka 1 million       US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square mile                -   640 acres (259 hectares)
1 acre                       -   0.405 hectare (ha)  3
1 cubic foot (cu ft)         =   0.028 cubic meter (m )
1 cubic meter (m )           =   35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 maund (md)                 =   82.29 lbs (37.34 kg)
1 metric ton                 =   26.8 maunds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BARC     -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BCIC     -   Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BFIDC    -   Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation
BIWTC    -   Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BLP      -   Bangladesh Landsat Program
BMR      -   Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation (of mills)
BWDB     -   Bangladesh Water Development Board
CIDA     -   Canadian International Development Agency
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization
FD       -   Forestry Department
FRI      -   Forest Research Institute, Chittagong
FRTC     -   Forest Rangers Training College, Sylhet
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB      -   Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association (of the World Bank)
KNM      -   Khulna Newsprint Mill
KPM      -   Karnaphuli Paper Mill
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MAF      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MLALR    -   Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform
MM       -   Man Month
PP       -   Project Proforma
PTU      -   Plantation Trial Unit
RMB      -   World Bank Resident Mission Bangladesh
SIDA     -   Swedish International Development Agency
TA       -   Technical Assistance
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
(in order of rank)
CCF   -   Chief Conservator of Forests
DCCF  -   Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests
ACCF  -   Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests
CF    -   Conservator of Forests
DCF   -   Deputy Conservator of Forests
DFO   -   Divisional Field Officer (DCF rank)
ACF   -   Assistant Conservator of Forests
RFO   -   Range Forest Officer (Ranger)
BANGLADESH FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ............................................                  1
II.  THE FORESTRY SECTOR ......................................                  1
Forest Resources and Wood Supply ... .....................                1
Consumption of Forest Products ..........................                 2
Forestry Institutions and Industries .....................                3
Forest Policy ...........................................                 4
External Assistance .....................................                 5
Constraints to Development ..............................                 6
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ........................................                 6
Physical Environment ....................................                 6
Institutions ............................................                 8
IV.   THE COASTAL AFFORESTATION PROGRAM .......................                  9
Background ..............................................                 9
Plantation Establishment ................................                10
Plantation Management ...................................                11
Plantation Thinning .....................................                11
Tree Harvesting and Land Disposition ....................                11
Land Acquisition ........................................                11
Program Organization ....................................                12
Budgetary Constraints ...................................                13
V. THE PROJECT .13
Project Formulation .13
Detailed Features:  Plantation Establishment .14
Management of Immature Plantings .14
Construction of Staff Housing and Offices .14
Boats, Vehicles and Equipment .15
Plantation Trial Unit .17
Audio Visual Equipment .19
Training .20
Monitoring .20
Implementation Schedule .21
This report is based on findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Bangladesh in
October/November 1979 comprising Messrs. von Ruemker, Baykal, Voljc (IDA),
Ewing (consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............................              22
Cost Estimates ..........................................             22
Financing ...............................................             23
Procurement .............................................             24
Disbursement ............................................              25
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit ...........................             26
VII.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................               26
Project Organization ....................................              26
Staffing Requirements ...................................             27
VIII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..........................               28
Production Forecasts ....................................             28
Markets for Mangrove Wood ...............................             29
Price Assumptions .......................................             33
IX.   BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....           ..........   34
Benefits ................................................             34
Economic Analysis .......................................              36
Impact on Government Budget .............................             37
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks ..........................             38
X.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................              40
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates and Disbursement Schedule
2. Financial Analysis
3. Economic Analysis
4. Project Implementation Schedule
5. Growth Model for Mangroves
6. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
TABLE NO.
6.1 Summary of Cost Estimates
6.2 Financing
7.1 Field Staff Requirements
8.1 Production Forecasts
8.2 Fuelwood Consumption in Selected South Asian Countries
8.3 Breakdown of Current Paper Consumption by Grades
8.4 Projection of Wood Requirements
8.5 Stumpage Price Assumptions
9.1 Economic Costs and Benefits
9.2 Sensitivity Tests on ERR and Present Values
MAP - 14864



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1977 an FAO/UNDP mission, in cooperation with GOB staff, reviewed
the Bangladesh Forcstry Sector and prepared a report. After further discus-
sions between GOB and IDA in December 1977 and a field visit to existing Man-
grove plantations by RMB staff in March 1978, an expansion of ongoing planting
activities in the coastal areas was identified as the most suitable component
of GOB's forestry program for Bank/IDA assistance.
1.02      An FAO/CY mission then visited Bangladesh in late 1978 and produced
a reconuaissance report (No. 10/79 BAN12) outlining a mangrove afforestation
projecL. This was followed up by an FAO/CP preparation mission which visited
Barigladech in June/July 1979 and submitted their final report No. 44/79 BAN16
iin Scptcuwbei 1979. The SAR is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
cor,sisting of Messrs. A. von Ruemker, 0. Baykal, M. Voljc (IDA), and A. Ewing
(consultant), who visited Bangladesh in October/November 1979.
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Forest Resources and Wood Supply
2.01      For 3979 Bangladesh's population and annual population growth have
been estimated at 87.0 million and 2.7% respectively. 1/ The total land area
of Bangladesh covers 56,000 square miles and the population density of 1,550
per square wile is amongst the highest in the world.  Per capita GNP in 1978/79
was still below US$100.
2.02      Iu 1977/78 agriculture accounted for 57% of GDP and 80% of export
earnirggs while employing about 78% of the total labor force. Forestry, one
of the .ub ssectors of agriculture, has a 2% share in GDP and employs less than
2% of t.c work force. Although the Forestry Sector's quantified contribution
to GDP is su-all, forests play a vital role in protecting the environment and
soluplying domestic energy and construction requirements.
2.03      The total cultivable area of Bangladesh is about 22.0 million acres,
and alel of it is under cultivation. Demand and hence pressure on land is
hiiglh. rhe forest estate covers about 6.2 million acres and can be classified
into three groups:
1/   Source:  Population and Human Resource Division of World Bank.



- 2 -
(a) State-owned forest reserves: estimated area is about
3.3 million acres, of which 1.4 million acres are
mangroves, 0.3 million acres are central lowland
forests, and 1.6 million acres are hill forests;
(b) Unclassified forests: estimated area is about 2.2
million acres; and
(c) Private woodlots: estimated area is about 0.7 million
acres.
2.04      According to FAO, 1/ the standing volume of commercially usable
timber, mostly in forest reserves, is about 3,530 million cu ft. Considering
the size of forest reserves and the rate of uncontrolled utilization of
forests as well as shifting cultivation in hill and "Sal" forests, 2/ this
estimate appears high, corresponding to an average standing volume of 1,100
cu ft/acre. Experience gained from other countries indicates that in tropical
forests commercially usable timber ranges from 215 to 430 cu ft/acre.
2.05      Reserve forests and private woodlots are the main sources of wood
supply. Unclassified forests have been degraded due to shifting cultivation
practices and severe illicit fellings. In 1976/77 annual wood production
was estimated at 56 million cu ft, of which 31 million cu ft consisted of
fuelwood, indicating a very low level of wood consumption both as industrial
and fuelwood in Bangladesh.
Consumption of Forest Products
2.06      In per capita terms, Bangladesh uses about 0.3 cu ft (r) industrial
wood and about 0.4 cu ft fuelwood. 3/ In the case of industrial wood this
figure may be accepted as a reasonable estimate due to low per capita income
and simple housing construction, based predominantly on bamboo. But in the
case of fuelwood, an energy survey conducted in Bangladesh in 1976 indicated
a total domestic energy consumption of about 0.7 million kcal per capita which
is equivalent to about 10 cu ft/annum of fuelwood. The difference between
total home energy consumption and fuelwood use demonstrates that there is
considerable use of other types of energy sources, mainly agricultural resi-
dues and cow-dung, but also kerosene, gas and electricity (para 8.06).
2.07      Production and consumption of paper products has risen steadily over
the past several years, but with an annual consumption of 1.3 lb. per capita in
1978/79, paper usage in Bangladesh is still at one of the lowest levels in
1/   1977 GOB/FAO/UNDP working paper.
2/   Sal (Shorea robusta).
3/   Per capita fuelwood consumption in neighboring countries in cu ft:
Afghanistan - 15, Burma - 23, India - 7, Nepal - 24, Pakistan - 7, Sri
Lanka - 11.



- 3 -
the world and the region. 1/ However, during the same period net exports
of paper amounted to 13,000 m tons or about 20% of production.
2.08      Also in 1978/79 production of hardboard and particleboard was 19.8
and 3.3 million sq. ft. respectively, and production of sawnwood was esti-
mated at 10.0 million cu ft. Since imports and exports of these products
were negligible, these figures would also represent consumption. Details on
demand for wood products are given in Chapter VIII.
Forestry Institutions and Industries
2.09      The Forest Department (FD) is part of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests (MAF). It is headed by a Chief Conservator of Forest, assisted by
a Deputy Chief Conservator (DCCF) responsible for Planning, and by three
Assistant Chief Conservators (ACCF), responsible for General Administration,
Training and Posting, and again Planning. This headquarters staff directs
eight Circles which have executive functions and are shown below:
(a) Circles with national and functional responsibilities
headed by officers of DCCF rank:
Development & Training Circle (Dacca)
Extension Circle (Dacca)
Wild Life Circle (Dacca)
Forest Research Institute (Chittagong)
Forest Training & Development Center (Kaptai)
(b) Circles with territorial and administrative responsibilities,
also called management circles, and headed by officers of
Conservator of Forest (CF) rank:
Eastern Circle (Chittagong)
Central & Northern Circle (Rajshahi)
Coastal Plantation Circle (Khulna)
2.10      DCCF's or CF's in charge of Circles are assisted by deputies of
Deputy Conservator (DCF) rank. They are responsible for a number of Divisional
Forest Officers (DFO's), also of DCF rank. Forest Divisions are normally
synonymous with an administrative district. Depending on the size of Forest
Divisions, the DFO's are assisted by one or more Assistant Conservators (ACF),
and are responsible for a number of Forest Range Officers who in turn super-
vise Deputy Rangers/Foresters and Forest Guards working within their forest
range.
2.11      As of June 1979, the total number of established posts in the Depart-
ment for professional, technical and vocational staff was 2,872 of which 2,859
were filled. Total permanent staff, including administrative, clerical and
other support staff exceeded 6,000. In addition the Department employs a labor
1/   India 4.0 lb/capita, Pakistan 3.3 lb/capita.



- 4 -
force of 500,000 in forestry operations. The budget provision for the Depart-
ment for FY79/80 is Taka 162 million (US$10 million).
2.12      In 1960 the government-owned Bangladesh Forest Industries Development
Corporation (BFIDC) was formed to initiate the use of mechanized extraction
methods in inaccessible hill forest areas and to develop wood processing
industries. In 1972 BFIDC's responsibilities for the development of paper and
board industries, including the extraction of their raw materials, was trans-
ferred to a Paper and Board Corporation, which, in 1976, became the Paper and
Board Section of the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), also
government owned.
2.13      Following the inauguration of a School of Forestry at the University
of Chittagong in 1977, Bangladesh now has facilities to train all categories
of forest staff within the country (para 5.30). The Forest Rangers Training
College at Chittagong and the Forest Institute Sylhet are responsible for
training forest rangers and forest guards, respectively.
2.14      The Forest Research Institute (FRI) at Chittagong was established
in 1955. It originally restricted its activities to research in forest pro-
ducts but since 1965 has extended them into silviculture and management.
Many of FRI's programs, however, are not yet fully operational, and published
research data on silviculture and management are few (para 5.23).
Forest: Policy
2.15      A draft national forest policy for Bangladesh is presently under
consideration by the Government and is expected to be incorporated into the
next Five-Year Plan without significant modification.  Its principal objectives
are su1imarized below:
(i)  Existing forests:  All forest areas within the country
will be conserved and ihkpioved by scientific management.
Existing Governmernt forest will be reserved in per-
petuity for forestry purposes.
(ii) Afforestation and reafforestation: Forest plantations
will be expanded in new coastal land formations, in
depleted unclassified state forest in the hills, and in
suitable khas 1/ land. Farm forestry and large-scale
tree planting by the public will be encouraged and tech-
nical advice provided to those who require it.
(iii) Extraction and utilization: Rates of extraction of
forest produce will be determined by good management,
the requirements of the people and the needs of industry.
Forest utilization will take account of recent tech-
nological advances.
1/   State-owned land.



(iv) Forest service training and research: The forest
service will be constituted as a separate administra-
tive unit of Government. All staff must be adequately
trained; training and research will accord with the
scientific, technical and administrative needs of
Bangladesh Forestry.
(v)  Legislation:  Forest legislation will be revised
regularly to ensure that it is an effective instru-
ment for the implementation of policy.
(vi) Nature conservation: Effective measures will be
taken for conservation of the natural environment
and the nation's wildlife resources. The re-
creational potential of the forest will be fully
utilized.
(vii) Public awareness: Public education programs will
be initiated through the mass media and schools,
to inculcate awareness and support for forestry
and nature conservation.
External Assistance
2.16      Externally aided projects to the forestry sector are listed below:
(a)  SIDA - pulpwood plantation project since 1974/75; Chittagong
Hill Tracts.
(b)  SIDA - Road Development and Bamboo Extraction Project since
1976/77; Chittagong Hill Tracts.
(c)  SIDA - Forest Development and Training Center at Kaptai,
Chittagong Hill Tracts, since 1976/77.
(d)  SIDA - Rehabilitation of Karnaphuli Paper Mills, since
1978/79.
(e)  CIDA - Rehabilitation of Khulna Newsprint Mills, under
preparation.
(f)  AUSTRALIA - Chittagong Hills Road Construction Project.
(g)  ODM-UK - Chittagong University, Assistance to School of
Forestry.
(h)  UNDP/FAO - Forest Research Institute Support Project, since
1976. Second phase to commence in 1980 (under discussion).
(i)  UNDP/FAO - Forestry Supply and Demand Survey, since February
1979.



- 6 -
(j) UNDP/FAO - Village Forest Inventory Survey, since August 1979.
(k) ADB - Chittagong Hill Tracts Rural Development Project, to
begin 1979/80.
2.17      Of the externally aided projects, four are directed toward -fforiestry
development in the hill tracts, three are-directed-towards data collection and
research, two are directed towards training, and two are directed towards
forests industry rehabilitation. The proposed Coastal Afforestation Project
is consistent with the policy objectives of the draft forest policy and does
so at minimum opportunity cost in terms of land resources.
Constraints to Development
2.18      Several studies were undertaken in the past to explore the devel-
opment potential of the forestry sector (by SIDA in 1976, and by FAO/UNDP
in cooperation with GOB in 1977). These studies identified as main problems:
(a)  An inadequate resource base relative to demand for forest
products;
(b)  Population pressure on scarce land resources and difficulties
in securing land for forests; and
(c)  Lack of a data base for successful planning.
2.19      Also there have been some weaknesses in FD.  For example, FD head-
quarters is limited to a small group of senior administrators who lack support
from a strong planning unit within the department and thus lacks the capacity
to plan, implement and monitor sector-wide development programs. Technical
assistance to deal with this situation is being explored with bilateral and
multilateral agencies. In the interim, the project proposed in this report
has been designed with priorities consistent with the existing capacities
of the Coastal Circle's field staff, which has successfully demonstrated its
ability to carry out the afforestation of coastal areas.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Physical Environment
3.01      The project area comprises chars (mud flats) suitable for mangrove
afforestation which are constantly being formed in all parts of the Ganges,
Brahmaputra and Meghna deltas which form the coastal areas of Barisal,
Patuakhali, Noakhali and Chittagong districts. The project area is shown in
Map 1. It is a low-lying flat alluvial area intersected by major tidal river
channels, often five and in places fifteen miles wide, with an intricate
network of smaller channels. Sediment is continuously being deposited in the
channels and along the coast to form char lands.



- 7 -
3.02      The silt load carried by the three great rivers is greater than
that of any other river system in the world. As the silt-laden waters enter
the estuaries, a brackish water interface is formed, slowing the flow of
the streams and causing silt to be deposited along channel banks and on mud
islands in the estuary. At some points deposition is only temporary, because
of changing k.ter currents. At others it continues and the emerging mud flat
is colonised by pioneer grasses, particularly dhansi grass (Oryza coarctata).
The pioneer plants increase stability and silt deposition. In the undisturbed
state the land surface rises, the periods of inundation shorten and soil
salinity declines as the effect of rain water leaching increases. In this
less severe environment, the range of plant species broadens and eventually
the mud flat becomes part of the main alluvial plain.
3.03      In Bangladesh the demand for land often leads to the chars being
used for grazing as soon as they have been colonised by suitable grasses.
Heavy grazing of char lands can lead to a reversal of the succession to stable
land by removing vegetation and by compacting the soil, causing an increase
in sheet erosion.
3.04      For convenience of discussion, lands in the project area can be
divided roughly into three categories: (1) low chars which are subject to
daily flooding, (2) high chars which are subject to periodic flooding, and
(3) land which has been bunded to protect it from flooding. Most of the
protected land is being used for agriculture. High chars support a variety
of grasses suitable for livestock grazing. Low chars are not generally suit-
able for grating.
3.05      The climate is monsoonal with rainfall concentrated in the months
May-October, peaking during June and July. Mean annual totals vary from
60 inches (1,500 mm) in the west at Islamkati to 146 inches (3,650 mm) in the
east at Cox's Bazaar.  Daily temperatures vary from 10 0-130C in January
to 320-350C in April. Relative humidity rarely falls below 75%.
3.06      Hydrology.  River flows vary greatly with the season, the peak
occuring during July-September.  The mean annual dischar§e of the Ganges and
Brahmaputra through the Meghna is approximately 31,000 m /sec, second only
to that of the Amazon, but silt loads exceed those of any other river system
in the world. Tidal levels vary considerably in the delta area, and high/low
water range variability between different locations depends on the interaction
between tidal range and river discharge. The mean tidal range reaches 4.1 m
at Sandwip and decreases upstream to 0.9 m at Noakhali. Due to this high
tidal range and a comparatively high wave energy during the summer monsoon,
the extension of the delta front is less rapid than in some other major deltas.
3.07      Salinity in the coastal area is primarily controlled by seasonal
river discharge. Nevertheless, differences in salinity exist between coastal
areas throughout the year. In the Sundarbans, low-salinity water penetrates
to the inland boundary of the mangroves throughout the year, whereas in the
Cox's Bazaar area salinity levels remain high year-round. These two areas
represent the extremes, while other areas of the estuary exhibit greater
inter-seasonal variation in salinity.



3.08      Population and Land Use.  About 17 million people live in the
hinterland coastal area, deriving their livelihood mainly from agriculture.
The area normally affected by cyclonic storms, some 4,000 square miles,
supports one major crop of transplanted aman 1/ paddy as well as some boro 2/
grown under irrigation, together with a range of minor vegetable and pulse
crops. Rainfall is usually sufficient to produce good aman crops without
irrigation on the rich flat clays and silty loams. No accurate data are
available on farm sizes and tenancy in the area, but farms are larger than
in other areas of the country, and absentee ownership is prevalent. It is
estimated that more than 90% of those employed in agriculture are landless
laborers and sharecroppers. From areas near the coast, larger landowners
send labor and cattle by boat to established char lands in May and remove
them in November/ December.
3.09      Land communications are poorly developed throughout the area, being
at their best in Chittagong district, and South Hatia, Sandwip, and Bhola
islands. Some communication between offshore islands and the mainland is
maintained by country boat and ferry services. Many of the islands remain
cut off from the mainland for most of the year.
Institutions
3.10      In addition to the Forestry Department, the principal Government
agencies operating in the project area are described below:
3.11      Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) has a program to protect,
reclaim and settle newly-formed char land. To date BWDB estimates that some
370 sq. miles (237,000 acres) have been reclaimed in this manner. On a pilot
basis some 3,500 acres of this land are to be settled in seven villages of
200 families each, each farm being 2.5 acres.
3.12      Cyclone Reconstruction Board.  This Board oversees various projects
designed to protect against surges of cyclones and to rehabilitate infra-
structure destroyed or damaged by cyclones. Board activities include construc-
tion of cyclone shelters, primary and feeder roads, cyclone warning systems
and telecommunications, and assistance to fisheries development. IDA Credit
339-BD provided US$25 million to support the Board in its activities in
the wake of the disastrous cyclone of 1970.
3.13      Offshore Island Development Board.  The OIDB was set up as a statu-
tory board in 1977 under the Commissioner of the Khulna Division. The board
has a proposed program of some 70 projects to provide social amenities and
small scale infrastructure in the outer islands at a total estimated cost of
Taka 264,000.
1/   Aman:  Paddy broadcast or transplanted shortly before or during the
monsoon, and harvested in November/December.
2/   Boro:  Paddy planted during the dry season with irrigation from December-
March and harvested during April-June.



- 9 -
3.14      District Administration.  The administration of the respective
districts is the same as elsewhere in Bangladesh; they are headed by a Deputy
Commissioner with staff responsible for land and taxation, justice, transport
and records, district development, and the police. Within the district
administration there is an Additional Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) who is
responsible for gazetting land ownership.
IV. THE COASTAL AFFORESTATION PROGRAM
Background
4.01      The coastal areas of Bangladesh suffer almost annually from severe
cyclone damage. Available cyclone recordings for the area begin as early as
1793. From 1960 to 1970 alone, an estimated 300,000 people perished in
storms and tidal waves.
4.02      In order to better protect life in coastal areas from cyclones and
tidal surges, FD began, in 1966, a program of planting mangroves outside the
protective coastal embankments developed by the Bangladesh Water Development
Board (para 3.11). The program was based on evidence that the Sundarbans
natural mangrove forest provides some protection from wind and waves for the
western coastal areas, and thus the expectation that the planting of belts of
mangroves would give a worthwhile degree of protection to other coastal areas.
4.03      As the coastal afforestation program proceeded, it became apparent
that the plantations contributed to the acceleration of the land accretion
process and to the stabilization of the char lands, with the ultimate poten-
tial of providing land sufficiently stabilized to be used for agricultural
purposes.
4.04      GOB's positive experience with the mangrove plantations resulted in
the setting of additional objectives for coastal afforestation, these include:
(a) Conservation and stabilization of newly accreted land and
acceleration of further accretions, with the ultimate
objective of transforming a large part of this area to
agricultural land;
(b) Production of timber for fuelwood and industrial use; and
(c) Creation of employment opportunities in remote rural areas.
4.05      FD began its afforestation program in 1966 with annual plantings of
about 800 acres. The program, which covers newly accreted land in the coastal
areas of Patuakhali, Barisal, Noakhali, and Chittagong districts, was accele-
rated in 1974, and as of June 1979 a total of 63,000 acres had been planted
under mangroves. FD's planting target for FY79/80 has been set at 15,000 acres
and implementation is well under way. Complementing the program, BWDB through
its Dutch assisted Land Reclamation Project, and the Bangladesh Landsat Program



- 10 -
(BLP) have begun to collect information on the dynamics of land accretion and
erosion in the lower Meghna delta and along the northeastern shore of the Bay
of Bengal (para 4.15).
4.06      The ongoing Bangladesh mangrove afforestation program is unique.
Nowhere else have mangrove plantations been established on anything like the
same scale. By the end of FY79/80 about 80,000 acres will have been planted,
most of them growing satisfactorily. No other tree or field crop is suitable
for cultivation under the saline conditions experienced in the plantation
areas.
Plantation Establishment
4.07      Selection of planting sites is carried out by individual field
officers. Foresters look for evidence of adequate sedimentation and some
degree of land stability. The latter is usually indicated by the occurrence
of dhansi grass (Oryza coarctata). The mangrove species are then selected
according to frequency of inundations and salinity. To date, Keora has been
planted on low char lands in areas of low salinity. Baen, Kakra and Gewa have
been planted on high char lands, and Baen has been planted on low char lands
in the Cox's Bazaar area because of the high salinity. Field observations
indicate that only plantations subjected to frequent inundations maintain a
satisfactory growth rate, while species planted on high char lands are showing
signs of stagnation. FD has therefore decided that, in the future, mangrove
plantations will only be established on low char lands, with Keora being
planted in low salinity areas and Baen in higher salinity areas.
4.08      Baen plantations are established by direct sowing; all other planta-
tions require seedlings which are raised in forest nurseries. Nurseries are
temporarily installed near the planting sites, and seedlings are retained in
the nursery for about nine months. Each ranger is responsible for the col-
lection of fruit for seed extraction from the natural mangrove forests, mainly
from the Sundarbans, and to a lesser extent from Chakaria near Cox's Bazaar,
Chittagong District.
4.09      Planting operations are spread from May to October to reduce over-
head costs, but most planting takes place during July and August when results
are best due to heavy rains which decrease salinity at the planting sites.
Prior to planting, the site is surveyed and planting lines are marked to
assure a 4' x 4' spacing. Normally, no soil preparation is required, but
where dhansi grass is well established, it is cleared from around the planting
holes.
4.10      Per acre cost of plantation establishment, including nursery cost
and "beating up" (filling vacancies) in year 2, amounts to Taka 430 for Keora
and Taka 220 for Baen. These estimates are based on an initial plant popula-
tion of 2,700 per acre, and another 300 seedlings per acre for replanting
in year 2. Labor requirements to establish Keora and Baen plantations are
30 and 15 man-days per acre respectively, and account for more than 80% of
direct planting costs. No difficulties are encountered in hiring casual
laborers from May-October for plantation establishment.



Plantation Management
4.11      Except for "beating up" 1/ operations, most of which become neces-
sary when seedlings are washed away by wave action during the first 2-3 years,
and for some chemical protection against leaf defoliators and shoot boring
insects, established mangrove plantations need little technical maintenance.
However, they require close supervision and protection to prevent tree theft
and damage by uncontrolled grazing of cattle.
Plantation Thinning
4.12      Under sound plantation management practice, mangrove plantations are
subjected to a thorough thinning about nine years after establishment. About
two-thirds of the tree population is cut to allow remaining trees to develop
higher quality wood. An initial 1,000 cu ft/acre of fuelwood is obtained from
this exercise; 80% of the fuelwood is made available free of charge to neighbor-
ing villagers and the remaining 20% is marketed by FD. The cost of thinning
operations, including felling, extraction, and stacking, is estimated at Taka
180/acre.
Tree Harvesting and Land Disposition
4.13      It is estimated that a reasonable rotation period for mangroves
would be 15-20 years, after which the trees can be harvested for saw timber,
pulpwood and/or fuelwood. Because the program was begun only in 1966, the
earliest plantations are only now beginning to approach the optimal age for
harvesting.
4.14      Field observations indicate that land under mangrove plantations
would require at least 20 years to become sufficiently stabilized and enriched
to allow its agricultural use. After harvesting the mangrove, GOB plans to
distribute the newly-stabilized land to landless laborers experienced in agri-
culture. GOB intends that the suitability of the land for agricultural use
be established by a technical commission, to be set up prior to the expiration
of FD's right to the land under plantations, and including representatives of
MAF, the Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform (MLALR), and the
Planning Commission.
Land Acquisition
4.15      In 1976, BLP estimated, on the basis of satellite imagery, that some
1.23 million acres of accreted land or land in the process of formation existed
in the Bay of Bengal and the estuaries of the main rivers.
4.16      Following a decision of the Council of Advisers to the President,
MLALR, by a notification dated August 13, 1976, transferred this area of 1.23
million acres to FD "without any encumbrance for 10 years for afforestation,
so that the lands are stabilized, concentrated, and protected, and thus made
1/   Filling-in of vacancies.



- 12 -
fit for cultivation." Subsequently the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
(MAF) gazetted the area as Reserved Forest. Since mangrove need up to 20
years to reach maturity an assurance was obtained from GOB that the period
of transfer of the land to FD would be lengthened to cover the full rotation
cycle of plantations established under the project (para 5.05).
Program Organization
4.17      The coastal afforestation program is managed by the Conservator
Coastal Plantation Circle (CCPC) stationed at Khulna who is directly responsi-
ble to the Chief Conservator of Forests, Dacca. It is executed by four DFO's
in the districts of Pathuakhali, Barisal, Boakhali, and Chittagong. There is
a fifth division under the CF Khulna that is concerned with the management of
the Sundarbans mangrove forest. However, this division is not involved in
coastal afforestation.
4.18      Each division is divided into a number of ranges which are headed
by Range Forest Officers (Rangers). Ranges are field units which were formed
to facilitate administration and operations within a division. The number of
ranges per forest division as of June 1979 is listed below:
Pathuakhali:      5        Noakhali:       7
Barisal     :     5        Chittagong:     a
By November 1979, a number of additional rangers had been posted to CCPC to
enable the formation of new ranges in 1980.
4.19      Each range is subdivided into a number of afforestation centers
(beats), each in the charge of a deputy ranger or forester. The centers are
the locations from which afforestation takes place and their number per range
averages about four. A forester is normally assisted by several forest guards,
who protect plantation areas and assist in supervision of labor, and one or two
plantation malis who are permanent staff and serve as foremen in labor gangs
and in supervising nursery work. Headquarters, through the DFO's, sets annual
planting targets for each range which is regarded suitable for new plantations.
Rangers are then advanced funds on a monthly basis to enable them to pay for
transport, seeds, and labor without referring back to their respective DFO's.
This procedure has worked well in the past and would be continued under the
project.
4.20      Ancillary staff at headquarters and in the divisions comprise sur-
veyors and draftsmen, administrative and secretarial staff, boat crews and
orderlies. There is no permanent forest labor force. Casual laborers,
usually in gangs of 25 and headed by their own foremen, are recruited from
villages in the vicinity of plantation sites. In most instances boat trans-
port is required to get them to their work, and rough weather conditions make
this frequently a hazardous operation. Labor gangs bring their own food sup-
plies and are usually paid weekly by the respective foresters. Although plant-
ing operations take place from May to October and coincide partly with plant-
ing of the Aman (rice) crop, FD has in the past experienced no difficulties



- 13 -
in meeting its labor requirements. In 1978/79, coastal afforestation in four
divisions employed some 370,000 mandays of casual labor.
Budgetary Constraints
4.22      The ongoing planting program has stretched FD's exi _ing resources
in manpower, housing, and transport. Cuts in approved budget allocations com-
bined with accelerating inflation have kept the building program as well as
maintenance and replacement of the existing transport fleet in the Coastal
Plantation Circle far behind schedule. Additional resources are badly needed
to avoid neglect of existing plantations and to allow FD to meet its current
targets for the establishment of new plantations. The proposed project would
provide the resources needed to develop new plantations and to manage new
and existing plantations.
V. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
5.01      The project would finance a five-year time slice of the Coastal
Afforestation Program. More specifically, the project would finance:
(a)  Establishment of 100,000 acres of new mangrove plantations;
(b)  Management of some 80,000 acres of existing plantations;
(c)  Construction of 370 permanent and semi-permanent staff
quarters;
(d)  Provision of 100 boats (4-launches for supervisory staff,
1 boat equipped as a seed-carrier, 25 motorized work boats,
and 70 non-motorized country boats) required for planting
operations and supervision;
(e)  Provision of 6 four-wheel drive vehicles, 2 minibuses, 7
motorcycles, 60 bicycles, and 11 wireless sets;
(f)  Establishment of a Plantation Trial Unit (PTU), including
provision of an office-cum-laboratory at Khulna;
(g)  Provision of audio-visual equipment and materials;
(h)  Strengthening of forestry training institutions through
provision of a dormitory building, instructor's quarters,
transport and teaching aids; and
(i)  Provision of funds for utilizing the existing remote sensing
program, including technical assistance, equipment rentals,
materials and the purchase and processing of landsat tapes.



- 14 -
Detailed Features: Plantation Establishment
5.02      Annual planting targets (in acres) would be set as follows:
Year 1 (1980/81)   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
15,000          15,000   20,000   25,000   25,000  100,000
The phasing is based on (i) FD's present performance, (ii) the present staff-
ing level of the coastal plantation circle and reasonable estimates as to how
fast it could be expanded, (iii) the fact that additional housing and transport
would not be available before year 2.
5.03      No substantial change is suggested to the present system of planta-
tion establishment, although existing techniques will be examined under the
applied research program, and changes may be proposed and adopted during the
project implementation period. About 80% of the plantings would be Keora
(Sonneratia apetala), 1/ and the balance would be Baen (Avicennia officinalia)
(20%) with some other species. Baen would be planted in high-salinity areas.
5.04      Plantations would only be established on low char land which GOB,
through the Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform (MLALR), officially
transferred to FD for a period of ten years as published in the Bangladesh
Gazette No. 14/1977, dated April 1, 1977 (para 4.16).
5.05      The recommended rotation period for mangrove plantations is 15-20
years. The official transfer period of char lands to FD would therefore
appear to be too short. An assurance was obtained from GOB that the official
transfer period would be lengthened to cover the full rotation cycle of plan-
tations established under the project and that plantations would be adequately
managed until maturity.
Maintenance of Immature Plantings
5.06      During its five year implementation period the project would finance
the management of newly planted and immature mangroves including the existing
80,000 acres. There would be a thorough thinning of plantations in year 9.
Construction of Staff Housing and Offices
5.07      Virtually all the additional staff to be recruited would be working
in remote areas where there is little opportunity to obtain rented accommoda-
tion. The project would finance incremental staff housing and maintenance of
new and existing buildings used by FD staff. Apart from the Plantation Trial
l/   There are over 20 species of "mangrove" trees indigenous to the coastal
areas of Bangladesh.



- 15 -
Unit (PTU), it is not anticipated that there would be any additional require-
ment for office space for the staff concerned with the establishment and main-
tenance of the plantations either at plantation circle headquarters Khulna,
or at the divisional head offices. However, forest rangers would require
office accom .dation in their houses, and funds for this purpose have been
included in the project costs. The four research rangers of the PTU would
be provided with additional space required for simple laboratory experiments.
5.08      Houses used by FD staff are categorized into two types:
-    Permanent (constructed of brick with tiled roof); and
-    Semi-permanent (constructed of lower grade brick with
corrugated iron roof).
5.09      As of November 1979 construction costs of the two types of buildings
in the four coastal districts were Taka 200 per sq ft for permanent houses,
and Taka 125 per sq ft for semi-permanent houses.  The building standard for
each staff category, area of accommodation, number and construction cost in
each of the first four years, are set out in Annex 1, Table 12.  Maintenance
costs for new and existing buildings are estimated at 3% of initial construc-
tion cost per annum.
5.10      To date FD has spent Taka 7.4 million for 125 permanent and semi-
permanent buildings and some 170 temporary sheds in the Patuakhali, Barisal,
Noakhali andi Chittag(ng districts; however, due to cuts in approved budget
allocations and the Uigh rise in construction costs the building program is
lagging far behind schedule.
5.11      The project would require construction of 367 permanent and semi-
permanent quarters for different staff categories of which 78 would be built
in year 1, 102 in year 2, 143 in year 3, and 44 in year 4 of the project.
In addition, an office and a laboratory for the PTU would be constructed at
Khulna, a new dormitory block with bathhouse would be built at the Forest
Rangers Training College (FRTC) at Chittagong, and RFO instructor's quarters
would be constructed at Sylhet Forest Institute. Construction works would
be carried out by local contractors (para 6.03). Area, number and construc-
tion costs for PTU buildings, FRTC dormitory and Sylhet Forest Institute
quarters are also shown in Annex 1.
Boats, Vehicles and Equipment
5.12      Boats.  With the exception of Chittagong division where most of the
plantation areas are accessible from the mainland, FD staff, laborers and
planting material must be transported by boat. Project implementation and
supervision would therefore be dependent on the availability of suitable water
borne transport.
5.13      As of June 1979, FD had at its disposal one launch (length 55 ft,
draft 10 ft), 17 motor-boats (of which five were operational), and 55 country



- 16 -
boats (five under repair). In relation to FD's tasks in the coastal areas,
the present fleet is inadequate in number and further reduced by breakdowns
and poor maintenance, mainly caused by a shortage of funds for maintenance
and repair works. Nevertheless, in recent years FD has been able to reach
its annual planting targets. This has only been possible by continuing work
under difficult and dangerous conditions, and cutting down on tasks other
than planting operations, such as survey work, growth assessment, and planta-
tion management.
5.14      To meet the proposed target of planting 100,000 acres during a
five year period, it would be necessary to considerably expand and improve
FD's existing fleet. The project would finance the provision of four launches
(each approximately 65 ft length), one for each DFO and his assistant. Apart
from crew's quarters, these vessels would provide accommodation for 2-4
officers and staff as well as simple office facilities. Each launch would
have a wide range of operation and should therefore be very stable while at
the same time its draft should be as low as possible in order to be able to
operate in shallow waters. Fuel and water tanks should be adequate to allow
long trips and supply of other craft and shore facilities.
5.15      The existing seedcarrier was intended to transport mangrove seeds
from the Sunderbans to the nurseries in the various districts. Due to inade-
quacy of the propulsion unit and heavy hull repair it was taken out of oper-
ation and needs to be replaced. For more than one year seed collecting in the
Sunderbans and transporting to the nurseries has been contracted to private
boat owners, which has been a serious constraint to FD's coastal activities.
Scheduling of these boats has been poor, and return trips tended to last too
long, so that on several occasions the cargo was spoiled. Therefore, the
project would provide a combination transport vessel (approximately 75 ft
length) which not only would transport seeds during the planting season
(May-October) but would also be able to carry building materials, fuel, water
and other requisites for FD's needs. It is anticipated that these operations
would keep the vessel employed throughout the year.
5.16      Motorboats provide transportation for supervisors in moving between
work areas and for the range forest officers in operation ranges. These
boats, although used predominantly in less exposed waters, are subjected
to considerable stress, particularly during the monsoon period, and a strong
hull and reliable engine are essential for the safety of FD personnel operat-
ing and using the boats. The project would provide funds for 25 motorboats,
four of which should be used in combination with the divisional launches, one
for the use of remote sensing ground data collection crews, and the remaining
20 by rangers involved in plantation establishment. In addition to new
motorboats, the project would finance the repair of existing motorboats
through provision of replacement engines and/or supply of engine spares.
5.17      Country boats, presently used by FD are open, wooden, non-mechanized
craft which are useful for operation in sheltered waters and for travelling
short distances. These boats are mainly used by FD field staff, for trans-
portation of labor gangs, and for carrying planting material, food, water and
other requisites. To meet the needs of the project, 70 additional country-
boats of three different types would be provided: 20 heavy country-boats with



- 17 -
temporary roofing for transportation of planting gangs (up to 25 people) and a
crew of 7, 30 medium size country-boats, carrying up to 10 people and a crew
of 5, and 20 small country-boats, carrying up to 6 people and a crew of 3.
Thus, all needs for water borne transport of FD staff and hired labor would
be met and FD would no longer be dependent on hiring costly privately owned
boats. Not all of the heavy and medium size country boats would be used
throughout the year. Nevertheless, a careful analysis showed that the break-
even point between rental and purchase costs would be reached after 2-3 years,
depending on boat size and local rents.
5.18      During negotiations, specifications and draft tender documents for
the different boat types were reviewed and found satisfactory.
5.19      Vehicles.  At present FD has at its disposal five 4-wheel drive
vehicles, one for each of the Divisional Forest Officers (DFO) and one for
the conservator at Khulna. The project would replace the existing vehicles
and would provide one additional vehicle to headquarters at Khulna.
5.20      Six additional motorcycles would be provided, three for Chittagong
division and one each for the other three divisions. They would be issued
to Range Forest Officers and maintained by FD. The project would also
finance the purchase of some 60 bicycles to provide each range with one
bicycle. These bicycles would be owned, numbered and maintained by FD.
5.21      Equipment.  The project would provide eleven wireless sets which
together with seven sets already acquired (but not yet operational) by FD
would be used to (i) maintain communication between Khulna headquarters,
divisional offices, and field stations for normal management purposes, (ii)
relay storm and cyclone warnings, and (iii) provide services in case of
other emergency situations. Ten wireless base stations would be set up at
Khulna, Barisal, Patuakhali, Noakhali, Chittagong, and aboard the four
launches and the seed carrier. The remaining eight wireless sets (with
batteries and chargers) would be set up in remote range offices to serve a
number of ranges each. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from
GOB that that licensing of sets and allocation of wave lengths would be
completed by December 31, 1980.
5.22      Fuel and water needed at the plantation sites would be supplied in
drums, or directly from the tanks of the transport vessel and launches. The
project would provide 250 40-gallon drums to supply fresh water to staff and
planting gangs in remote areas.
Plantation Trial Unit
5.23      The Forest Research Institute (FRI) at Chittagong, has an extensive
series of mangrove related projects in its Annual Research Program 1979/80,
but most of these have not yet or only just begun. In practice, research
in the Coastal Afforestation Divisions is in the hands of individual DFO's,
and initial successes in planting Keora and Baen species have further reduced



- 18 -
in the Coastal Afforestation Divisions is in the hands of individual DFO's,
and initial successes in planting Keora and Baen species have further reduced
the immediate urgency for research on alternative pioneer and successor
species. Also, no research is under way on alternative plantation management
techniques, including utilization of mangrove plantations ready for thinning
or felling.
5.24      There exists therefore a need to carry out applied research which
would provide a direct and immediate feedback to operational staff, and assist
them in establishing and managing their plantations. The program should not
attempt a comprehensive research study of mangroves in Bangladesh, nor detailed
studies in related fields, e.g. coastal hydrology, which are the responsibility
of other agencies.
5.25      To implement such a pragmatic, field-oriented research program, the
project would set up a Plantation Trial Unit (PTU), which would be headed by a
Deputy Conservator (silviculturist), directly responsible to the Conservator
Coastal Plantation Circle, and stationed at Barisal which is easily accessible
from Dacca as well as from other coastal divisions. The PTU would aim at:
(a) standardizing the recordings of data on afforestation
activities;
(b) monitoring changing site conditions in plantations;
(c) investigating the ecological requirements of species which
may be used in the plantation program;
(d) selecting appropriate sites for further planting - supported
by the Bangladesh Landsat Program (BLP); and
(e) developing management concepts for optimum utilization of
plantations.
5.26      Specifically the applied research program would include:
(a) seed procurement techniques from either natural forests or
plantations;
(b) techniques for improvement of nursery stock, including root
pruning experiments;
(c) plantation establishment: spacing trials designed to reduce
beating-up operations in young plantations;
(d) ecological succession and land capability: sequential
replacement of species with changing site conditions; land
protection and productivity under different utilization;
(e) growth and yield studies, preparation of volume tables;



- 19 -
(f)  thinning and extraction techniques;
(g)  protection:  studies to control defoliating and shoot-boring
insects, and of rodent damage and control, particularly in
plantations close to villages;
(h)  controlled grazing on high lying charlands; and
(i)  at each major afforestation site:  regular measurements of
topography, sedimentation and accretion rates; of depth,
duration, and frequency of inundations; of water level and
salinity variations in feeder channels adjacent to the
plantations.
5.27      The PTU's annual work program would be proposed to the Chief Con-
servator of Forests by the Head of PTU through the Conservator Coastal
Plantation Circle (para 7.03). The program would then be finalized and
formulated with assistance from FRI/UNDP staff or outside consultants and
cleared by the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC). A UNDP
project to provide further support to FRI (para 2.16), also in the field of
mangrove plantation management and utilization, is presently under preparation
and expected to begin in early 1980. However, to ensure expert assistance to
the PTU, the project would provide for ten MM of technical assistance phased
over the five year implementation period.
5.28      In addition to TA, the project would finance staff salaries, housing
with attached offices and laboratory space, transport, and laboratory and
office equipment for the PTU. Staffing of the PTU is outlined in Annex 1,
Table 3. In each coastal division field trials would be supervised by a
research ranger assisted by two foresters. Trials would be carried out with
simple equipment, avoiding over-elaborate research designs and techniques.
GOB has designated a silviculturist of the rank of deputy conservator, and
a soil scientist of the rank of assistant conservator, as head and deputy
head of the PTU respectively. An assurance was obtained that GOB would, by
December 31, 1980 forward to IDA a draft research program for the PTU; and
the establishment of the PTU would be a condition for credit effectiveness.
Audio Visual Equipment
5.29      A serious shortage of land exists in Bangladesh, and there is stren-
uous competition for new land. Previously the coastal afforestation program
was directed towards both the high char lands and the low char lands. High
char lands are the more desirable lands for cattle grazing, and afforestation
of the high chars competed directly with the interests of livestock owners.
However, plantations on high char lands experienced slow growth and stagnation
due to insufficient tidal flooding. The FD has therefore agreed to focus its
coastal afforestation efforts on the low char lands. The project would provide
audio visual equipment required to inform local people of the change in program
focus and to publicize thinning operations which would provide free fuelwood
to local villagers.



- 20 -
Training
5.30      All ranks of forest staff except plantation malis must complete
a prescribed training course before recruitment. There are four recognized
entry points within FD, they are Forest Guard, Forester, Range Forest Officer,
and Assistant Conservator of Forests. Promotion thereafter is by length of
service and merit, without the requirement of further training. According
to present GOB regulations, vacancies of any rank that is also an entry point
into the service, may be filled by two thirds from training courses, and by
one third through promotion of serving officers who joined the service at a
lower entry point. The annual recruitment requirements for all categories
of staff for the project are listed in Annex 1, Table 5. The project's re-
cruitment needs for forest rangers and guards would exceed the present capa-
city of their respective training centers at Chittagong and Sylhet, even
allowing for one third of recruitment to be met by promotions. It is there-
fore proposed to improve and expand the facilities of these institutions.
5.31       Forest Rangers Training College.  The project would provide an
additional dormitory block which would allow doubling of the present intake
of students from 15 every other year to 15 each year. This would be feasible
without the need for additional permanent teaching staff since major inputs
to the training program would be provided by FRI staff. The project would
further finance: (i) two mini-buses, since considerable importance is placed
on practical work in plantations near Chittagong, and since the existing
college motor bus is ten years old and needs to be replaced; (ii) a supply of
training and laboratory equipment (Annex 1); and (iii) advanced training of
the permanent teaching staff at Los Banos in the Philippines. Courses there
cover teaching methods, educational planning, and practical approaches to
forestry training.
5.32      Forest Institute Sylhet.  At the present time, this institute runs
two three-months courses each year for Forest Guards. Accommodation is not a
constraint to increasing the number of students, but the institute has only
one instructor. The project would finance one further instructor (RFO grade)
to increase the number of courses to three, and the number of graduates from
60 to 90 each year. It would also provide accommodation for the additional
instructor.
Monitoring
5.33      Remote Sensing.  Land accretion and erosion would be monitored
through remote sensing and/or aerial photography. These techniques would be
employed in site selection for new plantations. The required monitoring
services would be carried out by the Bangladesh Landsat Program (BLP) under
contract to FD.
5.34       In view of the proposed and ongoing assistance to BLP, the project
would not finance any equipment. Instead, it would provide funds to FD to
allow monitoring of the effects of plantation establishment on land accretion
through BLP by the following means:



- 21 -
(a)  purchase and computer processing of relevant LANDSAT tapes;
(b)  aircraft support services and technical assistance for
groundtruthing, including mapping;
(c)  BLP personnel to liaise with FD, and to carry out g  und-
truthing and mapping; and
(d)  aircraft and scanner rental to carry out annual aerial photo-
graphy (scale 1:5,000-1:10,000) of the project area in sup-
port of remote sensing analysis, if and when required.
5.35       No further training to FD staff is envisaged since a number of
officers serving in the coastal areas were already trained in remote sensing
and categorizing of forests and land use. These officers would be expected
to assist BLP and TA staff in groundtruthing. FD vessels would also be made
available for this purpose (para 5.16). The project would also provide an
annual two MM of TA for groundtruthing. This is to emphasize the importance
of groundtruthing which is perhaps the most essential component of the remote
sensing approach.
5.36       Funds provided would allow annual monitoring.  However, it remains
to be seen whether annual monitoring intervals will not be too close to allow
identification of changes. An assurance was obtained that GOB would submit
a work program for monitoring of land accretion and mangrove plantations
through remote sensing techniques and/or aerial photography by December 31,
1980.
5.37       Reporting.  A small monitoring and data collection unit would be
established under the Deputy Conservator (Direction) of the Plantation Circle,
stationed at Khulna. This unit would be responsible for the collection of
data to be included in a bi-annual progress report to IDA. A draft outline
of this report is attached in Annex 4. In addition to the Deputy Conservator
(Direction) who would attend to the unit part-time, the unit would be staffed
with one head clerk and one accountant. They would use the DFO's monthly
reports and the Conservator's reports to the Chief Conservator, Dacca, to
extract the necessary data. The format of monthly reports submitted by DFO's
and forest rangers as well as the PTU should therefore reflect, to the extent
possible, the reporting requirements of the monitoring and data collection unit.
Implementation Schedule
5.38       The project would commence in July 1980.  To ensure timely delivery
of boats, draft tender documents were brought to negotiations by GOB and
approved by IDA (para 5.18). The proposed project implementation schedule
(Annex 4) would allow the project to be completed by June 1985. An assurance
was obtained, that FD would submit a draft project completion report to IDA
not later than six months after project completion.



- 22 -
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
6.01      The total cost of the five year project is estimated at Taka 275.2
million (US$17.2 million) of which Taka 70.5 million (US$4.4 million) or 26%
would be foreign exchange and Taka 34.6 million duties and taxes. Details of
project costs, summarized in Table 6.1 below, are given in Annex 1. All cost
estimates are based on recent actual costs for comparable items or services
overseas or in Bangladesh and were projected to June 1980. Physical contin-
gencies added to the base cost estimates amount to 7% of base costs and inc-
lude 15% for civil works, boats, vehicles, and equipment, the PTU and the
remote sensing component. Price contingencies amount to 30% of base costs
plus physical contingencies. They were estimated at 10% per annum for imported
vessels, and for locally procured boats, vehicles, and equipment, and at 20%
per annum for civil works. 1/
1/   This estimate is based on actual price escalations in Bangladesh for
building materials and wages in the construction industry over the past
two years.



- 23 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES
% of
Base    %
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost   F.E.
---(Taka Million)----  ---(US$ Million)--- /c
PLANTATION
DEVELOPMENT
Establishment          39.17      -      39.17   2.45      -      2.45    20      -
Management             51.01      -      51.01   3.19      -      3.19    26      -
Staff Housing
and Offices          17.33    5.78   23.11   1.08   0.36    1.44    12    25
Boats, Vehicles
& Equipment           5.20   15.60   20.80   0.32   0.98    1.30    11    75
Maintenance and
Repair /a            24.63   16.74   41.37   1.54   1.05    2.59    21    40
Sub-Total          137.34   38.12  175.46   8.58   2.39   10.97    90    19
SUPPORT SERVICES
Plantation Trial
Unit                  5.13    3.56    8.69   0.32   0.22    0.54         4    41
Public Relations
& Training            1.09    1.86    2.95   0.07   0.12    0.19         1    63
Remote Sersing          2.19    7.78    9.97   0.14   0.49    0.63         5    78
Sub-Total            8.41   13.20   21.61   0.53   0.83    1.36    10    61
Base Cost          145.75   51.32  197.07   9.11   3.21   12.33   100    24
Physical
Contingencies         8.37    6.14   14.51   0.52   0.38    0.90         7    42
Price Contin-
gencies              50.60   12.99   63.59   3.16   0.81    3.97    32    20
Total Project
Cost /b            204.72   70.45  275.17  12.79   4.41   17.20   139    26
/a   Including management of immature plantations, and maintenance and repair
of new and existing buildings, boats, vehicles and equipment.
/b   Including taxes and duties amounting to Take 33.65 million.
/c   Due to rounding, amounts do not always add up.
Financing
6.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$11.0 million would cover 72% of total
project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The credit would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs, and 61% of local costs, net of taxes and duties (for
details see Table 6.2). GOB would finance the balance of project costs,
amounting to Taka 99.0 million (US$6.2 million) and including taxes and duties
of about Taka 34 million, through annual budget appropriations made to FD as
grants.



- 24 -
Table 6.2: FINANCING
GOB /a    IDA      Total
-------US$1000-
Plantation Establishment             324      2,920    3,244
Plantation Management                912      3,271    4,183
Staff Housing & Offices              445      1,780    2,225
Boats, Vehicles & Equipment          328      1,093    1,421
Maintenance and Repair /b          3,640          0    3,640
Plantation Trial Unit                305        340      645
Public Relation & Training            69        130      199
Remote Sensing                        88        666      754
Unallocated /c                        87        800      887
Total Project Cost             6,198    11,000   17,198
/a   Including taxes and duties amounting to US$2.1 million.
lb   Including management of existing plantations, and
maintenance and repair of new and existing buildings,
boats, vehicles, and equipment.
/c   Physical contingencies only.
Procurement
6.03      Civil Works (US$2.4 million).  Staff housing and offices would
include relatively small, simple structures widely distributed throughout the
project area. They are therefore regarded unsuitable for international com-
petitive bidding (ICB), and construction would be carried out under contracts
let through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to IDA.
In cases where no responsive bids or no bids at all are received, construction
would be carried out by force account through FD. These procedures are
standard practice and no major problems are expected.
6.04      Boats, Vehicles and Equipment.  The four launches and the boat
equipped as seed carrier (US$0.7 million) would be procured through ICB in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Country boats which would be built
locally, outboard engines which are offered in Bangladesh by a number of
suppliers through local sales agents, vehicles and equipment (US$0.9 million)
would be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA, on the basis of
comparing prices from no less than three suppliers. Since in any one year no
more than thirteen outboard engines, two vehicles, and six motorcycles would
be purchased, this procedure would be justified in the interest of timely
procurement. Motorboat hulls totalling US$80,000 would be purchased off-the-
shelf from the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC), the only
manufacturer of fiberglass hulls in Bangladesh, and a supplier of hulls to the
Bangladesh police force and navy. Off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$100,000 for each contract, would be purchased through normal GOB procedures
which are satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases would be limited to US$500,000.



- 25 -
6.05      Technical assistance specialists and services required for the
PTU (para 5.27) and remote sensing (para 5.35) totaling US$750,000 1/ would
be hired in accordance with IDA guidelines.  The average MM cost (based on
individual's fees, international travel and local allowances) is expected to
be about US$8,000. The balance of project cost (excluding unallocated funds)
would consist of overseas training (US$62,000) and planting costs, salaries,
and operating costs (US$12.3 million).
Disbursement
6.06      Disbursements under the IDA credit would extend over five years and
estimated quarterly disbursements are given in Annex 1, Table 21. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by December 31, 1985, six months after the
end of project implementation. The credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods and services and 60% of local expenditures for
goods and services procured locally through LCB or
off-the-shelf (US$2.0 M);
(b)  80% of total expenditures for civil works, and salaries
and wages of FD staff and local staff employed under con-
tract to FD (US$5.1 M);
(c)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance and over-
seas training (US$0.2 M); and
(d)  Direct planting expenditures 2/ would be disbursed at
US$32 per acre Keora and US$18 per acre Baen which would
amount to 90% of total plantation establishment cost
(Table 6.2) (US$2.9 M).
6.07      Direct planting expenditures include:  procurement of seeds, nursery
costs, planting, and maintenance of plantations, and they exclude wages and
salaries of permanent FD staff. 70% of direct planting costs (US$22 and US$13
per acre respectively) would be disbursed against quarterly statements of area
planted, prepared by the project manager (Conservator Coastal Plantation
Circle), and certified by the Chief Conservator of Forests. The remaining 30%
(US$10 and US$5 per acre respectively) would only be disbursed against those
project plantings which have been certified by the project manager and the
Chief Conservator, FD, as being satisfactorily established. Documentation
supporting this certificate, e.g. inspection reports supported by survey maps
and information obtained through remote sensing and/or aerial photography
would be retained by FD for review during project supervision. Project
plantings would be considered established about 12 months after planting.
Inspection would be carried out during the winter season and reports should be
based on the following criteria:
(a) Stand: initial planting of about 2,700 trees per acre; and
1/   Average cost is estimated at about $8,000 per man-month.
2/   Based on 80,000 acres Keora and 20,000 acres Baen.



- 26 -
(b) Survival: 12 months after planting a minimum survival of
2,200 trees per acre.
6.08      Disbursements for salaries and wages of FD staff would be made
against quarterly statements of expenditure prepared by the project manager
and certified by the Chief Conservator, FD. Disbursements for all other force
account work and off-the-shelf purchases not exceeding Taka 100,000 for which
it would not be practical to submit documents, would be against statements of
expenditure certified by the project manager. Full documentation would be
required for all other disbursements. For the purpose of disbursements against
statements of expenditure, the Forest Department's institutional and staffing
capabilities and experience, as well as budgeting and accounting practices,
are regarded adequate and satisfactory.
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
6.09      Budgeting.  FD has prepared a draft Project Proforma (PP) based on
SAR cost estimates; it would be a condition for credit effectiveness that
GOB has approved a PP.
6.10      Accounts.  An assurance was obtained from GOB that FD would
maintain records satisfactory to IDA, to identify physical and financial
transactions relating to the project, and that the project manager would
submit a bi-annual progress report based on these records to IDA (para 5.37
and Annex 4).
6.11      Audit.  Assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a) FD would have its accounts and financial statements relating
to the project, including statements of expenditure for each
fiscal year, audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and
(b) FD would provide audited statements together with the
auditor's report, within nine months from the end of the
fiscal year.
VII. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
7.01      The project would be managed by the Conservator Coastal Plantation
Circle (CCPC) stationed at Khulna who is directly responsible to the Chief
Conservator of Forests, Dacca. It would be executed by four DFO's in the
districts of Pathuakhali, Barisal, Noakhali, and Chittagong. The project
would include and finance all activities of these four divisions over a five
year period, beginning in July 1980.
7.02      Plantations would be established and managed within the existing
organizational framework of the Plantation Circle which has proven itself in
the past.



- 27 -
7.03      Plantation Trial Unit.  This unit would be headed by a silviculturi!
(DCF) stationed at Barisal and assisted by a soil scientist (ACF) who would
also act as his deputy, and support staff, including a statistician and an
accountant. Plantation trials in each forest division would be implemented
and supervised by a research ranger supported by two foresters. The head of
the PTU would report directly to the CCPC (para 5.25).
7.04      Monitoring.  Remote sensing would be carried out by BLP (para 5.33)
under contract to FD and according to the project's monitoring requirements.
Reporting would be supervised by the deputy project manager (DCF Direction),
and the CCPC would submit bi-annual project reports to IDA (para 5.37).
Staffing Requirements
7.05      Although no organizational changes are envisaged, the project would
more than double existing field staff from 715 in FY80 to 1,645 in FY85. This
increase is due to the requirements for plantation establishment and manage-
ment. A summary of existing and required field staff is shown below and
further details are given in Annex 1.
Table 7.1: FIELD STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Required FY85
Staff Category             In Post FY80        Incremental    Total
Ranger (FRO)                    29                 27            56
Deputy Ranger                  128                 40           168
Forest Guard                   300                186           486
Plantation Mali                129                 21           150
Boatmen                         85                563           648
Motorboat Driver                 9                 16            25
Range Orderly                   29                 27            56
Night Guard                      6                 50            56
Total                    715                 930        1,645
7.06      With the doubling of FRTC's output of FRO's (para 5.31), no dif-
ficulties are expected in recruiting incremental staff. Estimates of field
staff requirements and recruitment are based on the model assumption that one
"operational range" would be required to establish 1,000 acres of new planta-
tions per year, and that one "maintenance and management range" would be needed
for each 5,000 acres of established plantations. Once a range would shift from
"operational" to "maintenance" status, it would still remain under the super-
vision of a ranger but with a reduced number of supporting staff (Annex 1,
Table 3).



- 28 -
VIII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
Production Forecasts
8.01      Mangrove growth and yield data for managed stands of Keora and
Baen is limited and is based on observations rather than actual measurement.
The only available published source of information on the growth of mangrove
is a report on the Sundarbans mangrove forests, published in 1959 by Forestal
International. The report gives volume and height equations for Keora, but
does not provide data on the growth rate of this species. Such data are
available only for young Gewa 1/ stands.
8.02      According to Forestal's measurements, young Gewa trees showed
an average annual diameter increment of .402 inches between age 1-5, and of
.321 inches between ages 6-10, equivalent to growth rates of 19% and 8%
respectively. The appraisal mission has employed the Gewa data in develop-
ing growth and yield tables for Keora and Baen (Annex 5) based on annual
growth rates of 19% (years 1-10) and 8% (years 11-20). These rates probably
are conservative given the observed faster growth of Keora and Baen compared
with Gewa. Keora and Baen do not show significant difference in growth rates
when planted on suitable sites. The yield tables also take into account
initial spacing, mortality rates and planting site conditions.
8.03      Production forecasts for 100,000 acres under mangrove plantations,
based on these growth assumptions, are shown in Table 8.1 below:
Table 8.1: PRODUCTION FORECASTS /a
(in million cu ft.)
Product                              Years 9-13       Years 17-21      Total
Marketable Fuelwood                        1.4           135.7         137.1
Non-marketable Fuelwood /b                84.0            52.7         136.7
Pulpwood                                  17.1            28.0          45.1
Sawlogs                                     -             45.5          45.5
Total                         102.5           261.9         364.4
/a   Details on plantation yields and production projections are given in
Annex 1, Table 9; and Annex 3, Table 4.
/b   Diameter of below 3".
8.04      Technically all marketable fuelwood could be used as pulpwood.  Pro-
duction forecasts for pulpwood from project mangrove plantations have therefore
1/   Another mangrove species (Excaecaria agallocha).



- 29 -
been based on expected pulpwood requirements in years 9-13 and 17-21 of the
project (para 8.20).
Markets for Mangrove Wood
8.05      Fuelwood.  Like all other wood categories in Bangladesh, fuelwood is
in short supply. One of the main sources of supply is the Sundarbans natural
mangrove forest where boats at times wait for up to a month for permits to cut
fuelwood, and where FD staff estimate that at present only about one third of
the demand from wood merchants is met.
8.06      Estimates of fuelwood consumption in Bangladesh vary widely.  FAO
statistics 1/ suggest an average annual per capita consumption of 4.5 cu ft.
However, in a working paper prepared by FD and FAO/UNDP mission in 1977 2/, a
tentative estimate of 0.7 cu ft/capita was developed. An ongoing UNDP wood
consumption survey indicates an even lower figure of about 0.4 cu ft/capita.
These figures are all considerably lower than fuelwood consumption figures in
neighboring countries as shown below:
Table 8.2: FUELWOOD CONSUMPTION IN SELECTED SOUTH ASIAN COUNTRIES /a
Country                           Annual Consumption
(in cu ft/capita)
Afghanistan                                15
Burma                                      23
India                                      7
Nepal                                      24
Pakistan /b                                 7
Sri Lanka                                  11
/a   1977 FAO Yearbook of Forest Products, except as noted.
7F   From:  "Pakistan:  Forestry Sector Survey".  World Bank Staff Working
Paper No. 284, Washington 1978.
8.07      Household energy requirements as estimated in FAO studies suggest
that in developing countries the annual requirement will range from about 1.2
million kcal/capita for cooking food on an open fire in warm lowland areas, to
6 million kcal/capita for cooking and heating in cold upland areas. This range
is equivalent to an annual fuelwood consumption of between 15 and 75 cu ft per
capita. Where fuel is expensive, or in short supply, overall energy consump-
tion has been found to be as much as 40Z lower. An energy survey conducted
in Bangladesh in 1976 indicates a total annual domestic energy consumption of
0.7 million kcal per capita which is equivalent to about 10 cu ft of fuelwood.
1/   1977 Yearbook of Forest Products, FAO, Rome, 1979.
2/   Working Paper No. IV:  "Forestry Development", GOB and FAO/UNDP Mission,
Dacca, 1977.



- 30 -
8.08      From the above statistics it would appear that less than 10% of
household energy in Bangladesh comes from fuelwood (as compared to India and
Pakistan where about 50% of domestic energy consumed is derived from fuelwood).
In the absence of fuelwood, Bangladesh's rural households use agricultural
residues (58%), cow-dung (23%), commercial fuel (principally kerosene),
natural gas, and electricity.
8.09      Many agricultural wastes could be used as fodder.  Cow-dung is
valuable as fertilizer and kerosene must be imported. It is evident, there-
fore, that the substitution of these materials because of a shortage of
fuelwood has a serious impact in other areas of the economy.
8.10      Although all of Bangladesh is short of wood, transportation costs
preclude at the present time giving serious consideration to the transport
of fuelwood from mangrove plantations to locations outside the coastal
districts where the plantations are to be established. The total population
of Pathuakhali, Barisal, Noakhali and Chittagong districts is estimated at
17 million, and will have increased to about 29 million by the year 2000.
Domestic energy requirements of these people would be the equivalent of about
290 million cu ft of fuelwood p.a. With the project expected to yield about
50 million cu ft fuelwood p.a. during its five years of maximum production
and assuming an additional 30 million cu ft fuelwood p.a. (10% of require-
ments) from other sources, about 70% of all domestic energy requirements of
the project area would still have to be met by non-wood materials.
8.11      About 50% of all fuelwood would be marketed through contractors
in villages and towns within an estimated 70 mile radius from plantation
sites. It would reach wholesale markets mainly by river transport. The
remaining 50% would not be of marketable quality (less than 3" diameter), and
would be left for collection by villagers living close to the plantations.
8.12      During the thinning stage, FE would employ laborers to fell and
extract the trees, and to cut and stack marketable fuelwood at plantation
sites for sale to contractors. Contractors would be responsible for transport
and marketing operations. Final felling operations, including extraction,
stacking, transporting, and marketing would also be carried out by contractors
who are well experienced in this type of work.
8.13      With present demand for fuelwood far exceeding supply, a situation
which is likely to become more serious in future, no difficulties are expected
in marketing the project's saleable fuelwood at attractive prices (Table 8.5).
8.14      Pulpwood.  The demand for pulpwood is closely related to the market
for paper and wood-based panels. The 1978/79 paper consumption figure of
about 50,000 tons for Bangladesh is equivalent to 1.3 lb/capita, which is one
of the lowest paper usage levels in the world (India 4.0 lb/capita, Pakistan
3.3 lb/capita). Current paper consumption includes the following principle
grades:



- 31 -
Table 8.3:  BREAKDOWN OF CURRENT PAPER CONSUMPTION BY GRADES
Grade                                  Amount
(Tons)
Newsprint                              15,000
Other Printing and Writing Paper       20,000
Paperboard                             10,000
Other Grades                            5,000
Total                             50,000
8.15      In Bangladesh's brief history, domestic paper consumption has
increased about 4% annually, and since it has been constrained by limited
supplies, this growth rate is expected to continue at least at this level
in future years.
8.16      For hardboard, domestic sales from the Khulna Hardboard Mill of
about 20 million sq. ft. in 78/79 are close to actual domestic consumption as
imports and exports of this commodity are negligible. Growth in demand has
averaged about 8% annually over the five year period 74/75 to 78/79. For
particleboard (3.3 million sq. ft. in 78/79), the average increase in demand
has been closer to 16%. However, these growth rates have been computed from
a rather low base consumption, and somewhat lower rates of increase must be
anticipated in future.
8.17      A detailed report on the Bangladesh pulp, paper and woodbased panel
industry, reviewing fresent and planned production capacities, actual pro-
duction, domestic and export markets as well as expected prices, and required
breakeven prices at different stumpage costs of pulpwood is contained in the
project file (Annex 6).
8.18      Over the past two years Bangladesh has considerably expanded exports
of papers, particularly newsprint, to nearby countries, particularly to India
and Pakistan. A 1977 market survey indicated good prospects for Bangladesh
newsprint in these countries. Draft documents prepared by GOB for the Second
Five-Year Plan propose expansions in newsprint (25,000 tons) and printing and
writing papers (20,000 tons) for the mid-1980's which, at least initially,
would be aimed at supplying export markets. Even if no new capacity is
installed, the improvement and modernization of the existing mills will
increase the demand for fibre over present levels. At Karnaphuli Paper Mill
(KPM), bamboo is becoming increasingly difficult and costly to procure, and
although the mill has successfully pulped a mix of local hardwoods in con-
junction with bamboo, this has not been accomplished without higher production
costs and a deterioration in quality. At Khulna Newsprint Mill (KNM), in the
absence of any recent inventory data, the long-range supply picture for Gewa
from the Sundarbans is not clear. Under these circumstances it is most likely
that wood from coastal plantations may be necessary just for the continuation
of existing operations.
8.19      At the present time the two species of wood which would form the
bulk of the proposed plantings (Keora and Baen) have not been fully tested for
either chemical pulping at KPM or chemi-mechanical/mechanical pulping at KNM.
However, some preliminary work which has been undertaken at the Forest Research



- 32 -
Institute, and the general characteristics of the wood, suggest that Keora in
particular should be a suitable species for both mills. Baen, because of its
higher density, may not be so suitable for paper manufacture but should be
acceptable for particleboard and hardboard. Timber collection for mill-scale
trials is now underway and it is anticipated that the results will be available
during 1980.
8.20      Pulpwood demand by the paper and panel industries can be projected
both for the case where the industry expands to increase exports or for the
case where new capacity is installed only to meet increases in domestic demand.
The projected total wood requirements under each of these development strat-
egies and potential demand for pulpwood from mangrove plantations are shown
below:
Table 8.4: PROJECTION OF WOOD REQUIREMENTS
Wood Requirements (in million cu ft)
Purpose     Case I (Domestic Oriented)         Case II (Export Oriented)
84/85    91/92    98/99          84/85    91/92    98/99
For Khulna     4.2       4.2       4.2           4.2      6.3       6.3
For KPM         2.6      2.6       3.3           2.6      4.2       4.2
For Panels     0.9       1.4       2.3           0.9      1.4       2.3
Total     7.7       8.2       9.8           7.7     11.9      12.8
of which potentially
Mangrove        3.5      4.0       5.6           3.5      7.7       8.6
Notes:  (1)  Case I assumes that 9,000 tons of new capacity would be
added at Kharnaphuli in the mid 1990's to meet growing
domestic demand, and that particleboard and hardboard
capacity would also be added as required.
(2) Case II assumes 25,000 tons of new newsprint capacity and
20,000 tons of new paper capacity coming on stream in the
mid 1980's. Particleboard and hardboard capacity would
expand as for Case 1.
(3) The mangrove component of wood requirements was estimated
on the assumption that Kharnaphuli and the panel opera-
tions would use only mangrove, as would any expansion at
Khulna.
8.21      Assumptions under Case I which were used to compute project benefits
indicate that by the late 1990's the demand for pulpwood from mangrove planta-
tions would be 5.6 million cu ft per annum. In the unlikely event that the
pulpwood demand does not materialize, the 5.6 million cu ft of wood could be



- 33 -
marketed as fuelwood. Estimated pulpwood sales are only 14% of expected fuel-
wood sales. Furthermore, there is little difference between the respective
financial and economic prices of pulpwood and fuelwood (Table 8.5). Thus,
financial and economic viability of the project is insensitive to the assump-
tions made regarding the pulpwood market.
8.22      Sawlogs.  Little information exists concerning the current consump-
tion of sawnwood in Bangladesh but it is quite clear that there is a consider-
able shortage of industrial wood in the country. This is evidenced in a
number of ways, including the high price of sawnwood, and the use of substitute
materials such as steel and fibreglass for furniture, and steel for transmis-
sion poles. More than half of Bangladesh's sawnwood is produced in some 200
bandsaw units utilizing bulks which in turn are produced by pitsawers. There
are also three full-scale sawmills including one run by the Bangladesh Forest
Industries Corporation at Kaptai. There is a chronic shortage of logs in all
mills which are therefore operated at far below potential capacity.
8.23      Actual sawnwood production is estimated by FAO to be some 10 million
cu ft. annually, and as there are no significant imports or exports, this
figure would also represent consumption. Another estimate, prepared by the
Forest Department, indicates a total log input to the sawmilling industry of
about 20 million cu ft annually which, at a 50% recovery rate (quite feasible
in the small, labor-intensive sawmills in Bangladesh) would confirm the 10
million cu ft annual timber sawnwood production and consumption figure. Per
capita sawnwood consumption is therefore of the order of 0.12 cu ft/annum,
which compares with figures of 0.38 cu ft in Indonesia, 0.21 cu ft in India,
and 0.12 cu ft in Pakistan. In Indonesia, where timber is not in short
supply, the consumption figure is indicative of a balanced demand-supply
situation. On this basis there is probably a suppressed demand in Bangladesh
for up to 20 million cu ft of sawnwood annually, representing a log input of
at least 40 million cu ft. Sawlog output from the mangrove plantations in the
peak production years will only be of the order of 11 million cu ft annually,
and no problem is foreseen in marketing this production to existing sawmills.
Price Assumptions
8.24      Stumpage prices 1/ for mangrove products used in financial and
economic analyses are given below:
Table 8.5: STUMPAGE PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
Mangrove Products             Financial Price /a       Economic Price /b
Tklcu ft               Tk/cu ft
Marketable Fuelwood                   2.4                    5.1
Non-marketable Fuelwood                -                     2.8
Pulpwood                             2.4                     5.7
Sawlogs                              5.2                    12.8
/a  For details see Annex 2, Table 1.
/b  For details see Annex 3, Table 2.
1/   The price for standing timber.



- 34 -
8.25      Marketable Fuelwood.  Its financial stumpage price of Tk 2.4/cu ft
is based on ti) a present retail price of Taka 18 per maund (82 lb) in the
project area, which is equivalent to Taka 5 per cu ft, assuming an air-dry
weight of about 20-24 lbs per cu ft fuelwood; (ii) transport and logging costs
of Taka 1.6 per cu ft; and (iii) an estimated profit margin (20% of retail
price) of Taka 1.0 per cu ft.
8.26      Pulpwood.  The stumpage rate which FD charges the Khulna Newsprint
Mill (KNM) for Gewa extracted from the Sundarbans does not reflect the economic
value of wood, since it was fixed many years ago at a nominal rate of Tk 6.25
per 100 cu ft up to three million cu ft per year, and beyond that quota at Tk
10 per 100 cu ft. Since the local supplies of raw materials for the paper
mills come from Government forests, or comprise other materials such as
baggasse, there is no open market for pulpwood in Bangladesh.
8.27      The estimated financial stumpage price for pulpwood of Taka 2.4 per
cu ft is based on (i) actual wood purchases from the private sector by KPM
during 1978/79 adjusted to an expected 1980 price at mill gate of Taka 6.9 per
cu ft; (ii) transport and logging costs of Taka 3.1 per cu ft; and (iii) and
an estimated profit margin (20% of factory gate price) of Taka 1.4 per cu ft.
A 1980 price for pulpwood (at mill gate) of Taka 6.9 per cu ft is quite compat-
ible with an estimated October 1979 import price for pulpwood of Taka 8.2 per
cu ft.
8.28      Sawlogs.  The financial stumpage price for mangrove wood to be
converted into sawn timber is estimated at Taka 5.2 per cu ft. This estimate
is based on a wholesale price of Taka 60 per cu ft for sawn timber, and a
price for sawlogs (at mill gate) of Taka 8.6 per cu ft (for details see Annex
2, Table 1).
8.29      The derivation of economic stumpage prices for fuelwood, pulpwood
and sawlogs is explained in Chapter IX and Annex 3, Table 2. Since financial
stumpage prices for marketable fuelwood and pulpwood are identical and their
estimated economic stumpage prices differ by only 11% in favor of pulpwood,
the suitability of Keora and Baen for pulping is not regarded essential for
the project's economic viability (Table 9.2).
IX. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
9.01      Wood Production.  Within a 20 year period the 100,000 acres under
mangrove plantations are expected to yield a total of:
Fuelwood: 274 million cu ft;
Pulpwood:   45 million cu ft;
Sawlogs:    46 million cu ft.



- 35 -
9.02      Production of fuel and pulpwood would begin in years 9 - 13 (as
by-products from thinning operations), and the remaining fuel and pulpwood
as well as sawlogs would become available in years 17 - 21. About 50% of
the fuelwood would be marketed through contractors in villages and towns
within an estimated 70 mile radius from the plantation sites. Present demand
for fuelwood in rural areas and towns not enjoying central gas supply is high,
and has over the past decade led to a fuelwood price increase exceeding the
average rate of inflation in Bangladesh. The project would therefore make a
modest, but much needed contribution towards closing the gap between demand
and supply for fuelwood in the coastal areas. Likewise, production of pulp-
wood and sawlogs is expected to be in great demand (paras 8.14 and 8.22).
9.03      The remaining 50% of fuelwood would not be of marketable quality,
and would be left for collection by villagers, mainly landless laborers,
living close to the plantations. It is anticipated that a good portion of
this fuelwood would replace dung and crop-residues, which are now needed as
sources for household energy, and would make them available for agricultural
use.
9.04      Due to the nature of the project, benefits from wood production
would accrue only in years 9 -13 and 17 - 21. However net incremental benefits
during the project life would total about Taka 1,785 million.
9.05      Employment Generation.  The project would offer additional positions
to about 900 people. Planting, thinning, and felling operations would require
a total of nine million man-days, equivalent to 4,000 casual laborers employed
over a period of six months each year during 15 out of 21 years. The majority
of this labor force would be drawn from landless sharecroppers living close to
the plantations.
9.06      Foreign Exchange Impact.  It has been assumed that 80% of marketable
fuelwood (110 million cu ft) would replace an equivalent of 124,000 tons of
imported kerosene, at present valued at US$390 per ton cif Chittagong. During
the project period, this would lead to import savings of about US$48 million
(Taka 770 million).
9.07      Land Accretion.  The project would conserve and stabilize newly
accreted land, mainly by protecting it from uncontrolled grazing which has
been observed to rapidly reverse the land accretion process. After a 17 year
mangrove cycle, and subject to its proven suitability for agricultural use,
the land would be distributed to landless laborers experienced in agriculture.
9.08      Other Benefits.  IDA is presently assessing a number of alternatives,
to assist GOB in developing economically viable marine fisheries projects with
particular reference to improving foreign exchange earnings 1/. The project
would contribute towards increasing fish and shrimp stocks benefiting from
tidal forests. Research results for West Bengal indicate that potential
shrimp yields from an additional 100,000 acres of tidal forests could amount
to about 1,000 tons of shrimp per annum.
1/   Source:  Marine Shrimp Fisheries Project, Draft Preparation Report,
January 1979.



- 36 -
9.09      Through its Plantation Trial Unit the project would assist in
gaining valuable information not only on mangrove afforestation practices but
also on potential land use patterns succeeding mangrove plantations; and the
investment into FRTC would double the output of forest rangers, also required
outside the project area. Finally, it is expected that the new plantations
would provide the coastal population with a certain degree of protection from
tidal waves and storms.
Economic Analysis
9.10      Valuation of Benefits.  The derivation of economic stumpage prices
for fuelwood, pulpwood, and sawlogs is given in Annex 3, Table 2. Pricing of
marketable fuelwood is based on the assumption that 80% of marketable fuelwood
would replace imported kerosene, and the remaining 20% other domestic energy
sources. The market price of fuelwood was thus adjusted by a SCF of 1.26 and
reduced by economic transport, handling, and logging costs to arrive at an
economic stumpage price of Taka 5.1 per cu ft.
9.11      The economic stumpage price for non-marketable fuelwood of Taka 2.8
per cu ft was obtained by adjusting both market price and relevant production
costs by a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.80 (para 9.14). An alternate
approach, based on the assumption that non-marketable fuelwood would replace
manure which in turn would result in an increased paddy production and thus
substitute for rice imports, gives an economic stumpage price for non-
marketable fuelwood of Taka 7.2 per cu ft. However, this alternative was only
applied as a sensitivity test (Table 9.2). The economic stumpage price for
both pulpwood and sawlogs is based on cif prices Chittagong for comparable
products, and local transport and logging costs, adjusted by the SCF.
9.12      For the foreseeable future the real price increase of kerosene is
estimated to be of the order of 3%. However in view of considerable differ-
ences in the respective supply curves, it is unlikely that the real price
of fuelwood would follow an identical pattern. A conservative real price
increase of 1% per annum for both marketable and non-marketable fuelwood
was therefore entered in the analysis.
9.13      Future benefits from agricultural land created by the project, and
benefits from increased fish and shrimp production which are likely to accrue
from new mangrove plantations, were not considered. However, "benefits
foregone" from grazing were accounted for since indications are that in a
without project scenario plantation sites would be degraded by overgrazing and
subsequent erosion. An estimated market value of grass, adjusted by the SCF,
was therefore deducted from the benefit stream.
9.14      Valuation of Costs.  In calculating the ERR, foreign exchange was
valued at the current exchange rate of US$1 = Taka 16. The estimated shadow
exchange rate of US$1 = Taka 20 resulted, therefore, in a standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.80 which was applied to local costs net of taxes. Imported
items were valued at their cif prices plus local transportation cost adjusted
by the SCF. Salaries of permanent FD staff were also adjusted by the SCF,
while casual labor for plantation establishment and maintenance was shadow-
priced using a special conversion factor (CF) of 0.54. This CF is based
on an opportunity cost for casual labor of Taka 10/man-day during the aman



- 37 -
planting season from mid-June to mid-August, of Taka 8/man-day during the
harvesting period of aman in November/December, and a subsistence value 1/
of Taka 6/man-day during the remainder of the year.  The resulting weighted
opportunity cost of labor (67% of financial cost) was then further adjusted
by the SCF (0.67 x 0.80 = 0.54). With the exception of plantation establish-
ment costs (where mortality rates for seedlings were assumed) and staff costs,
all cost items include physical contingencies of 15%.
9.15      The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project, relating only
to costs and benefits linked to the establishment and maintenance of 100,000
acres of new plantations (about 96% of total project cost) but not to the
maintenance of existing plantations, would be 18%. Its net present value
(NPV), discounted at 10%, would be Taka 227 million (US$14.2 million). Table
9.1 shows consolidated cost and benefit streams. Further details on the
analysis are given in Annex 3.
Impact on Government Budget
9.16      Project investment costs (including physical contingencies) during
the five year implementation period would amount to about Taka 100 million
(US$6.2 million). Replacement of motorboats, engines for launches, and
vehicles, during the following 16 years would require an additional Taka 20
million (US$1.2 million) in June 1980 prices. Annual operating costs would
average about Taka 19 million throughout the project period.
9.17      Revenues from wood sales are expected to yield about Taka 10 million
annually during years 9-13, and would average about Taka 140 million during
years 17-21.
9.18      The project would yield no net revenues during the first 16 years.
Excluding taxes and duties, FD would require about Taka 32 million (US$2
million) p.a. for years 1-5, and Taka 13 million (US$1 million) p.a. for
years 6-16. During its final years (17-21), the project would earn net
revenues in the order of Taka 124 million (US$7.8 million) p.a. at June 1980
prices (Annex 2, Table 2).
9.19      Project costs and revenues born by GOB (excluding loan receipts
and debt service of the IDA Credit) yield over a 21-year period an IRR of
5.5% in real terms (Annex 2, Table 2). The real interest rate (after adjust-
ing for inflation) at which GOB borrows in domestic markets is much lower
than 5.5%. Thus, the project would make a small but positive contribution to
the GOB budget over the 21-year project period.
1/   Based on subsistence requirement of 1 lb. of rice per head per day, a
family size of six persons (two labor units) per family, and a rice
price of Taka 2 per lb.



- 38 -
Table 9.1: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS /a
(In Million Taka)
Costs                             Benefits
Non-
Market-                        Incre-
Invest-  Oper-           Income   able    Market-               mental
ment    ating  Total   Fore-    Fuel-    able/b    Total          Net
Years   Costs   Costs  Costs    gone    wood    Wood -    Benefits   Benefits
1     28.86   13.89  42.75   (0.75)   0.00       0.00      (0.75)      (43.50)
2     10.99   14.04  25.03   (1.50)   0.00       0.00      (1.50)      (26.53)
3     14.16   13.74  27.90   (2.50)   0.00       0.00      (2.50)      (30.40)
4      8.24   15.59  23.83   (3.00)   0.00       0.00       (3.00)     (26.83)
5      5.26   16.12  21.83   (3.50)   0.00       0.00      (3.50)      (24.88)
6     (0.09)  13.41  13.32   (2.50)   0.00       0.00      (2.50)      (15.82)
7     (0.90)  12.61  11.71   (1.25)   0.00       0.00      (1.25)      (12.96)
8      0.40   12.61  13.01    0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00       (13.01)
9      0.01   12.61  12.62    0.00   38.56    19.95        58.51        45.80
10      0.01   12.61  12.62    0.00   38.93    19.95        58.88        46.27
11      7.20   12.61  19.80    0.00   52.42    21.09        73.51        53.70
12      0.67   12.61  13.27    0.00   66.36    26.26        92.62        79.35
13      0.89   12.61  13.49    0.00   66.99    26.29        93.28        79.79
14-15   0.01   12.61  12.62    0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00       (12.62)
16      0.55   12.61  13.16    0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00       (13.16)
17      0.38   12.61  12.98    0.00   26.23   233.98       260.21       247.23
18      0.40   12.61  13.01    0.00   26.47   235.92       262.39       249.38
19      0.01   12.61  12.62    0.00   35.49   316.54       352.03       339.42
20      0.01   12.61  12.62    0.00   45.14   398.62       443.76       431.14
21      0.55   12.61  13.16    0.00   45.14   400.42       445.96       432.80
Economic Rate of Return: 18%
/a   For details see Annex 3.
T7   Includes marketable fuelwood, pulpwood and sawlogs.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
9.20      Sensitivity tests assuming a shortfall or lag of benefits and cost
overruns are shown in Table 9.2:



- 39 -
Table 9.2: SENSITIVITY TESTS ON ERR AND PRESENT VALUES /a
Sensitivity                       ERR In %             Switching Value/ in %
Base Rate                           18.3
Non-Marketable Fuelwood                                          -193
Down 20%                         17.4
Down 60%                         15.8
Lag 1 year                       17.5
Lag 3 years                      16.5
Marketable Wood Ic                                               - 77
Down 20%                         16.8
Down 60%                         12.7
Lag 1 year                       16.2
Lag 3 years                      11.7
Investment Cost                                                  +386
Up 20%                           17.5
Up 60%                           15.1
Operating Cost
Up 20%                           17.1                        +194
Up 60%                           15.1
Yields                                                           - 58
/a For further tests see Annex 3, Table 6.
lb  The percentage change which reduces the NPV to zero at an opportunity
cost of capital of 10% (or the ERR to the OCC).
/c Includes marketable fuelwood, pulpwood, and sawlogs.
9.21      The ERR is relatively insensitive to increases in investment
and operating costs. It is somewhat more sensitive to a decrease in yields
and/or in prices of mangrove wood or a lag in project benefits. However,
even a 58% drop in expected yields or a decrease of 77% in prices for market-
able wood would still allow a 10% ERR.
9.22      Risk.  Experience in assessing the risks involved in establishing
mangrove plantations in Bangladesh as elsewhere is very limited. However,
certain conditions which may lead to the failure of individual plantations
were observed in the past and are described below:



- 40 -
(a)  Sediment supply in parts of Noakhali and Barisal districts can
be excessive, with annual increments so great, or chars so
mobile, that topographic change is independent of vegetative
cover. Under these conditions incorrect site selection would
lead to: the burial of seedlings; washing away of the plant-
ings; or stagnant growth due to lack of inundations. Since
1966 FD has developed sufficient experience in site selection
to keep this risk at an acceptable level.
(b)  The occurrence of strong winds (100-150 miles per hour) during
cyclonic storms could break or uproot the plantations. However,
severe damage would be limited to the center of the storm.
Spreading plantations throughout the coastal area would spread
the risk of storm damage.
(c)  Theft and illegal grazing by local people remains a risk to
newly established plantations. FD has been able to avoid
serious poaching problems in the past, and the project
would increase FD's ability to protect the forests.
9.23      FD's positive experience in dealing with the above risks, as well as
further protective measures provided for in the project, indicate that these
risks can be kept to manageable levels. The acceptable level of risk and the
estimated ERR of 18% fully justify the proposed investments.
X. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
10.01     During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a)  The official transfer period for lands planted under the
project would be extended by GOB in order to allow the
completion of the recommended mangrove rotation cycle and
that GOB would adequately manage mangrove plantations
until maturity (para 5.05).
(b)  Licensing of wireless sets and allocation of wave lengths
will have been completed by December 31, 1980 (para 5.21).
(c)  GOB would, by December 31, 1980 forward to IDA a draft
research program for the PTU (para 5.28).
(d)  GOB would submit a work program for monitoring and con-
trol of land accretion and mangrove plantations through
remote sensing techniques and/or aerial photography by
December 31, 1980 (para 5.36).
(e)  FD would submit a draft project completion report to
IDA not later than six months after project completion
(para 5.38);



- 41 -
V'p V91lt Zfint4in records satisfactory to IDA, to identify
physical 4nd financigl transactions relating to the project,
and that based on these records the Project Manager would
submit bi-annual progress reports (para 6.10).
(g) FD would have its accounts and financial statements, includ-
ing statements of expenditure, relating to the project for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles, consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA (para 6.11).
(i)  FP would provide the audited statements together with the
auditor's report, within nine months from the end of each
fiscal year (para 6.11).
10.02     Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) GOB has established the PTU (para 5.28); and
(b) GOB has approved a Project Proforma, (para 6.09).
10.03     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$11 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be the Government of Bangaldesh.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Project Cost
Table 1   Phasing of Project Cost
Table 2   Summary of Contingencies and Taxes
Table 3   Annual Cost per Staff Category
Table 4   Field Staff Requirements
Table 5   Phasing of Annual Recruitment and Staff Cost
Table 6   Summary of Staff Cost
Table 7   Cost of Staff Uniforms and Overheads
Table 8   Unit Cost of Plantation Establishment, Management  and Protection
Table 9   Plantation Models, Direct Costs and Yields
Table 10 New Plantations, Phasing and Establishment Cost
Table 11 Existing Plantations, Phasing and Management Cost
Table 12 Construction Cost Staff Housing and Offices
Table 13 Maintenance Staff Housing and Offices
Table 14 Investment Cost Boats, Vehicles and Equipment
Table 15 Operating Cost Boats, Vehicles and Equipment
Table 16 Investment Cost Plantation Trial Unit
Table 17 Operating Cost Plantation Trial Unit
Table 18 Investment Cost Public Relations and Training
Table 19 Operating Cost Public Relations and Training
Table 20 Cost of Remote Sensing and Aerial Photography
Table 21 Disbursement Schedule
Attachments
1. Plantation Trial Unit Equipment List
2. Public Relations Audio Visual Equipment
3. Equipment for Forest Rangers College, Chittagong



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Phasing of Project Cost
(Taka Thousand)
Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Total       F.E. in 7.
A. Plantation Developm.ent
1.  Establishment 1/
Base cost                                      5,137        6,123        7,834        9,875       10,204       39,173
Physical contingencie                              -            -            - _                       -            - _
Price contingencies                              257          949        2,119        3.926        5,483       12J34              -
Total cost                                     5,394        7,072        9,953       13,801       15,687       51,507             -
2.  Management 2/
Base cost                                      8,432        8,789        9,863       11,711       12,230       51,025             -
Physical contingencies                           115          119          137          166          172           709            -
Price contingencies                              427        1,380        2,705        4,722        6,664       15-898
Total cost                                     8,974       10,288       12,705       16,599       19,066       67,632             -
3.  Staff Housing and Offices 3/
Base cost                                     4,578         5,589        9,633        3,313            -       23,113           25
Physical contingencies                           687          838        1,445          497            _        3,467            25
Price contingencies                              527        2,5          6,470        3.432            -       12,486            25
Total cost                                     5,792        8,484       17,548        7,242                    39,066            25
4.  Boats. Vehicles Snd Eguipment 4/
Base cost                                     16,695        2,390        1,669           31           17       20,803            75
Physical contingencies                         2,504          359          250            5            3        3,120            75
Price contingencies                              960          426          519           14           11        1.930            75
Total cost                                    20,159        3,175        2,438           50           31       25,853            75
9. Operating Cost 5/
Base cost                                      4,105        7,565        8,610       10,171       10,912       41,362            40
Physical contingencies                           462        1,095        1.162        1,205         1,220        5,144           40
Price contingencies                              242        1,474        2,841        5,004        7,316        16,877           40
Total Cost                                     4,809       10,134       12,613       16,380       19,448       63,383           40
6.  Plantation Trial Units 6/
Base cost                                      5,588          775          775          775           775       8,688            41
Physical contingencies                           748           86           86           86            86        1 ,092          41
Price contingencies                              356          147          256          383           524        1,348           41
Total                                          6,697        1,008        1.117        1.244         1,185       11,128           41
7.  Public Relations and Training 7/
Base cost                                      2,765           47           47           47            47        2,953           63
Physical contingencies                           413             5            5            5            5          433           63
Price contingencies                              159            8            14          21            28          230           63
Total cost                                     3,337           60            66          73            80        3,616           63
8. Remote Sensing 8 /
Base cost                                      3,043        7,544        1,484        1,457        1,452         9,97S           78
Physical contingencies                           216          162            54          54            54          540           78
Price contingencies                              163          419          415          492          603         2,092           78
Total cost                                     3,422        3.125        1,953        1,998        2,108        12,607           78
9. Total Proiect
Base cost                                     50,343       33,822       39,915       37,375       35,637      197,072            26
Physical contingencies                         5,145        2,664        3,139        2,018        1,540       14,506            26
Price contingencies                            3,091        6,865       14,869       18 000         20,629     63,595            26
Grand Total                                   58,579       43,351       57.923       57,393       57,806      275,173            26
1/  For details see Tables 10 and 11.
2/  For details see Tables 6 and 7.
3/ For details see Tables 12 and 13.
4/  For details see Tables 14 and 15.
5/  For details see Tables 11, 13 and 15.
6/  For details see Tables  16 and 17.
7/  For details see Table  18 and 19.
8/  For details see Table 20.
December 17, 1979



BANGLADESHI
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Summary of Contingencies and Taxes
(Taka Thousand)
Physical Contingencies                   Price Contingencies                Taxes and
Local    Foreign        Total          Local    Foreign        Total           Duties
A.  Plantation Development
1.  Establishment 1/                         -           -           -         12,734            -      12,734                 -
2.  Management 2/                          709           -         709         15,898            -       15,898             946
3.  Staff housing and offices            2,600         867       3,467          9,365       3,121       12,486            7,813
4.  Boats, vehicles and equipment        2,276         844       3,120            926       1,004         1,930           6,570
5.  Operating cost                       4,372         772       5,144         14,345       2,532        16,877          13,366
B.  Support Services
4-
6.  Plantation trial unit                  644         448       1,092             795         553        1,348           2,491
7.  Public relations and training          160         273         433              85         145          230             485
8.  Remote sensing                         263         277         540            460        1,632        2,092           1,979
Total project                       11,024       3,486      14,506         54,608       8,987       63,595           33,650
Contingency Factors
Price Contingencies            Civil Works                   Others
Year 1                      0.100                       0.050
Year 2                      0.320                       0.155
Year 3                      0.584                       0.271
Year 4                      0.901                       0.398
Year 5                      1.281                      0.537
Physical Contingencies           0.150                       0.150
1/ No physical contingencies included since a 3% annual mortality rate is assumed (see Table 10).
2/  Only physical contingencies for staff uniforms and overhead cost included.
December 17, 1979



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH                                   Table 3
Pa' 1
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
1/
Annual Cost- per Staff Category
Annual Salary/Wages
Nos.         in '000 Taka per person
Headquarters - Plantation Circle
Conservator of forests                                      1                  39.00
Deputy conservator of forests (direction)                   1                  27.75
Head clerk                                                  2                   9.95
Clerk                                                       4                   9.05
Accountant                                                  2                   9.65
Assistant-cum-typist                                        8                   6.80
Serang                                                      3                  11.85
Engine driver                                               3                   9.95
Seacunny                                                    3                   4.95
Lasker                                                      3                   4.40
Jeep/car driver                                             4                   7.60
Wireless operator                                           2                   6.80
Wireless mechanic                                            1                  6.80
Surveyor                                                    2                   6.15
Office peon                                                 4                   4.40
Orderly peon                                                2                   4.40
Sweeper                                                     2                   4.40
Night guard                                                 2                   4.40
Draughtsman                                                 1                   9.95
Divisional Headquarters2/
Deputy conservator of forests (DFO)                         1                  27.75
Assistant conservator of forests                            2                  18.00
Head clerk                                                  1                   9.95
Clerk                                                       2                   9.05
Accountant                                                  1                   9.65
Assistant-cum-typist                                        4                   6.80
Serang                                                      3                  11.85
Engine driver                                               3                   9.95
Seacunny                                                    1                   4.95
Lasker                                                      3                   4.40
Speed boat driver                                           2                   6.80
Jeep/car driver                                             2                   7.60
Wireless mechanic                                           1                   6.80
Wireless operator                                           2                   6.80
Surveyor                                                    1                   6.15
Office peon                                                 2                   4.40
Orderly peon                                                1                   4.40
Sweeper                                                     1                   4.40
Night guard                                                 1                   4.40
Draughtsman                                                 1                   9.95
1/ Based on 1979/80 salaries and wages
2/ Project would include four Divisional Headquarters



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH                                  Table 3
Page 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Annual CostL/per Staff Category
Annual Salarv/Wagpe
Nos.        in ?000 Taka per person
Plantation Units
- Operation Range2/
Ranger (range forest officer)                              1                 13.00
Deputy ranger (forester)                                   3                  9.00
Forest guard                                              12                  4.75
Plantation Mali                                            6                  4.40
Speed boat driver                                          1                  6.80
Boatman                                                   16                  4.40
Range orderly peon                                         1                  4.40
- Maintenance and Management Range3/
Ranger (range forest officer)                              1                 13.00
Deputy ranger (forester)                                   3                  9.00
Forest guard                                               6                  4.75
Boatman                                                    8                  4.40
Range orderly peon                                         1                  4.40
Plantation Trial Unit
Deputy conservator of forests (silviculturist)               1                 27.75
Assistant conservator of forests (soil scientist)            1                 18.00
Junior research officer (statistician)                       1                 15.00
Research ranger                                              4                 13.00
Forester                                                     8                  9.00
Accountant                                                   1                  9.65
Assistant-cum-typist                                         2                  6.80
Office peon                                                  2                  4.40
Orderly peon                                                 1                  4.40
Sweeper                                                      1                  4.40
Night guard                                                  1                  4.40
1/ Based on 1979/80 salaries and wages.
2/ 15, 15, 20, 25 and 25 operation ranges assumed in years 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of
the project, respectively.
3/ 16, 19, 22, 27 and 31 maintenance and management ranges assumed in years
1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the project, respectively.
December 11, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Field Staff Requirements
Year 1                          Year 2                           Y            3                  Year 4                          Year 5
Main-    New                   Main-    New                    Main-    New                   Main-    New                    Main-    New
tenance  Plant.   Total        tenance  Plant.   Total         tenance  Plant.   Total        tenance  Plant.   Total         tenance  Plant.   Total
Area (acres)                   78,000   15,000   93,000    93,000   15,000  108,000           108,000  20 ---  128,000    128,000  25,000  153,000            153,000  25,000  178,000
Ranger                              16        15        31         19        15         34          22       20        42           27       25        52           31       25        56
Deputy ranger                       48        45        93         57        45        102          66       60       126           81       75       156           93       75       168
Forest guard                        96       180       276        114       180        294         132      240       372          162      300       462          186      300       486
Plantation mali                      -        90        90          -        90         90           -      120       120            -      150       150            -      150       150
Boatman                           128        240       368        152       240       392          176      320       496         216       400       616          248      400       648
Speed boat driver                    -        15        15          -        15         15           -       20        20            -       25        25            -       25        25
Range orderly peon                  16        15        31         19        15         34          22       20        42           27       25        52           31       25        56
Night guard                         16        15        31         19        15         34          22       20        42           27       25        52           31       25        56
Total field staff                 320        615       935        380       615       995          440      820    1,260           540   1,025      1,565         620   1,025       1,645
Total
Additional staff    Existing Staff                                                                                                                                                         Incremental Staff Required           .
required:            197980Years 1- 
Ranger                  29                               2                               3                              8                              10                               4            27
Deputy ranger          128                               -                               -                              -                              28                              12            40
Forest guard           300                                                                                             72                              90                              24           186
Plantation mali        129                               -                               -                              -                              21                               -            21
Boatman                 85                             283                              24                            104                             120                              32           563
Speed boat driver        9                               6                               -                              5                               5                               -            16
Range orderly peon    29                                 2                               3                              8                              10                               4            27
Night guard              6                              25                               3                              8                              10                               4            50
Total                                                  318                              33                            205                             294                              80           930
December 11, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Phasing of Axn-sal Staff Recruitment and Coat
Existing Staff 1979/80              -------_        -----------          ---------- Total Staff Required._____________________-_________________________________________
Anrtual Salary/                            Year 1                         Year 2                         Year 3                        Year 4                        Year 5
Wages in                Cost                          Cost                         Cost                           Cost                          Cost                           Cost
Staff Category           Nos.      '000 Taka j/          Tk'000       Nos.   Addns.   Tk'000    Nos.  Addns.   Tk'000             Nos.  Addns.    Tk'000        Nos.   Addns.   Tk'000        Nos.   AdIns.   TW'OO0
Conservator of forests          1            39.00             39.00         1        -      39.00         1       -      39.00          1      -        39.00         1        _       39.00        1        -        39.00
Deputy cons.of forests          5            27.75            138.75        5              138.75         5       -    138.75           5              138.75          5        -      138.75        5        -      138.75
Assistant cons.of forests   4                 18.00            72.00         8        4    144.00          8       -    144.00           8       _      144.00         8        _      144.00        8         -      144.00
Head clerk                      4              9.95            39.80        6         2      59.70        6        -      59.70         6       -        59.70         6        -       59.70        6        -        59.70
Clerk                          22              9.05           199.10       22         -    199.10         22       _    199.10          22              189.10        22        -      189.10       22         -      189.10
Accountant                      5              9.65            48.25        6         1      57.90         6       -      57.90          6       -       57.90         6        -       57.90        6         -       57.90
Assistant-cum-typist            5              6.80            34.00        12        7      81.60       18        6    122.40         24        6      163.20        24        -      163,20       24        -       163.20
Serang                         11            11.85            130.35       13         2    154.05        15        2    177.75         15        -      177.75        15        _      177.75       15        -       177.75
Engine driver                  11              9.95           109.45       13         2    129.35        15        2    149.25         15        _      149.25        15        _      149.25       15        -       149.25
Seacunny                        6              4.95            29.70         7        1      34.65         7       -      34.65          7       -       34.65         7        _       34.65        7         -       34.65
Lasker                         11              4.40            48.40        13        2      57.20       15        2      66.00        15        _       66.00        15        -      190.40       15         -      190.40
Speed boat driver               9              6.80            61.20       15         6    102.00        23        8    156.40         28        5      190.40        33        5      224.40       33         -      224.40
Jeep/car driver                 9              7.60            68.40       10         1      76.00       12        2     91.20         12        -       91.20        12        -       91.20       12        -        91.20
Wireless operator              15              6.80           102.00        15        -    102.00         15       -    102.00           5       _      102.00         5        _      102.00        5         -      102.00
Wireless mechanic               5              6.80            34.00         5        -      34.00         5       -      34.00          5       -       34.00         5        -        34.00       5         -       34.00
Surveyor                        4              6,15            24.60        6         2      36.90         6       -      36.90         6        _       36.90         6        _       36.90        6         -       36.90
Office peon                    14              4.40            61.60        14        -      61.60        14       -      61.60         14       _       61.60        14        _       61.60       14         -       61.60
Orderly peon                   39              4.40           171.60       42         3    184.80        43        1    189.20         52        9      228.80        62       10      272.80       66         4      290.40
Sweeper                         5             4.40             22.00        6         1      26.40        6        -     26.40          6        -       26.40         6        -       26.40        6        -        26.40
Night gnard                     6              4.40            26.40         6        -      26.40         6       -      26.40          6       -       26.40         6        -       26.40        6         -       26.40
Ranger                         29             13.00           377.00        31        2    403.00        34        3    442.00         42        8      546.00        52       10      676.00       56         4      728.00
Deputy ranger                128               9.00         1,152.00      128         -  1,152.00       128        -  1,152.00        128        -   1,152.00        156       28   1,404.00       168        12   1,512.00
Forest guard                 300               4.75        1,429.75       300         -  1,429.75       300        -  1,429.75        372      72   1,767.00         462       90   2,194.50       486        24   2,308.50
Plantation malt              129               4.40           567.60      129         -    567.60       129        -    567.60        129        -      567.60       150       21      660.00      150         -      660.00
Boatman                        91              4.40           400.40      368       277  1,619.20       392       24  1,724.80        496     104   2,182.40         616      120   2,710.40       648       32   2,857.25
Draughtsman                     5              9.95            49.75         5        -      49.75         5       -      49.75          5       -       49.73         5        -       49.75        5         -       49.75
Total Annual Cost of
Employment                   873                  -         5,437.10    1.186       313  6,966.70    1,236        50  7,26850       1,442     206   8,134.50    7.726         284   9,642.50   1,802          76  10,074.90
1/ Based on 1979/80 salaries and wages.
December 11, 1979



- 49 -.
ANNEX i
BANGLADESH                                 Table 6
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Summary of Existing and Incremental Staff Cost
------------Cost in '000 Taka------------
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Total
1.  Base cost total staff-/                     7,664  7,996  8,949 10,607 11,083  46,298
2.  Base cost incremental staff-/               1,683  2,015  2,968  4,626  5,102  16,394
3.  Price contingencies total staff-Y             383  1,239  2,421  4,217  5,955  14,216
4.  Price contingencies incremental staff1'        84    312    803  1,839  2,741   5,779
5.  Total staff cost (1 + 3)                    8,047  9,235 11,370 14,824 17,038  60,514
6.  Total incremental staff (2 + 4)             1,767  2,327  3,771  6,465  7,843  22,173
1/ Total annual staff cost as shown in Table 5 increased by 10% to adjust to
1980/81 costs.
2/ Assuming an annual salary/wage increase of 10%.
December 11, 1979



ANNEX 1
Table 7
- 50 -
BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
Staff Uniforms and Overhead Cost -
(Taka thousand)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5          Total
A. Staff Uniforms 2/
- Foresters                     (128)   64  (128)   64   (128)   64   (156)   78   (168)   84               354
- Other staff                   (787)  319  (821)  328   (997)  399  (1228)  491  (1260)  504              2041
Sub-Total                383          392            463           569            588        2395
B.  Overhead Cost -/                       348          363           407            482           504        2104
Total (1979/80 Prices)        731          755           870           1051          1092        4499
1.  Total Base Cost 4/                     768          793           914            1104          1147       4726
(June 1980 Prices)
2.  Physical Contingencies
at 15%                                115          119            137           166             172        709
Sub-Total                883          912           1051          1270           1314        5435
3.  Price Contingencies4-/                  44          141           284            505           709        1683
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)                     927         1053          1335           1775          2028        7116
of which Taxes and Duties             154          159            183           221            224         946
1/  Figures in brackets are nunber of staff in each year.
2/  At Taka 500 per year for foresters and Taka 400 per year for other ranks.
3/ Overhead expenses such as office electricity, telephone, postal charges and
office materials estimated at 5% of total cost of employment given in Table 5.
4/  10% annual increase in overhead and uniform cost assumed.
December 17, 1979



-51-                                      ANNEX 1
Table 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Keora-Cost of Plantation Establishment, Maintpnann-o, Prntetipon
Cost per Single Operation            Total
Material        Labor              Cost/Acre
-----------Tk------------
Plantation Establishment
-Surveying                              -           0.12               0.12
-Marking and line cutting               -1/         7.20               7.20
-Planting                          175.26-        120.00            295.26
-Replanting                         28.40          36.00              64.40
Sub-total                         203.66         163.32            366.98
Plantation Maintenance
-Beating-up j/                      28.40          36.00              64.40
Plantation Thinning3/
-Felling                                -         120.00            120.00
-Extraction and stacking                -          60.00             60.00
Sub-total                              -         180.00            180.00
Plantation Protection
-Watching                               -           0.30              0.30
Total                                232.06         379.62             611.68
1/ Production cost of seedlings.
2/ At age 2 only.
3/ At age 9 only.
December 12, 1979



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
BANGLADESH                                  Page 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Baen-Cost of Plantation Establishment. Maintenance and Protection
Cost per Single Operation             Total
Material        Labor               Cost/Acre
-----------Tk----
Plantation Establishment
-Surveying                            -            0.12               0.12
-Marking and line cutting             -            7.20               7.20
-Sowing                           38.601!         60.00              98.60
-Re-sowing                        19.30           36.00              55.30
Sub-total                       57.90          103.32              161.22
Plantation Maintenance
-Beating-up 2/                    19.30           36.00              55.30
3/
Plantation Thinning-
-Felling                              -         120.00              120.00
-Extraction and stacking              -           60.00              60.00
Sub-total                            -         180.00              180.00
Plantation Protection
-Watching                             -            0.30                0.30
Total                               77.20          319.62              396.82
/  Production cost of seeds.
2/ At age 2 only.
31 At age 9 only.
December 12, 1979



9ANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Keora - Plantation Model, Direct Costs and Yields
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11 Year 12 Year 13 Year 14 Year 15 Year 16 Year 17
---------_------------------------------------------------------ Tk/Acre -- -------- -- -- ------ --- ---- ------- ----- -- --- ----------------------~~ ~
Operat ion
Surveying                                0.12          -         -         -         -         -        -        -          -         -          -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Marking and line cutting                 7.20               -         -         -         -         -        -              -         -          -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Planting                              295.26                -         -         -         -        -         -        -          -         -          -         -         -             -         -         -
Replanting                              64.40               -         -         -         -         -        -        -          -         -          -         -         -             -         -         -
Boating up                                  -    64.40                -         -        -         -        -         -          -         -          -        -         -              -         -         -
Felling                                      -         -         -         -         -         -        -        -   120.00           -          -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Extraction and stacking                                                   -                                      -     60.00          -          -         -        -                   -         -         -
Watching  3/                             0.30
Total costs                         367.28      64.40          -         -        -         -         -       -   180.00
Cumulative costs                    367.28    431.68  431.68  431.68   431.68  431.68  431.68  431.68   611.68   611.68    611.68   611.68   611.68   611.68   611.68   611.68   611.68
Yields (cu ft):
Pulpwood 2/                               -                                                                           025                     -                                                       164
Fuelwood                                        -         -         -        -         -              -         -  1,025           -          -         -         -         -         -         -  2,164
Tirnber                                   -          -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -          _         _         _         _         _         _     455
MAI: 122.4 cu ft/ac
Metric Equivalents
Yields (m3):
Pulpwood 2/                                                                      -                                             - _  _  _  _  _  - _   _  _  _  _  _         _         _
Fuelwood                                        -         -         -             -         -         -         -      72          -          -         -         -         -         -         -     152
Timber                                    -          --                                                                                                                                                 32
MAI: 8.6 m3/ha
1/  See Table 8, page 1.                                                                                                                                                                                           n I
2/  Marketable fuelwood can be used as pulpwood.  Mangrove pulpwood requirements are estimated at 3.5 million  cu ft p.a. in vears 9 - 11 of the project,
4.0 million cu ft p.a. in years 12 and 13, and 5.6 million cu ft p.a. in years 17 - 21 of the project.
3/ After plantation establishment no special watchmen will be employed, but forest guards will protect their "beats".
December 12, 1979



BANGLADES
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Baen - Plantation Model, Direct Costs and Yields
Year I Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 9 Year 10 Year 11 Year 12 Year 13 Year 14 Year 15 Year 16 Year 17
-------------------------------------------------------Tk/Acre--------------------------------- --------------- ------- -------
Operation
Surveying                           0.12         -       -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -      -        -        -        -       -        -
Marking and line cutting            7.20         -       -        -        -       -        -         -       -        -      -        -        -        -       -        -
Sowing                             98.60         -       -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -      -        -        -       -        -        -
Re-sowing                          55.30         -       -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -      -        -        -       -        -        -
Beating-up                             -    55.30        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -      -        -        -       -        -        -
Felling                                -         -       -        -        -       -        -   120.00        -        -      -        -        -        -       -        -
Extraction and stacking                -         -       -        -        -       -        -    60.00        -        -      -        -        -
Watching  3/                        0.30                  -                                                   -        -      -        -
Total costsl/                   161.52    55.30        -        -       -        -        -   180.00        -        -      -        -        -        -       -       -
Cumulative costs                161.52   216.83  216.82  216.82  216.82  216.82  216.82   396.82  396.82  396.82 396.82  396.82  396.82  396.82  396.82  396.82
Yields (cu ft):
Pulpwood 2!                          -         -
Fuelwood                                                                                  -   1,025         -        -      _        -        _       -        -  2,164
Timber                               -         -       -        -       -        -        -       -         -        -      -        -        -       -        -    455
MAI: 122.4 cu ft/ac
Metric Equivalents
Yields (m3):
Pulpwood 2/                          -         -       -        _       _        _        _       _         -        _      -        _        _       _        _       _
Fuelwood                             _         -       _        _       _        _        _      72         -        -      -        _        -       -        -    152
Timber                               -         -       -        -       -        -        -                 -        -      -        -        -        -       -      32
MAY: 8.6 m3/ha
1/  See Table 8,page 2.
2/  Marketable fuelwood can be used as pulpwood.  Mangrove pulpwood requirements are estimated at 3.5 million Cu ft p.a. in years 9 - 11 of the project,                             m a, z
a    c
4.0 million cu ft p.a. in years 12 and 13, and 5.6 million cu ft p.a. in years 17 - 21 of the project.
3/ After plantation establishment no special watchmen will be employed, but forest guards will protect their "beats".
December 12, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Phasing and Cost of Ne- Plantation Estoblishnent
Year I                      Year 2                       Year 3                      Year 4                         Year 5                        Total
Acreage          Cost       Acreage          Cost        Acreage          Cost        Acreage           Cost        Acreage          Cost         Acreage          Cost
-000' Acres-   -Tk '000-  -000' Acres-  -1k '000-  -000' Acres-  -Tk '000-   -000' Acres-  -Tk '000-  -000' Acres-  -Tk '000-   -000' Acres-  -Tk '000-
Keora (80% of total)                        12.0           4,407         12.0           5,180          16.0         6,649           20.0          8,376         20.0           8,634          80.0            33,246
Baen (207. of total)                         3.0             185          3.0             657          4.0            812            5.0          1,029          5.0           1,084          20.0            4,061
Total annual acreage 1/
and cost 2/ (1979/80 prices)              15.0          4,892         15.0           5,831          20.0          7,461           25.0          9,405         25.0           9,718         I00.0           37,307
1. Base cost 2/
(June 1980 prices)                          -          5,137            -           6,123             -          7,834              -          9,875            -         10,204              -           39,173
2. Price contingencies 3!                      -             257            -             949             _         2,119               -         3,926            -           5,483              _          12,734
3. Total establishment cost (I + 2)            -           5,394            -           7,072             _         9,953               -        13,801            -          15,687             -           51,907
1/  Assuming an annual mortality cats of 3% from year I to year 9 and 1.6P after-ards
2/ rlalr,,l.tod from p-r acre cost in Table 9 and acreage in Table 10.
3/ 10% annual increase in plantation cost assumed.
Decenber 12, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Phasing and Management Cost of Existing Plantations
A.  Existing Plantations:  Age at Beginning of Project-
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    11    12    13    14
____________________---------- 000' Acres-----------------------------
Keora                          12.0 12.2  8.9 11.8  9.0  3.6  1.1  0.2  0.4  0.7   0.2   0.7   1.2   0.2
Baen                            3.0  3.0  2.2  2.9  2.3  0.9  0.3  0.0  0.1  0.2   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.1
Total area of each age         15.0 15.2 11.1 14.7 11.3  4.5  1.4  0.2  0.5  0.9   0.3   0.9   1.5   0.3             1
LI'
B. Management  Cost of Existing Plantations
------------------------------ Taka '000 -----------------------------
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Total
Keora                              809         198          648        1,620       2,124        5,399
Baen                              166           54          169          414          522       1,325
Total cost-/                       975         252          817        2,034       2,646        6,724
(1979/80 prices)
1. Base cost-/                  1,024          265          858        2,136       2,778        7,060
(June 1980 prices)
2. Price contingenc 3/              51          41          232          849       1,493        2,667
3. Total management
cost (1 + 2)                 1,075          306        1,090       2,985        4,271        9,727
1/  Assuming the project begins July 1980.
2/  Calculated from per acre cost in Table 9 and acreage in Table 11.
3/  10% annual increase in management  cost assumed.
December 12, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Construction-Cost Staff Housing and Offsces 1/
2/
Building     Area       Cost per                             Annual Cost
Staff Category                         Standard    (sq ft)    Building          -------------(Taka Thousand)------------------------------
(Tk'000)        Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Total      F.E. in %
Assistant cons. of forests            Permanent      1,200        240       (4)  480    (2)  480             -           -           -         960          21
Head clerk                            Semi-perman.  1,000         125       (2)  250             -           -           -           -         250          26.
Assistant-cum-typist                      "            600         75       (9)  675    (6)  450             -           -           -       1,125          26
Accountant                                "            600         75       (1)   75             -           -           -           -          75          26
Serang                                    "          1,000        125       (4)  500             -           -           -           -         500          26
Engine driver                             "            800        100       (4)  400             -          -            -           -         400          26
Seacunny                                  ,            200         25       (1)   25             -          -            -           -          25          26
Lasker                                                 200         25       (4)  100             -           -           -           -         100          26
Speed boat driver                         "            300         38      (14)  532    (5)  190   (5)  190              -           -         912          26
Jeep/car driver                                        600         75       (3)  225            -           -            -           -         225          26
Surveyor                                  "            600         75       (2)  150            -           -            -           -         150          26
Orderly peon                              "            200         25       (4)  100    (9)  225  (10)  250   (4)  100               -         675          26
Sweeper                                   "            200         25       (1)   25             -           -           -           -          25          26
Ranger                                    ,          1,000        125       (5)  625    (8)1,000  (10)1,250   (4)  500               -       3,375          26
Deputy ranger                             "          1,000        125              -            -  (28)3,500  (12)1,500              -      5,000           26
Forest guard                              "            300         38              -   (72)2,736  (90)3,420  (24)  912               -       7,068          26
Plantation mali                       Temporary        200          7              -             -  (21)  147            -           -         1-47          -                          _
Total annual construction cost(1979/80 prices)                             (56)4,162  (102)5.081 (164)8.757  (44)3.012               -     21.012           25
1.  Base cost (June 1980 prices) 3/                                            4,578        5,589       9,633       3,313            -     23,113           25
2.  Physical contingencies at 15%                                                687          838       1.445         497            -      3,467
Sub-total                                                                  5,265        6,427      11,078       3,810           -      26,580
3.  Price contingencies 3/                                                       527       2,057        6.470       3,432            -      12,486
4.  Total (I + 2 + 3)                                                          5,792        8,484      17,548       7,242            -      39,066
Of which taxes and duties                                                  1,158        1,697       3,510       1,448            -      7,813
1/ Buildings for PTU, FRTC and Sylhet forest institute not included (See Tables 16 and 18).
2/  Figures in brackets refer to additional number in each year.
3/  20% annual increase in cost of building assumed.
December 12, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Maintenance Cost Staff Housing and Offices!'
----------------------Taka '000------------------------
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total    F.E. in %
New buildings2/                            -       125        277        535        625    1,562         25
Existing buildings3/                     221       221        221        221        221    1,105         25
Total operating cost                  221        346        498        756        846    2,667        25
(1979/80 prices)
1.  Base cost (June 1980 prices)         243       381        548        832        931    2,935         25              1
2.  Physical contingencies at 15%         36        57         82        125        140       440                        1
Sub total                           279        438        630        957     1,071    3,375
3.  Price contingencies4/                 28       200        368        862      1,372    2,830
4.  Total (1 + 2 + 3)                    307       638        998      1,819      2,443    6,205
Of which taxes and duties            61        128        200        364       489    1,242
1/  Excluding buildings for PTU and training.
2/ Estimated at 3% - p.a. of the cost of permanent and semi-permanent buildings.
3/ Estimated at 3% - p.a. of estimated value of Taka 7.37 million.
4/  20% annual increase in cost of building assumed.
December 12, 1979



BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
1/
Vessels, Vehicles and Equipment Capital Cost
(Taka thousand)
Unit Cost                   Year 1          Year 2           Year 3            Year 4           Year 5           Total           F.E. in %
2/
A. Boats
Launch                                              2,216.0 3/              (4)   8,864           -                -                                 -              8,864                87
Transport Vessel                                    2,806.0 3/              (1)   2,806           -                                                                  2,806               87
Motor Boat                                             75.0 3/             (13)   1,125       (8)    750    (4)   375               -                -              2,250                75
Country Boat I                                         50.0 3/             (15)      750      (5)    250           -                -                -               1,000               25
Country Boat II                                        25.0 3/             (15)      375    (10)    250    (5)   125                -                -                 750               20
Country Boat III                                        20.0 3/            (10)      200     (10)    200           -                -                 -                400                20
Sub-Total Boats (1979/80 Prices)                                               14,120             1,450            500            -                -             16,070                75
Base Coat Boats (June 1980 Prices)                                             14,826             1,523            525            -                -             16,874                75
B. Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                                 233.6 4/              (2)      465      (2)    465      (2)   465             -                -              1,395                60
Motorcycle  8/                                         23.2 5/              (6)      139            _         (1)    23             -                -                 162               69
Bicycle  8/                                             2.2                (31)       68      (3)       7    (8)    18        (10)  22          (4)   9                124               35
Sub-Total Vehicles (1979/80 Prices)                                                672              472            506             22               9             1,681                59
Base Cost Vehicles (June 1980 Prices)                                              706              496            531             23               9             1,765                59
C.  Equipment
9/
Water Drums                                              0.15 6/          (250)       38    (50)         8   (50)       8      (50)   8        (50)   8                 70                51
Wireless Sets - For Base Stations 10/                 725.0  7/            (10)      725            -               -                 _                -               725                75
Wireless Sets - For Rangers 11/                        115.0  7/            (3)      345       (3)    345      (5)   576              -                -             1,266                75
Sub-Total Equipment (1979/80 Prices)                                              1,108              353            584              8                8            2,061                 74
Base Cost Equipment (June 1980 Prices)                                            1,163              371            613              8                8            2,184                75
1.  Total Base Cost (June 1980 Prices  12/                                               16,695            2,390          1,669             31              17            20,803
2.  Physical Contingencies at 15%                                                         2,504              359            250              5               3             3,120
Sub-Total                                                                         19,199            2,749          1,919              36              20            23,923
3.  Price Contingencies  12/                                                                960              426            519             14              11             1,930
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)                                                                   20,159            3,175          2,438             50               31           25,853
of which taxes and duties                                                            5,452               594            509              9               6             6,570
1/  Figures and brackets are numbers in each year.
2/  Country Boat I - crew 7, plus 25 persons; Country Boat II - crew 5, plus 10 persons; Country Boat III - crew 3, plus 6 persons.
3/  Duty at 15% on imported items and sales tax at 20% on ex-factory cost.  Years 1 and 2 include 4 spare engines, year 3  two spare engines at Tk 37,500 each.
4/ Duty at 45% on imported items and sales tax at 20%.
5/  Duty at 25% '        "         "
6/  Duty at75%"                   " "            "
7/  Duty at 15%                   " " "
8/  Numbers in each year are based on replacement of vehicles already purchased and replaced after five years.
9/  Assuming that 20% of the original 250 would be replaced in each year.
10/  Five of the sets located at the DFO's offices and at Khulna and five sets on the four launches and the transport vessel.
11/  Numbers are on the basis of one set for four rangers; seven sets have already been purchased by the Forestry Department.
12/  10% annual increase in capital cost assumed.
December 19, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Vessels, Vehicles and Equipment Operating Cost 1/
(Taka Thousand)
Unit Cost        Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5          Total
A. Boats 2/
Launch 3/                                    602.4                  -   (4) 2,410       (4) 2,410      (4) 2,410      (4) 2,410           9,640
Transport vessel 3/                          781.0                  -   (1)   781       (1)   781      (1)   781      (1)   781           3,124
Motor boat                                     67.5       (15) 1,018  (25) 1,688    (30) 2,025    (30) 2,025    (30) 2,025                8,781
Country boat I                                  7.5       (15)   113  (20)   150   (20)   150   (20)   150    (20)   150                    713
Country boat II                                 3.8       (15)    57  (25)    95   (30)   114    (30)   114   (30)   114                    494
Country boat III                                2.4       (10)    24  (20)    48   (20)    48    (20)    48    (20)    48                   216
Sub-total boats                                               1,212        5,172          5,518          5,528          5,528         22,968
(1979/80 prices)
Base cost boats (June 1980 prices)                              1,273        5,431          5,804          5,804           5,804        24,116
B. Vehicles 4/
4 wheel drive                                  56.2        (6)   337   (6)   337        (6)   337      (6)   337      (6)   337           1,685
Motorcycle                                      5.4         (4)    38   (7)    38    (7)    38         (7)    38      (7)    38             190
Bicycle                                         0.3       (31)    12  (52)    16   (72)    22   (72)    22   (72)             22             94
Sub-total vehicles                                              387         391             397             397            397          1,969
(1979/80 prices)
Base cost vehicles (June 1980 prices)                             406          411             417            417            417          2,068
C. Equipment
Wireless sets for base stations 5/              3.6         (5)    18  (10)   36       (10)    36    (10)    36    (10)    36               162
Wireless sets for rangers 5/                    5.8       (10)    58  (13)   75        (18)   104    (18)   104    (18)   104               445
Sub-total equipment                                              76          111             140            140            140            607
(1979/80 prices)
Base cost equipment (June 1980 prices)                             80          117             147            147            147            638
1.  Total base cost (June 1980 prices) 6/                              1,759       5,959           6,368          6,368           6,368         26,822
2.  Physical contingencies at 15%                                        264          894             955            955            955          4.023
Sub-total                                                     2,023       6,853           7,323          7,323           7,323         30,845
3.  Price contingencies 6/                                               101       1,062           1,981           2,911          3,935          9,990
4.  Total cost (1 + 2 + 3)                                             2,124        7,915           9,304         10,234         11,258         40,835
Of which taxes and duties                                            531       1,979           2,326          2,559          2,815         10,210
1/  Figures in brakets are numbers in each year.
2/  Operating cost includes fuel and lubricant cost, maintenance and repair (10% of capital cost) and insurance (5% of capital cost)
3/  It is assumed that the launches and transport vessel, although paid for in year 1, would become operational only from year 2 onwards.                                        a x
4/  Operating cost includes fuel cost (at Taka 12 per gallon of diesel and Taka 30 per gallon of petrol), lubricant cost (at 20% of fuel
cost), spares cost (at 10% of capital cost), labor for servicing (at 7% of capital cost) and overhead cost (at 10% of the total of                                           _M
cost of fuel, lubricants, spares and labor for servicing).
5/  Repair and maintenance cost of wireless sets estimated at 5% of the capital cost.  The five base station sets for the boats
although purchased in year 1 are assumed to commence operating only in year 2. Operating costs include the already existing
seven wireless sets.
6/  10% annual increase in operating cost assumed.
December 19, 1979



BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
Existing Vessels and Vehicles Operating Cost-/
(Taka Thousand)
Unit
Cost           Year 1           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5       Total
A. Boats
Launch2/                           224                -                -               -                -                -          -
Motor Boat-                       67.5         (10)  675       (10)  675        (10)  675        (10)  675        (10)  675      3,375
Country Boat                       2.4        (50)  120        (50)  120        (50)  120        (50)  120        (50)  120         600
Sub-Total Boats                                    795             795              795              795              795      3,475
(1979/80 prices)
Base Cost Boats                                    835             835              835              835              835      4,175
(June 1980 prices)
B.  Vehicles-
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle             56.2          (4)  225        (2)  112                -                -                -         337
Motorcycle                         5.4          (1)    5        (1)    5                -                -                -          10
Bicycle                            0.3          (8)    2        (4)    1         (4)    1               -                -            4
Sub-Total Vehicles                                 232             119                1               -                -          351
(1979/80 prices)
Base Cost Vehicles                                 244             125                 1              -                -          370
(June 1980 prices)
1.  Total Base Cost-/                                1,079              960              836              835              835      4,545
2.  Physical Contingencies                             162              960              125              125              125        681
at 15%
Sub-Total                                     1,741            1,104              961              960              960      5,226
3.  Price Contingencies/                                62              171              260              382              516      1,391
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)                               1,303            1,275            1,221           1,342            1,476       6,617
Of which taxes and duties                          326              319             305              336              369      1,655
Figures in brackets are numbers in each year.
Will be repaired and used outside project area.
It is assumed that 10 out of the existing 17 will be kept in running condition.
Numbers in each year are based on replacement of vehicles after five years.
10% annual increase in operating cost assumed.                                                                                   x
January 3, 1980



ANNEX 1
- 62 --                                            Table 16
BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
Plantation Trial Unit Capital Cost -/
Cost per             Total Cost                      F.E.
Unit               in Year 1                        in
(Taka)            (Taka thousand)                    %
A.  Buildings 2/
- DCF's office, laboratory                 200/sq.ft.             (1)   320                      21
and Quarters
- ACF's Quarters                           200/sq.ft.             (1)   200                     21
- JRO's Quarters                           1251sq.ft.             (1)   125                      26
- Research Rangers office,
Laboratory and Quarters                  125/sq.ft.            (4)   500                      26
- Foresters' Quarters                      125/sq.ft.            (8) 1,000                      26
- Other PTU Staff Quarters                 1251sq.ft.             (7)   338                     26
Sub-Total Buildings  3/                                          2,483                      25
(1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Buildings                                                2,731                      25
(June 1980 Prices)
B.  Office and Laboratory Equipment@!                                     1,371                      51
(1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Office and Laboratory Equipment                             1,440                     51
(June 1980 Prices)
4'
C.  Vehicles -
- 4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                   232,600                (1)   233                      60
- Trailer                                   6,000                (1)      6                     35
- Motorcycles                              23,200                (4)    93                      69
Sub-Total Vehicles (1979/80 Prices)                                   332                     62
Base Cost Vehicles (June 1980 Prices)                                 349                     62
D.  Technical Assistance                      127,000                 (3)   381                    100
(Man/Months)(1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Technical Assistance                                          400                    100
(June 1980 Prices)
1.  Total Base Cost (June 1980 Prices) -/                                 4,903
2.  Physical Contingencies at 15% (excluding tech. assistance)              675
Sub-Total                                                          5,578
3.  Price Contingencies 5/                                                  318
4.  Total Cost  (1+2+3)                                                   5,896
of which taxes and duties                                             1,940
1/  Figures in brackets are rnurmbers in year 1.
2/  Office 400 sq.ft.; laboratory 200 sq.ft.; DCF, ACF, JRO, Research Ranger and Forester Quarters
1,000 sq.ft. each; Accountant and Typist quarters 600 sq.ft. each; guard quarters 300 sq.ft.;
peon and sweeper quarters 200 sq.ft. each.
3/  For staff categories, see Table 3, Page 2.
4/ For details of per unit capital cost, see Table 14.
5/ 10% annual increase in cost of equipment, vehicles and technical assistance, and 20% in
cost of buildings assumed.
6/  For details see Attachment 1.
December 16, 1979



- 63 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 17
BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
Plantation Trial Unit Operating Cost
(Taka thousand)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5        Total
A. Staff
- Cost of Employment -            230          230         230         230         230          1,150
- Staff Uniforms                     2           2           2           2            2            10
- Staff Travel Allowances          88           88          88          88           88           440
- Hire of Casual Labor             40           40          40          40           40           200
Sub-Total Staff               360         360         360         360          360         1,800
(1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Staff                 378         378         378          378         378         1,890
(June 1980 Prices)
B. Buildings and Equipment
- Building Maintenance-/           -            82          82          82           82           328
- Office Overhead 3/               12           12          12          12           12            60
- Laboratory and field             10           10          10          10          10             50
materials
Sub-Total Buildings            22104                  104         104          104           438
and Equipment 1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Buildings and          23         113         113          113         113           475
Equipment (June 1980 Prices)
C.  Vehicles 4/
- 4-wheel drive Vehicles           56           56          56          56           56           280
- Trailer                           1            1           1           1            1             5
- Motorcycles                      22           22          22          22          22            110
Sub-Total Vehicles             79          79          79           79          79           395
(1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Vehicles               83          83           83          83          83           415
(June 1980 Prices)
D.  Consultancy Assistance -/          191         191         191         191          191           955
(1979/80 Prices)
Base Cost Consultancy             201         201          201         201         201         1,005
Assistance (June 1980 Prices)
1.  Total Base Cost 6/                685          775         775         775          775         3,783
(June 1980 Prices)
2.  Physical Contingencies              73          86          86           86          86           417
at 15% (excluding consultancy
assistance and cost of employment)                                      _
Sub-Total                       758         861         861          861         861         4,202
3.  Price Contingencies 6/              38         147         256         383          524         1,318
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)                 796       1,008       1,117       1,244         1,385        5,550
of which Taxes and Duties          51         125          125         125          125           551
1/  From Table 3, Page 2.
2/  At 3 % of the cost of construction, from the year following completion.
3/ At 5% of the cost of employment of regular staff.
4/ For details, see Table 15.
5/ 6 man/weeks of consultancy per year at the rate of Taka 127,000 per man/month.
6/ 10% annual increase in staff, equipment, vehicles and consultancy assistance cost and
20% in building cost assumed.
December 16, 1979.



ANNEX 1
Table 18
- 64 -
BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
Public Relations and Training Capital Cost
Cost per                Total Cost               F.E.
Unit                       in                   in
(Taka)                   Year 1                   2
(Taka thousand)_
A. Buildings
- FRTC Chittagong -                            250,sq.ft.                   350                    21
(dormitory & bath house)
- Sylhet Forest Institute
(RFO Quarters)2/                             125/sq.ft.                  125                     26
Sub-Total Buildings (1979/80 Prices)                                     475                     22
Base Cost Buildings (June 1980 Prices)                                    523                    22
B. Equipment
- Public Relations (audio-visual equip.)4/                                  287                    50
- Training 3/                                                               990                    80
- Film on Mangrove Afforestation                                            436                    50
Sub-Total Equipment (1979/80 Prices)                                   1,713                     68
Base Cost Equipment (June 1980 Prices)                                 1,799                     68
C. Vehicles
- Minibuses (2)                       188,500                               377                    92
Sub-Total Vehicles (1979/80 Prices)                                       377                    92
Base Cost Vehicles (June 1980 Prices)                                     396                    92
1.  Total Base Cost (June 1980 Prices) -                                      2,718
2.  Physical Contingencies at 15%                                               408
Sub-Total                                                              3,126
3.  Price Contingencies -/                                                      156
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)                                                        3,282
of which taxes and duties -/                                                485
1/ 8 bedrooms each 150 sq.ft., bathhouse 200 sq.ft.
2/ RF0 Quarters 1,000 sq.ft.
3/ Training and laboratory equipment for FRTC (See Attachment 3), Chittagong, includes US$40,000 for training abroad.
4/ For details see Attachment 2.
5/ 10% annual increases in cost of equipment and vehicles and 20% of cost of buildings assumes.
6/ Equipment and minibuses for training are for educational purposes and not subject to duty and
sales tax.
December 16, 1979



ANNEX 1
Table 19
- 65 -
BANGLADESH
Mangrove Afforestation Project
Public Relations and Training Operating Cos__.
(Taka Thousand)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total
Cost of Employment -/             15         15         15         15         15           75
Materials(film,leaflets,etc.)   30           30         30          30         30         150
Total (1979/80 Prices)    45            45         45         45         45         225
1.  Total Base Cost    /          47         47         47         47         47         235
(June 1980 Prices)'
2.  Physical Contingencies         5          5          5          5          5          25
at 15% (without cost of
Employment)
Sub-Total                  52         52         52          52         52         260
3.  Price Contingencies            3          8         14         21         28          74
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)            55         60         66         73         80         334
of which taxes and duties   9             9          9          9          9          45
1/ Instructor (RFO) Svlhet Forest Institute.
2/ 10% annual increase in operating cost assumed.
December 16, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Cost of Remote Sensing and Aerial Photography
(Taka Thousand)
Items                              Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total    F.E. %
Purchase of tapes -/                   20       20        20        20       20        100       100
Computer processing 2/                288      288       288      288       288      1,440       100
Aircraft support services             240      240       240      240       240      1,200        50
Film products & other exp.            150      140        90       90        90        560        50
TA groundtruthing 3/                  250      250       250      250       250      1,250        90
BLP staff -/                           90       90        60       30        30        300         -
Aerial photography 5/               1,860    1,395       465      465       465      4,650        90
Total (1979/80 Prices)              2,898    2,423    1,413    1,383    1,383        9,500        78
1.  Total Base Cost 6/                  3,043    2,544    1,484    1,452    1,452        9,975        78
(June 1980 prices)
2.  Physical contingencies 7              216       162       54        54       54        540
Sub-total                3,259    2,706    1,538    1,506    1,506    10,515
3.  Price contingencies -                 163       419      415       492      603      2,092
4.  Total Cost (1+2+3)                  3,422    3,125    1,953    1,998    2,108    12,607
of which taxes & duties               791      594       198      198       198      1,979
1/ Six scenes to cover coast-line.
2/  To categorize vegetation,land accretion etc.
3/ 2 man-months p.a. consultancy at rate of Taka 125,000/MM.
4/ Officers delegated to this program (3 in years 1+2, 2 in year 3, 1 in years 4+5).
5/ Including aircraft rental, scanner rental, and cost of crew.
6/ 5% of increase from 79/80 pricet'.
7/  15t of aircraft rental assumed to cost -aka 3.6 milllion.
8/ Based on a 10% increase p.a.
January 7, 1980                                                                                             " '



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Table 21
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(in Million US$)
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year/Quarter                               Quarterly   Cumulative
1981/1                                                -            -
/2                                              0.1          0.1
/3                                              0.2          0.3
/4                                              0.4          0.7
1982/1                                              0.6          1.3
/2                                              0.8          2.1
/3                                              0.6          2.7
/4                                              0.6          3.3
1983/1                                              0.4          3.7
/2                                              0.5          4.2
/3                                              0.5          4.7
/4                                              0.6          5.3
1984/1                                              0.6          5.9
/2                                              0.6          6.5
/3                                              0.7          7.2
/4                                              0.6          7.8
1985/1                                              0.6          8.4
/2                                              0.6          9.0
/3                                              0.6          9.6
/4                                              0.6         10.2
1986/1                                              0.5         10.7
/2                                              0.3         11.0
January 18, 1980



-68-                               ANEY. l
Attachrent 1
Page 1
BANGLADSES
MANGROVE A FOR=TATION PROJECT
Plantation Trial Unit Equipment List 1/
Headquarters PTU at Barisal
Cost After
Total                     Duty and
Nunmber    C and F Cost    Customs   Sales Tax.
of Units    US      Tk'I0O    Duty         at 23>
Air conditioners              9        4,500      67.5      50          121.5
Dehumidifiers                  4       2,003      30.0      50           54.0
Office
Filing cabinet                 1         -         3.8      -             3.8
Office furniture                         -        15.0      -            15.0
'"pewr iter                    1         500       7.5       0            9.0
Desk calculator                2         500       7.5      75           15.8
Drawing Office
Yap chest                      1         -         7.5      -             7.5
Drawing table                  2         600       9.0      25           13.5
St'ereoscope                  2        1,000      15,0      25           22.5
Transf'erscope                 1       1,000      15.0      25           22.5
Planimeter                     1         250       3.8      25            5.6
laboratory
Top loading balance            1       1,000      15.0      75           31.5
Ref-rigerator                  1       1,000      15.0      50           27.0
Glassware                              1,C00      15.0      75           31.5
Hardware                               2,000      30.0      75           63.0
licroscope                     1       1,500      22.5      75           47.3
Books and xeroxing                     2,000      30.0       0           36.o
Air photo cover                        2t003      30.0       0           36.,
Field EqMiiment
Automatic level                1       1,000      15.0      75           22.5
Multiparameter current meter 1         5,000      75,0      75          157.5
Automatic tide recorders      4        4,000      60.0      75          126.0
Salinometer                   4        2,000      30.0      75           63.0



-69-                                  N~~ 
L^ttat chSl t 
PagPe 2
mruimrient for the Four Divisions
Cost After
Total                    Dtand
Number     C and F Cost    Customis  Sales Tax
of Units    USs -Lk I-O00    2 -t -    at 20,
OL fice
Office furniture                         -        40.0      -           40.0
Filing cabinet                 4         -        15.0      -            15.0
Desk calculator                4        1,000     15.0      75          31.5
IpaD chest                     4         -        30.0      -           30.0
Field
Planetable                     4         400       6.0      25           9.0
Tapes                          4         300       4.5      25           6.8
Field meteorological stations4         6,000      90.0      75         189.0
Surveying chains               8         790      11.9      25          17.9
Prismatic compass              A         280       4.2      25           6.3
Iyrpsometer                    4         540       8.1      75          17.0
Increment borer                8         480       7.2      25          10.8
Relascope                      2       1,020      15.3      25          23.0
Germination testing units    4            40       0.6      75           1.3
3otanical press                8           60      0.9      75            1.9
Sub-total                                  767.8               1,331.5
handling and delivery charges                                     39.9
Total Cost                                                     1,371.4
1/ At exchange rate 1:15
Source: Preparation Report, Septimber 1979



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH                                 Attachment 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Public Relations - Audio Visual Equipment
Cost per             Total          F.E.
Equipment List                                 Unit(Taka)         Cost in Year 1   in %
16 mm film projector & speaker                   44,000  (4)       176,000           48
Hand carried generator                           12,000  (4)        48,000           60
Slide projector (battery operated)                2,000  (4)         8,000           48
Screen                                            6,000  (4)        24,000           48
Overhead projector                                6,000  (4)        24,000           48
Blackboard and flannelgraph                          400  (4)        1,600          100
Slide filing cabinet                              1,300  (4)         5,200           48
Total Cost                              286,800           50
of Which taxes and duties                              142,500
January 7, 1980



- 7-i -                               £AMM  1
Ak"acIment 3
BA__CLu___                               Page 1
MANGROVE A- TTiaT ION PROJ-T
Detai ls of rainr  and  Laborator¶' Eauipnent
to be norcn&seci for ]Pores: 1azers Colleze, Chittagong 1/
Item                    quantityr       Unit Cost       Total Cost    TIotal Cost
Forest ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. (s)....
pE meter 0-14 pE                 1             120.46          120.46          1t807
D7ing oven                       1            177.69           177.69         2,670
Stereo-icrosoope lOx x 4x        3            34.35          1,045.05        15,675
Yor-c-icros_ope 3 obioctives    8              174.14        1,393.36         20,895
Vicroscope clide, flat         500               2.40/100       12.00            180
Microcope clide, depression  100               4.80/12         40.00           600
Cover slider                     5 packs        0.75/pk          3.75            60
Prepared slides for Eubject      1 et        L.Pa&.           U.p.a.           . p.a.
X1i cscope slide box            20               1.10           22.00            330
Kicro3ocpe slide cabinet         2             105.27          210.54          3,165
Plant press                     20              17.21          34420          5,160
EP-7barium cabinet         (locally constr.)    -                -              -
Dissecting set                  20              37.62          752.40        11,280
Sieving outfit                   2 sets         15.66           31.32           465
Soil auger                       1             35.22            35.22           525
30 a measure tape                2             24.67            49.34           735
'nerometer, mercury 10-250°C   5               2.70            13,50           210
Soil test kit                    1             40.40            40.40           600
Tfest t-abe rack                 5              12.21           61.05           915
Hiorotoe                         1             391.50          391.50         5,880
Yicrotme (hand)                  1              16.76           16.76            255
Gfr-ainatiocn tester             1              7.76             7.76           120
Cork stoppers (3 sizes)          1 pack each   12.00            36.00           540
20             11.45/12         19.00           285
Gra;na.ted oylinfer (1 ml)       5              1.90             9.50           150
Grricwated cylind.er (2 ml)      3              3.51            10.53           165
Rec,Or for section stting        5              5.41            27.05           405
Tcst tubes 125X12 c              5 packs         2 40/p k       12.00            180
i'la.rks (1 set eachz of 4 sizes)  5 (corxp.sets) r 1.03/set    55.15           825
Fcnnel                           1 set          15.o8           15.08           225
Watch glass                     10               3. 10/10        3.10             45
Pir,ettes                       10 sets         4.93/set        49.80           750
P-tri dish                     100              0 85/10          8.50           120
vac'o,:n/preas pmp               1            250.56           250.56         3,765
sIranspirmtor apparatus          1              11.80           11.80            180
Germnination chamber             1             77.66            77.66         1,170
0crinator  (el ctric)            1            419.75           419.75         6,300
Ca-sbridige seed counters 15 cm) 10           300 00           30000          4,500
Cnbri.dge seed councers 23 cm) 10             3                  0
Comsu-e.blc stores                          2,500.00                         37,;z00
8?573.78       128,607
F'orest 2nto10olo2
liat                            20              24.88           49.76           750
Collection bottle                4 doz.          3.65           18.25            270
Vie12 and bmng                  20              7.53             7.53            120
Night lamp oollector             2             57*42           114.84  -      1,725
12 Volt auto battery             1             66.28            66.28           990
Pattery charge                   1             191.34          191.34         2,865
rilling jar   -                 20              10.80           10.80            165
Mounting boards                 20               9.95            9.95 g/         150
Insect collection bcz           20             25.50           510.00         7,650
Pins                            25 packets      0.44/packet    11.00             165
Dissecting tray                 20               3.45            3.45 -/         45
Dissecting pins                  I packet        3.00            3.00            45
Forceps                         20              5.30           106.00          1,590
j No price available bcanuse of undefined content of slide paokage.
NT-o patterrLs parc>aaed - rest copied locally.



- 72 -
iiSRj 1
7t acme'nt 3 (Cont.)
Page 2
Its cm                   aantitv      Unit Cost      TIot6l Cort      Total Co,&
?ore&. at cnoloia  (ctd)
Lsvae Coe                     10             31.72          317.20         4,775
Die-play Jcr                  15             10.40           156.00        2,340
Eand lns                     20              8.00           160.00        2,4D0
Slidee                        20 b=oes        2.40           48.00           720
Cover slips                   10 packots      1.09           10.90           165
Slide cabinet                  1            105.27          105.27         1,575
Kicrosoope ulide bar            1             6.40            6.40             90
Bal6em                         1 bottle       2.20            2.20            30
Hand tallc>! counter           4             13.22           52.88           795
In8ect Eapirator               1              4.60            4.60            75
Incubator                      1            417.91          417.91         6,270
Compreaion sprayer             4             13.95           55.80           840
prmai.ug  r, care              4             36.40           145.60        2,190
Spade                          7              8.65           60.55           915
Garden fork                    4              8.85           35.40           525
Rodels                          1           414.00          414.00            621
Cbarts: major ag. & forestr,r
pests                   1             11.50           11.50           180
-  major eg. & forestry
beneficial innects      1             11.50           11.50           180
-  inect ordere            1             11.50           11.50           180
-  insBot L/P              1             11.50           11.50           180
-  insqiut Itmee to crops
&nd livoutomk           1             11.50           11.50           180
-  LIe_t damaLee to vtored
proencts and tinber     1             11.5)          11.50            180
mine. C * SUmI es                              -            560.00         8,400
ConcU.b)e store.e                              -            80.00
Total                                  4;al3t 6_ 8,4
3KiarCorotr 0-25 m             2             17.33           34.66           525
Moisture ts-ter                1            213.88          213.88          3,210
Seed Scoop                     5              1.93            9.65           150
Scale bm t-]rpe                1             80.67           80.67         1,215
Weights ECr sCv1e              1             29.06           29.06           435
Band P-aMI=cg o"w             10              5.75           57.50           870
Pole pr;=i;Z tw                5             14.60           73-00         1,095
lad-der, alwinium to 6.4 x     2             76.31          152.62         2,295
Yisc. unC-cs                                   -             150.00        2,250
Conable GsOrea                                 -            2500075
!Potaa ,11O
?ocket cOAv-,pEo              15              440            66.00           990
S,'e~-or cb1im 50 m            3             96.11          288.33         4,320
anging poles                  20             14.37          287.40         4,305
Steel tape regair kit          2             54.72          109.44         1,635
Plmb bob.                      5             16.97           84.85         1,275
Band level                     5             32.50          162.50         2t445
Abney level                    3             69.95          209.85         3,150
Levelliag roa                  3             94.57          283.71         4,260
1.ad meaaarina  %heel/oaee     2            128.10          256.20         3,840
Fbeld books                   20              6.68          133.60         2,010
Riso. sandriea                                 -            500.00         7,500
Conwsumable utores                             _            250.00        _2750
2,631.88



- 71 
Atiacien-t 3 (cont.
Pa6e 3
Item                    Qtity          Unit Coal        Total Cost      Total Cost
?orest Mensxat-tion
wrpsometer                       2             67.83           135.66         2t040
a(,a)                3             123.05          369.15         5t535
nt     (Christens)           3              7.14           21.42            315
Relascope                        2            503.89         1,007.78        15,120
Apertmre relascope angle gauge  4               4.22           .16.88           255
Yi::ro d&n.ometer                1          1,694475         11694.75        25,425
Diameter tapes                  10             23.00           230.00         3,450
Calipers                         5             50.59           505.90         7,590
Bam-k gaue 5 cm                  2             34,27            68.54         1,o35
it  n   2 cm                 2              22.00           44.00            660
Increment borer                  5             59.22           296.10         4,440
Increment borer (long)           2             93.95           187.90         2,820
Sharpening stone for inor.
borer                          2              3.27             6.54           105
Incrcment core box               2             12.01            24.02           360
Talley counter                   2              7.72            15.44           225
MCI..1 rale                     15              0.97            14.55           225
Inber pach wheel                 1            100.73           100.73         1,515
E E steel tape 20 m              3             1423             42.69           645
StereoScope Docket              20             33.92           678.40        10,170
Stereoscope Elde mirror          1            454.00           454-00         6,810
1iisc. und.ries                                 -              275.00         4,125
Constzmable stores                              -              300.00        _____
Total                                     6,489.45        97,342
Czand  Total                                    23,310.06        349,651
Wr"am=WX,:     A==a"
i/ At exchange rate 1:15
Source: Preparation Report, September 1979



- 74 -
BANGLADESH                             ANNEX 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Table 1    Price Assumptions for Financial Analysis
Table 2    Cost and Benefit Streams
TAble 3    Financial Statements of KNM and KPM



- 75 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 1
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Price Assumptions for Financial Analysis
Mangrove Products
1/          ~~~2/       3a/os
Fuelwood-/        Pulpwood-          Sawlogs-
Item                             Tk/m   Tk/cuft.   Tk/m   Tk/cuft.   Tk/m   Tk/cuft.
Market Price
less                           180       5.1       245      6.9       304      8.6
Transport & Handling            52       1.5      102       2.9        52      1.5
Felling & Extraction              6       .2         6       .2         6       .2
Profit Margin (20%)             36       1.0       49       1.4        61      1.7
Stumpage Pric~                    86       2.4        88      2.4       185      5.2
_/ Retail price sampled in project area.
2/ Based on 1978/79 wood cost at KPM factory gate, adjusted upwards by 20% to
reflect anticipated June 1980 price.
3/ Wholesale price sawn wood of Taka 60 per cuft. less sawing losses of Taka 33.4
(assuming 40% recovery rate; 10% lost as sawdust, and .5 cuft of offcuts
valued at Taka 5.1 per cuft.), sawing and other milling cost of Taka 6.0,
20% profit margin of Taka 12.0. Amounts to wholesale price of Taka 8.6 per
cuft. sawlog.
December 26, 1979



- 76 -
BANGIADESH                                                                ANNEX 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT                                                     Table 2
Fiscal Analysis - Cost and Benefit Streams-/
(Taka Million)
Investment Cost
Total
Plantation                Boats,Vehicles Plantation  Public Relations  Investment
Periods       Establishment Buildings   Equipment       Trial Unit and Training      Cost
1                5.14          5.27         19.14          5.64          3.13         38.31
2                6.12          6.43          2.73          0.00          0.00         15.27
3                7.83         11.07          1.98          0.00          0.00         20.88
4                9.88          3.81          0.03          0.00          0.00         13.72
5               10.20          0.00          0.02          0.00          0.00         10,22
6                0.00          0.00          0.85          0.00         -2.15         -1.30
7                0.00          0.00         -1.58          0.00          0.00         -1.58
8                0.00          0.00          5.07          0.00          0.00          5.07
9                0.00          0.00         10.01          0.00          0.00         10.01
10               0.00          0.00          0,02          0.00          0.00          0.02
11               0.00          0.00          2.12          0.00          0.00          2.12
12               0.00          0.00          1.07          0.00          0.00          1,07
13               0.00          0.00          1.52          0.00          0.00          1.52
14               0.00          0.00          0.03          0.00          0.00          0.03
15               0.00          0.00          0,02          0.00          0.00          0.02
16               0.00          0.00          0.85          0.00          0.00          0.85
17               0.00          0.00          0.57          0.00          0.00          0.57
18               0.00          0.00          0.70          0.00          0.00          0.70
19               0.00          0.00          0.03          0.00          0.00          0.03
20               0.00          0.00          0.02          0.00          0.00          0.02
21               0.00          0.00          0.85          0.00          0.00          0.85
Operating Cost                                                 Total
HQ. Overhead               Boats,Vehicles Plantation   Public Relations Remote      Operating
Periods       FD Staff    and Uniforms Buildings      Equipment     Trial Unit  and Training      Sensing      Cost
1                7.66          0.89          0.28          2.02          0.79          0.06          4.29         15.19
2                8.00          0.91          0.44          6.85          0.90          0.06          3.29         19.55
3                8.95          1.05          0.63          7.33          0.90          0.06          1.30         19.31
4               10.61          1.31          0.95          7.33          0.90          0.06          1.30         21.56
5               11.08          1.32          1.07          7.33          0.90          0.06          1.30         22.15
6               11.08          1.32          1.07          7.33          0.90          0.00          0.00         20.80
7-21            11.08          1.32          1.07          5.49          0.90          0,00          0.00         18.96
Benefits                                              Net
Total       Benefits      Marketable                               Added Back      Total        Incremental
Periods        Cost        Foregone       Fuelwood    Pulpwood       Sawlogs       Taxes & Duties  Benefits     Benefits
1               53.50        -0.94           0.00          0.00          0.00        11.00         11.00        -42.50
2               34.82         -1.88          0.00          0.00          0.00          5.60          5.60       -29.22
3               40.19         -3.13          0.00          0.00          0.00          7.40          7.40       -32.79
4               35.28         -3.75          0.00          0.00          0.00          5.30          5.30       -29.98
5               32.38         -4.38          0.00          0.00          0.00          4.20          4.20       -28.18
6               19.50         -3.13          0.00          0.00          0.00          3.20          3.20       -16.30
7               17.38         -1.56          0.00          0.00          0.00          3.20          3.20       -14.18
8               24.03          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          3.20          3.20       -20.83
9               28.96          0.00          0.00          9.10          0.00          3.20         12.30       -16.66
10              18.98          0.00          0.00          9.10          0.00          3.20         12.30         -6.68
11              21.07          0.00          0.60          9.10          0.00          3.20         12.90         -8.17
12              20.03          0.00          1.70         10.40          0.00          3.20         15.30         -4.73
13              20.48          0.00          1.80         10.40          0.00          3.20         15.40        -5.08
14              18.99          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         3.20           3.20       -15.79
15              18.98          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          3.20          3.20       -15.78
16              19.81          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          3.20          3.20       -16.61
17              19.53          0.00         53.20         14.00        35.40           3.20       105.80         86.27
18              19.66          0.00        55.10          14.00        35.40           3.20       107.70         88.04
19              18.99          0.00        78.60         14.00         47.30           3.20       143.10        124.11
20              18.98          0.00       102.40          14.00        59.30           3.20       178.90         159.92
21              19.81          0.00       105.90          14.00        59.30           3.20       182.40        162.59
Return to Total Investment: 5.5%
1/ For details see Annex 1.
January 17, 1980



- 77 -                     ANNEX 2
Table 3
BANGLADESH                        Page 1
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Khulna Newsprint Mill: Income Statement FY 78/79
Taka Thousand
Sales                                                          222,900
Duty drawback                                                   14,200
Profit on sale of export performance licence                     8,700
Total sales revenue                                            245,800
Cost of goods sold                                             219,200
Gross profit                                                    26,600
Other income (interest and investment income)                    3,100
29,700
Selling expenses                                                 2,500
General and admin. expenses                                      2,400
Manufacturing expenses                                           4,000
Total expenses                                                   8,900
Operating profit                                                20,800
Miscellaneous expenses                                           1,800
"Contribution to exchequer"                                      2,500
Net profit                                                      16,500
November 28, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Khulna Newsprint Mill: Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1979
(Taka Thousand)
Current Assets                                        Current Liabilities
Cash on hand                 11,900                   Accounts payable                 167,900
Notes receivable              16,500                   Accrued liabilities              36,800
Accounts receivable           43,200                   Taxes payable                     4,100
Inventories                 153,000
Prepayment of expenses        51,500                   Total current liabilities                     208,800
Total current assets                   276,200      Debt
Long term                        51,200
Other Assets                                            Medium term                       29,700
Account in Pakistan            6,200
Clearing account               2,600                   Total debt                                     80,900
Unallocated revenue exp.      12,000
Investment                    2,000                 Net Worth                                                     m
Current account w/headoffice * 900                     Capital stock                   168,700
Accrued income                29,300                   Earned surplus                  (29,700)
Total other assets                      53,000         Total net worth                               139,000
Fixed Assets                                          Reserves
At cost                      232,900                   Capital reserve                     300
Less depreciation            116,500                   Tax holiday reserve              15,500
Other                             1,100
Net fixed assets                       116,400
Total reserves                                 16,900
Total Assets                             445,600      Total Liabilities                               445,600
November 28, 1979



- 79 -
Table 3
BANGLADESH                            Page )
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Karnaphuli Paper Mill: Income Statement FY 78/79
Taka Thousand
Sales of paper                                  196,900
Sales of Conv. prod.                             21,900
Transfers                                        14,900
Miscellaneous                                     2,000
Total sales revenue                             235,700
Variable operating costs                        292,600
Fixed operating costs                            51,100
Less adjustments (transfer to KRM)              (78,600)
Net operating costs                             265,100
Less inventory adjustment                       (22,100)
Cost of goods sold                              243,000
Net profit (loss)                                (7,_300)
November 28, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Karnaphuli Paper Mill: Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1979
Current Assets                                        Current Liabilities
Cash on hand                 5,500                    Accounts payable               234,200
Accounts receivable        102,700                    Accrued liabilities             50,600
Inventories                176,200
Prepayment of expenses      17,500                    Total current liabilities                     284,800
Total current assets                    301,900    Debt
Agram Bank                     72,600
Other Assets                                            Other                            1,700
Investment                   3,600
Total: debt                            .      74,300
Total other assets                         3,600
Net Worth
Fixed Assets                                            Capital stock                   92,500                    X
At cost                    190,600                    Earned surplus                 (94,700)
Less depreciation          130,500
Total net worth                               (2,200)
Net fixed assets                          60,100
Reserves
Capital reserve                 3,200
Other                           5,500
Total reserves                                 8,700
Total Assets                               365,600    Total Liabilities                               365,600
November 28, 1979
e i-at 9



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Table 1    Economic Price for Rice
Table 2    Economic Prices of Mangrove Products
Table 3   Monthly Labor Requirements for FD Operations
Table 4    Plantation Yields and Production Projections
Table 5    Cost and Benefit Streams
Table 6    Sensitivity Test on ERR and Present Values



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                 Table
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Economic Price for Rice
US$ per
Metric Ton
Price 1990, Thai 5% broken, FOB Bangkok-=                                  504
- less 30% for price of 25-35% broken                                  151
- plus transportation to Chittagong                                     30
Price CIF Chittagong                                                       383
- plus 16% of above for handling and
distribution to consumption centers 2/                                61
Price at consumption centers                                               444
- less 21% of above for cost of marketing, milling,
and transportation from farm to consumption centers 2/               93
- plus 5% of above for value of by-products                             22
Price of rice equivalent at farmgate                                       373
(Taka 5,968)
1/ IDA Commodity Price Forecast, May 1979, adjusted by Index of International
Inflation (EPDIT: February 1979) to express in 1980 constant dollars.
2/ Percentages established from a GOB study of these costs.
December 20, 1979



- 83 -                                     ANNEX 3
Table 2
BANGLADESH                                    Page 1
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Economic Prices of Mangrove Products
1. Marketable Fuelwood
a.  Derivation of Conversion Factor                                     US$/m.ton
Price of kerosene Nov. 1979, FOB Singapore                             380
- plus transportation to Chittagong                                 11
Price CIF Chittagong                                                   391
- plus 10% of above for handling and
transport to consumption centers                                  39
Price at consumption centers                                           430
=
Taka Equivalent            6,880
Economic price of 1 liter kerosene                               Taka 6.88
Market price of 1 liter kerosene-/                               Taka 5.01
- Conversion factor for marketable fuelwood
assuming full substitution of kerosene (6.88/5.0l)-/                 1.37 (80%)
- General conversion factor3/                                         0.80 (20%)
- Special conversion factor for marketable fuelwood-/                 1.26
b.  Economic Stumpage Price                                     Taka/m    Taka/cuft
5/
Market price for fuelwood-                                    180         5.1
- adjusted by special conversion factor                       227        6.4
- less transport and handling cost6/                           42        1.2
- less felling and extraction cost6/                            5          .1
Economic Stumpage Price                                       180        5.1
1/ Retail market price as of November, 1979.
2/ CF = Economic Price of Kerosene :Market Price of Kerosene.
3/ GCF = OER : SER = 16 : 20 = 0.80
4/ SCF = 1.37 x .80 + 0.80 x .20 = 1.26; assuming that 80% of marketable
fuelwood would replace kerosene, and 20% other domestic energy sources.
5/ See Annex 2, Table
6/ Adjusted by GCF.
December 20, 1979



- 84 -                                 ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                   Table 2
Page 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Economic Prices of Mangrove Products, Cont'd
2. Non-Marketable Fuelwood
a.  Alternative A                                                Taka/m3   Taka/cuft
Market price for fuelwood                                     180         5.1
- adjusted by G.C.F.                                          144         4.1
- less transport and handling cost to
consumption center                                           42        1.2
- less felling and extraction cost                              5          .1
Economic Stumpage Price                                        97         2.8
b. Alternative B
Economic farmgate price for 67.2 Kg rice1/                    401       11.4
- less cost of spreading manure-/                              98         2.8
- less cost of harvesting incremental productio-2/             32          .9
Economic value of rice equivalent                             271         7.7
- less transport and handling cost of fuelwood
to farmgate                                                  14          .4
- less felling and extraction cost                              5          .1
Economic Stumpage Price                                       252         7.2
1/  For derivation of farmgate price for rice see Table 1.  It was assumed that
(i) one m3 non-marketable fuelwood would release 4.8 metric tons of wet cow
dung (based on coal replacement values); (ii) the nitrogen content of one ton
of wet cowdung equals 4 Kg N; (iii) one additional Kg N would produce an
incremental 3.5 Kg of rice; (iv) and one m3 non-marketable fuelwood in releasing
cowdung would therefore indirectly lead to an incremental rice production of
67.2 Kg.
2/  Incremental labor requirements for spreading 4.8 tons of manure and harvesting
incremental paddy production equivalent to 67.2 Kg rice are estimated to be 15 and
5 man-days respectively. Labor was shadow priced at Taka 6.50 per man-day
(See Table 3 ).
December 21, 1979



- 85 -                                   ANNEX 3
Table 2
BANGLADESH                                  Page 3
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Economic Prices of Mangrove Products, Cont'd
3.  Pulpwood                                                        Taka/m    Taka/cuft
Price CIF Chittagong-/                                           265          7.5
- plus cost of transport and handling2/                      21          0.6
Price at factory gate                                            286          8.1
- less cost of logging and transport2/                       86          2.4
Economic stumpage price of pulpwood                              200          5.7
4. Sawlogs
Price CIF Singapore-/                                         1,150          32.6
- less quality adjustment                                   690         19.6
Price CIF Chittagong                                             460        13.0
- plus local freight and handling cost2/                     40          1.1
Local delivered Price                                            500         14.1
less logging and transport cost2/                           47          1.3
Economic stumpage price of sawlogs                               453        12.8
1/ Fall 1979 price
2/ Adjusted by GCF
December 21, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Monthly Labour Requirements for Forestry Operations (Man/Day per Acre)
Seed         Seedling                Marking and                                                                       Extraction
Production  Production  Surveying Cutting Lines  Planting  Replanting  Sowing  Resowing  Beating up  Felling  and Stacking  Watching
January                               -           -            -             -            -           -          -         -           -      2.00        1.00         0.025
February                              -           -            -             -             -           -         -         -           -      4.00         2.00         0.025
March                                 -        0.20            -                           -          -          -         -           -       3.00        1.50         0.025
April                              0.15        0.80        0.01              -             -          -          -         -           -          -           -         0.025
May                                0.30        0.90            -         0.07           1.30           -      0.70         -           -          -           -         0.025
June                               0.30        1.70            -         0.12          1.50        0.20       0.80     0.30         0.30          -           -        0.025
July                               0.80        3.60            -         0.14          2.60        0.60       1.30     0.50         0.50          -           -        0.025
August                             0.70        3.50            -         0.14          2.50        1.00       1.20      0.80        0.80          -           -         0.025
September                          0.40        1.60            -         0.07          1.10        0.90       0.60     0.80        0.80           -           -        0.025
October                            0.40        1.40            -          0.06          1.00       0.30       0.40      0.40        0.60          -           -         0.025
November                              -           -            -             -             -           -         -         -           -          -           -         0.025
December                              -           -            -             -             -          -          -         -           -       1.00       0.50         0.025
Total man days                     3.05       13.70        0.01          0.60         10.00        3.00       5.00      3.00        3.00      10.00        5.00         0.300
No. of days
Mid-June to mid-August             1.30        6.60            -          0.30          5.10       1.60       2.60      1.60        1.60          -           -         0.050
No. of days
1st of November to mid-December                                                                                                               0.50        0.25         0.037
Balance                            2.75        7.10        0.01          0.30          4.90        1.40       2.40      1.40        1.40      9.50        4.75          0.213
1/
Financial cost (Tk)               36.60      164.40        0.12           7.20       120.00       36.00      60.00    36.00        36.00    120.00       60.00          3.60
2/
Cost at shadow wage rate          29.50      108.60         0.06         4.80         80.40       24.40      40.40    24.40        24.40      61.00      30.50          2.07
Cost shadow wage rate as a
percentage of financial cost(%)    81            66           50            67            67         68         67        68          68         51          51           58
1/ Table 8
2/ Tk 10 for the period mid-June to mid-August, Tk 8 for the period 1st of November to mid-December and Tk 6 for the rest of the year.
rD 1
December 14, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Plantation Yields and Production Projections
Years
1 - 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11  Year 12  Year 13  Year 14  Year 15  Year 16  Year 17  Year 18  Year 19  Year 20  Year 21
YIELDS(thousand cu ft/acre)
Fuelwood:
Marketable                            -     185      185       185       185     185          -         -         -      1,637   1,637    1,637    1,637    1,637
non-marketable                        -     840      840       840       840     840          -         -         -        527      527       527       527       527
Sawlog                                  -       -        -         -         -       -          -         -         -        455      455       455       455       455
VOLUME(million cu ft)
Fuelwood:
Marketable 1/                         -     2.8      2.8       3.7       4.6     4.6          -         -         -      24.6    24.6      32.7      40.9      40.9
non-marketable                        -    12.6    12.6       16.8      21.0    21.0          -         -         -       7.9      7.9     10.5      13.2      13.2
Sub-total                          -    15.4    15.4       20.5      25.6    25.6           -         -         -     32.5    32.5       43.2      54.1      54.1
Sawlog                                  -       -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -       6.8      6.8       9.1      11.4      11.4
Total                              -    15.4    15.4        20.5     25.6    25.6           -         -         -      39.3    39.3      52.3      65.5      65.5
1/  Marketable fuelwood can be used as pulpwood.  Mangrove pulpwood requirements are estimated at 3.5 million cu ft   p.a. in years 9 - 11 of the project,
4.0 million cu ft   p.a. in years 12 and 13, and 5.6 million cu ft   p.a. in years 17 - 21 of the project.
December 5, 1979



.-41 000004040.00004 .-40004
0.004 Or 4".,- 04.0.0040 .00404..40. 0.0.0.4                                                                    0
044           004.                             04                                                                                                                    ''.4
04040404.004000000.04-4-4.4'4040.-4'-4'44  44
04040000040400004040044'44.404004r         .4-4
4.4                                            44   04-t.#                         0   4.'4.'4
"'4   040-4400000000000000000 O0040i'..t'.o .0.0.0.0.004.0.004.0.0.04.0.0.0                                                                                          44
04.4    44.4.-'.  0404'                       0444..
440                                            4.4 0.4  -4.4044'4.0-4000000000004040
00                                             0 0.o 04.'4.'4,
4-40                                           4.04.4                                                                                            0             0
.4                                                l4             -        44
0                                                 -              00    '04
0                                               .41041                                                 ""'.4.044044".'04  4.44.04'.-'.                       0-44    44
0'-                                              b4                                          0.4  00049040.000400004C.40.04..4044..4.4 0                     0044      44
on                                               4.-44                                        044  4444404040404040 044.44-.4.4-.  .0-40-4.4
4                                         0.4                                   *"          0            
0  '0   44
.4                                                                                          004  444040'.O'.000.4'..4r44-.o'.o..4,..4             0   .0  4.400       0
00            ..'.                                    fl44.4.4.40000000000000000   4404
.4.00  0    44044    00
04.4  000000000000000000000                      '0                                                                                            44  0.4  4444  44.4
.4  -40000.4*4000000000000000                  4404.                                                                                         .4.4.4.4   0    0
4444                                             .4..'.
44-  4'.40000,.4000000000000000                   -4                                                                                           *00.  00    444
'.4                                                                                                                 00
.0  '0                                           0                                              .4                                         44.4  440    44    044
*4                                                 44'0   0  .4.4.4
4.                                                              .00.00.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0. -4..i i;i:;:ii  y
.4440.n44.440044.'4 0000000000000000
.-40.4                                          0 *.'-''-.                                 0. .- 00  440-4
.01                                           0v44  OoooooooooOoooooOc,oo.o                   0¶  0..d'..4'0444.44000404u.oc.4 0004'44n0 0.04  .'4       00
.0.440                                      .       4r40000 0-40..404..44..4  000.-4044'.4'.0'0  4.   0  0.4
04'                                                                                                0004044.400 O04004.4000004N4fl44                440  00
0.4                                            0                                                0                .44.00.0.04   04.0.44.0.4       00.4  .444
.40                                                                                                                             0444'40404                         0
.4   .4400000000000000000000    4". 04                                                                                                        ..4  01  ...4..4  .4.4
40     0.4-'                                          .4.44.4                                         "''4
OOOOOOOOOOOOOoooooooo                                                                *  .0-400 00.4
4.4                                                       0440                                           04                                           0  444444  0.0044 0'0
0.4.0                                                                                        0  44  ow   000440
'.4 00000000000000004'.44'.40..0.0   -4  a'- '000  4.40.444
OOOOOOOOOoOOoOOOor..o'.                         .4  .4444.4.4
004                              00000000000000000.0.0.0.                            .0  .0 00'
            0  -4.40.4  440
j                                                               0
0.0040000000.4.4040400000000                       00.-4.-400000000000000000                                                                        000.0
04  04    -    0404.000000000.0..t00000000  0   .40                                                                                        '.004-4-4.0  .4          -400
o . * 0.4..4 4.44 Ooooooooooooooooooo.4.4                                                                                                    -40-4    -4.400 
0  '0     4444  000000000000000000000  .4                                                                                                             -  0I0.40.0.4.4  -40  00
0 :004
4                                                             j
44                                             49  .0k'.                                        4.4                                                    44 4444 44 44 44 OOO044'4.0000444040O444  00000000000-4-4-4-4      .0440.0004040.00044
04 .040:0                                                                                                                                                            4  44
                                                                                                     0  00000000.44.4'4.440000 000000                                       0.0
oF'. 0  -4040-4-4-40400-4-40400-4-400-4004   .0..0000000004040404040000404040404
04                                                         04j.4
4.                                                         440                                       44                                                                         .4.4
04'                                                                                                                                                                          .40
044                                          04.,
444                                                    00   00040404040404040404040440                                                                                      .0
491                                            -40.U                                                                                                                   04
.40 ooooooooooooooddc5c  .0'0                                                                                       004
00                                              0.4                                          00                                                                       44
40
00                                                                                           440  0000000000.4.004000.004o,.4.4
044                                                                                          .4  0000000000-4.0.4.0000                                               '00
044                                              04                                                                                                                   0444
04                                                                        .4
-                                            44.4
040 .0.'4.04400000000000000000
444 4fl4.404.-400000000000000000                '0                                          00  0000000000   4449000..'.-.00.o'..-.4
040.o                                                                                       :00.                              .4.40400                               .4
0    .4-.t404000000000000000000                 044
0 '0                                            .4.44
440                                             044  4'40404 04004. 00000004.40-40O404
0.4                                             00'fl.00.0. O.0040404.00404040404040404.004   Si                                                           . . . .    0.4
00   00000000000000000000   .0-                                                            00400404444 . .-40.04o     44"4
00                                           04.4                                                                .   44
oL  0. 04 04 0 00 444 0000000 0 0 000 00       440                                          .4-4                                           .4.4.400.40.4.40.4.4.4   .444
0                                             .4..4.-4-.-4."4..4         00
44 0000000000400000000000                                                                  040  0000000004444004040004440.04.4                  .0.0.0.0A.0A.00    040
440  0000000044404.04440400000.4o '4,'.  S1 4004.40000                  .4
-                                                                                         C.'4n  -.4.4.4'44444.'.-.4-.'..t.4.
44.40000000'fl00000000000                  0.j                                          ,                                         .                             0.4
-r                                                                                               00000000.0,oooo.o.'..',-44.0
4440
00000    .40.400000.40.4:0
.40  0444'404444.0000000000000000                                                                 4.400000.flOOOOOOOO                       .400.4.4.40               4000
0-4.'                                                                                                                                                               04444
440  0..400004000000000000000                        -40040. 0.0.0.04040.0404040404   441             -.,*,-.-.-.'.0000000000000 0*    *.40000000000
0000000000000000                                                                                000000000000000 .4000000.400000
40   00                                                                                                  -4-4   .400  04
-40                                              ol                                                                                    0..4.4 .4
0.04                                             401                                                                                   44    000000.400000    004.4
44444444444444444444444444 040.0
0000000000000    44
'0'0'00'00'0'0'0'0'0'0'0      0  0.
0                                        44                                   0
04                                             0                                            *0                                       .4  44444444444444444444444444
04                                                                                           0                                        0  ooocooooooooo                     0.
444 0040404444040.040400-040.00                440-44fl.44 00.0 040.-.00.44'4.00. 04040o                                             0  4.40.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.400.0.      44
-40                                                                     44 00404044404040404 0.-404'404'4040. :004000
4'.                0.-.0,.400.-400.-400                         0000-400000000 0.                ---------------------   44
.4  41014' I.4I-4I.0I0.I04I04Ijjj   



-89 -                                     ANNEX 3
Table 6
BANGLADESH                                    Page 1
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
I.  Sensitivity Tests on ERR
1/  Net Present   Economic
Present Value   Value as % of  Rate of
Stream                           Variations    (Taka Million)  Present Costs  Return
Base case                                          226.6          129            18.3
Benefits
Non-marketable fuelwood:         Down 20%         202.8          115            17.4
Down 40%         179.0          102            16.6
Down 60%         155.2           88            15.8
Lag 1 year       210.2          119            17.5
Lag 2 years      195.3          111            16.9
Lag 3 years  2/ 183.0           104            16.5
Alternative B price-  532.1           303             26.8
Marketable wood 3/               Down 20%         167.9           96             16.8
Down 40%         109.2           62            15.0
Down 60%          50.5           29            12.7
Lag 1 year       150.7           86            16.2
Lag 2 years       82.0           47            13.9
Lag 3 years       29.5           17            11.7
Total Benefits:                   Down 20%         146.1           83            16.0
Down 40%          65.7           37            13.2
Down 60%         -14.8           -8             9.1
Lag 1 year       135.2           77            15.5
Lag 2 years       52.4           30            12.5
Lag 3 years      -11.5           -7             9.3
Costs
Investment costs:                Up 20%           214.8          115            17.5
Up 40%           203.1          102            16.8
Up 60%           191.3           91            16.2
Operating costs:                 Up 20%           203.2          102            17.1
Up 40%           179.8           81            16.0
Up 60%           156.4           64            15.1
Total Costs:                      Up 20%           191.4           91            16.4
Up 40%           156.3           64            14.9
Up 60%           121.2           43            13.6
Up 100%           50.9           14            11.3
1/ At discount rate of 10%.
2/ See Table 2, Page 2.
3/ Includes marketable fuelwood, pulpwood and sawlogs.
January 3, 1980



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                   Table 6
Page 2
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
II. Sensitivity Tests on Present Values
Appraisal            Switching
Value                 Value 1/              %
Variable                       (Taka Million)         (Taka Million)        Change
Benefits from
Non-marketable fuelwood             118.9                 -110.8             -193
Marketable fuelwood                 136.0                  -93.7             -169
Other Benefits                      147.3                  -82.4             -156
Total Benefits                      402.2                  174.8              -57
Costs
Plantation establishment             15.4                  245.1          +1,494
Boats                                51.2                  280.9             +449
Vehicles and equipment                5.9                  235.6           +3,906
Houses                               24.2                  253.9             +950
Employment                           50.4                  280.1             +456
Other Costs                          25.5                  255.2             +901
Total Costs                         174.8                  402.2             +130
1/ At discount rate of 10%.
January 3, 1980



BANG LADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Activities                             1980                          1981                          1982                          1983                           984                           985
i                                                                                      D MI AMi J ASlON D    F MJ A MiJ]J AS O!NO D  J iF i AlSMO  NMMA  MilJAsoNIDi MAM  F M AT MJJIM   AISIOINiD
Plantation Establishment                              ,f,/    ,           S           g    ,.Ir/                                   
Staff Housing and Offices.    r  ..'                                                                               .          .',A                        .. '..                                                       A
Site Selection                                                                                                                                   , A
Land Acquisition
Prepare and Issue Tender Notice                                                    i.
Receive, Evaluate and Award Bids O'
Construction Period
Boats, Vehiciesand Equipments
Prepare and Issue Tender Notice
Receive, Evaluate and Award Bids                    .                                                                                           ' A
Delivery of Boats
Purchase of Vehicles and Equipment                                                                                                                                                  -                        4,t
Other                                                                                                                                           r~                                                         
Plantation Trial Unit                                            |                                                                                               _
Public Relations                                                                                                                                                                                      l i          I
Training"'< '
Monsoon
World Bank -21279                               ?'
rt>C
"  .'



- 92 -                                     ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
BANGLADESH                                   Page 1
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Draft Outline of Bi-Annual Progress Report
I. Summary of Achievements during Reporting Period
Summary should include information on staffing, nursery establishment, planting
targets, research, monitoring, preparation of tender documents, procurement,
and disbursements.
a!
II.  Staff Return-
a. Headquarters and PTU
Staff Category                No. Approved               No. in Post
CF                                  1                         1
DCF                                 2                         2
ACF                                 1                         -
Head Clerk                          2                         1
cont'd
b. Divisional Offices
Pathuakhali      Barisal           Noakhali         Chittagong          Total
Staff    No.       No.in  No.        No.in  No.       No.in  No.        No.in No.        No. in
Category Approved Post   Approved Post   Approved Post   Approved Post  Approved Post
DFO         1       1        1        1        1        1        1       1       4        4
ACF         2       1        2        2        2        1        2       2       8        6
Clerk       2       1        1        1        2        1       2        2       7        5
FRO         6       6        5        5        7        5        8       5      26       21
cont'd
a/ Sample only - not complete.



- 9t -                                       ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2
III. Plantation Establishment and Management
b/
a.  Nurseries-
Nurseries               Seedlings Available
Existing           Established             for Planting
Division           Nurseries           in FY         Target   in FY
Pathuakhali
Barisal
Noakhali
Chittagong                                             _
Total
b/ Expressed in standard nursery beds of 160 sq.feet each (4'x40').
b. Plantings (in acres)
Existing Plantations-/       Established in FY            Grand
Division           Keora  Baen  Other  Total  Keora  Baen  Other  Total  Total
Pathuakhali        9,000  1,000  500   10,500 2,000   100   100   2,200  12,700
Barisal
Noakhali
Chittagong                               __                                   -
Total
Target
c/ Excluding losses.
c. Replanting and Losses (in acres)
Replanting in FY                Losses in FY
Division           Keora  Baen  Other  Total  Keora  Baen  Other  Total
Pathuakhali          300    20        -    320    150   100    50    300
Barisal
Noakhali
Chittagong                               _                            _
Total



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3
IV. Buildings
Divisions
Pathuakhali  Barisal  Noakhali  Chittagong    Total
Permanent
Target in FY(83)                  2          3           -           2          7
Under Construction                1          2           -           -          3
Completed in FY                   -          1           -           2          3
Total Completed                   7          2           4           3         16
Semi-Permanent
Target in FY
Under Construction
Completed in FY
Total Completed
Temporary
Target in FY
Under Construction
Completed in FY
Total Completed
V. Boats, Vehicles1 and Equipment
Total
An Order for FY   Delivered in FY    Target  Delivered
Boat Type
Launch                               4                   2              4         2
Seed Carrier                         1                   1              1         1
Speed Boat                           8                   4             25         4
Country Boat (heavy)                                                   20
Country Boat (medium)                                                  30
Country Boat (small)                                                   20
Vehicles
Mini-Bus                                                                2
Jeep                                                                    6
Motorcycle                                                              6
Bicycle                                                                60
Equipment
Wireless Set                                                           11



VI.  Statement of Expenditure and Disbursement as of .........
Expenditure (in Tk)        Reimbursable        Amount        Amount
Reporting                                       Claimed      Disbursed
Category                                  Period      Cumulative      in %    in Tk   in Tk  in US$  in Tk in US$
1.  Plantation Establishment                                           90
2.  Plantation Management                                              40
3.  Staff Housing & Offices                                            80
4. Boats, Vehicles & Equipment
Improted vessels                                                 d/
Locally Procured Boats                                           60
Vehicles                                                         59
Equipment                                                        70
5.  Maintenance & Repair                                               40
6.  Plantation Trial Unit                                              80
7.  Public Relations & Training                                        80
8.  Remote Sensing                                                     80
d/ 100% of cif cost.
t8



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Growth and Yield Model for Keora and Baen
Table 1        Age, Diameter and Height Relationship
Table 2        Thinning, Final Felling Age, and Total Yields
Table 3        Yields of Different Mangrove Products



- 97 -
BANGLADESH                                  ANNEX 5
Table 1
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Age, Diameter and Height Relationship
for Keora and Baen Stands
1/
SITE CLASS I                           SITE CLASS II
Average           Average               Average          Average
Age          Diameter at BH 2      Height             Diameter at BH      Height
(inches)          (feet)                  (inches)       (feet)
2                 1.0               -                         .9            -
3                 1.19              -                        1.08           -
4                 1.42              -                        1.29           -
5                 1.69              -                        1.53           -
6                 2.0               -                        1.82           -
7                 2.38             21                        2.16          19
8                 2.83             24                        2.57          22
9                 3.37             29                        3.06          26
10                4.02             32                        3.65          29
11                4.34             34                        3.77          30
12                4.69             36                        4.08          31
13                5.06             38                        4.40          33
14                5.46             40                        4.75          35
15                6.0              44                        5.22          38
16                6.37             46                        5.30          39
17                6.88             48                        5.73          40
18                7.43             51                        6.19          43
19                8.0              54                        6.67          45
20                8.67             57                        7.23          48
1/  Average diameter and height in Site Class II are 90% of values calculated
for Site Class I from years 2 - 10, 87% from years 11 - 15, and 83% from
years 16 - 20. Yield calculations (Table 2) are based on values given for
Site Class II.
2/ Annual growth rates were estimated at 19% from years 1 - 10, and at 8%
from year 11 - 20.
December 12, 1979



BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Calculation of Thinning Age, Final Felling Age and Yield for Mangrove
Plantations of Keora and Baen
Age                         Remaining Stand                             Removed Stand                   Volume of Average Tree
No. of Trees        Diameter        Basal              No. of Trees       Average           V            V          V
per ha            @ BR           Area                  per ha          Height             1           3           4
(inches)       (m2)                                  (feet)
0             6,944                 -             _
1             6,764                 .9            -
2             6,589                1.08           4
3             6,418                1.29           5
4             6,252                1.53           7
5             6,090                1.82          10
6             5,932               2.16           14
7             5,778               2.57           19
8             5,629                3.06          27
9             5,481                3.65          37                    3,654              26           .699           .123
10            1,827                3.77          13
11            1,802                4.08          15
12            1,777                4.40          17
13            1,752                4.75          20
14            1,728               5.22           24
15            1,704                5.30          25
16            1,681                5.73          28
17            1,658                6.19          32 2/                 1,658              40          3.642          2.862        2.441
1/ First thinning
2   Final felling
3   Suffixes indicate the minimum diameter of the products included in the volume calculation.
For example, V1 indicates the volume of wood to 1 inch top diameter DIB.
December 12, 1979



- 99 -                                  ANNEX)
Table 3
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Keona and Baen-Managed Plantations
Yields of Different Mangrove Products -
Treatment                                Fliulwnd2i
Age                       Non-Marketable         Marketable
-3                   3                      3
m /ha cuft/acre    m /ha cuft/acre         m /ha  cuft/acre
9 (thinning)                    59        840         13      185           -           -
17 (final felling)               37        527        115     1637          32         455
Total          96      1367        128      1822          32         455
/  The composition of different mangrove products is based on the following
formulas developed by Forestal International.
(i) Volume equations:
V  -/   : V = - 1.065 + .0023 (D H) - .000000008 (D H)
4
v        : V = -  .673 + .0024 (D H) - .000000009 (D H)
3
V        : V = -  .235 + .0024 (D H) - .000000010 (D H)
2
V        : V = -  .166 + .0025 (D H) - .000000010 (D H)
1
a/ Suffixes indicate the minimum top diameter (DIB) of wood material included
in volume calculation.
(ii)  Height equation:
H = 4.5 + 7.475 D - .1625 D2
Wood, excluding all material of less than 1" in diameter,is taken as usable
wood. All wood with a diameter of 3" and above is considered commercial wood,
wood with a diameter equal or greater than 4" is counted as sawlogs, and
the remaining commercial volume would be marketable fuelwood (or pulpwood).
Wood between 1 - 3" is regarded non-marketable fuelwood.
2/ Also usable as fuelwood.
December 12, 1979



- 100 -
ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH
MANGROVE AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Al. FAO/CP: Bangladesh Coastal Afforestation Project, Preparation Report
No. 44/79 BAN 16, Rome September 1979.
Includes Annexes on:
- Forestry in Bangladesh
- Project Area and Ecology of Mangroves
- Coastal Afforestation in Bangladesh
- Remote Sensing
A2.  K. J. White:  Research Considerations in Coastal Afforestation,
UNDP/FAO Project BGD/72/005, Forest Research Institute
Chittagong, July 1979.
B.   Selected Working Papers
Bl. Consultant's Report: Bangladesh - Coastal Afforestation Project,
Pulpwood Markets and Prices.
B2. Data on Economic and Financial Analyses are stored in World Bank -
IMF Joint Computer System, CBDISPLAY Version 2.11.5 under usercode
BRYCAS/STANDARD and files BANG/MANGROVE/2 and BANG/MANGROVE/3
respectively.
B3. IDA Assistance to Bangladesh Landsat Program.



lx
E  0   LOCATION OF EX(ISTING MANGROVE PLANTATIONS                                         G    R 
K  .______________'____K_                                                          AANGRO L
fPAVISTAil(J                      UkftAfA.r      ','f                                                          MANfGROVE EORE t                                    t9                 
K'                        0V 1'<__n    :        I                                                 -,--t--      RAILWAY$  (  
-gM   I N D f A   : J    >}   2 . U.t                                        *~~~-. -  ItTi,RNAtIOIIAL  BOUiJNLARiES                                ( \ 
0~~          ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            rh eoeekriC of th read3 p 5t7sAbnWer oftm
BA Y  OF  BE NGL fi AS Le reotdars eohr ort tA isO \Eth>
\   )/                                                                   4 t2L 1  4p  ,  f2B                         do 7riot looply  , ,*fttph aie 5 par o f thoi 
|   <   ASPtl i. Ai9KA                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K.LOMELPItS                   Wort Ba.                             92d Os aflts an
L                                                                                                         MANGROVE PIe ANTAtTilth lael taN          o
t)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                             or ecoptnc _f t_- bodoi
_PYITA   .                                                                                                                  OET



