Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFIlClAL USE ONLY
Rqkt No. 13001
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3247-POL)
APRIL 29, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Zloty per US$)
Annual Averafe
1989  =   4,000
1990  =   9,500
1991  =  10,576
1992  =  13,631
1993  =  18,125
ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA       =     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EFSAL    =       Enterprise Financial Structural Adjustment Loan
ETP        =     Economic Transformation Program
GDP       =      Gross Domestic Product
IMF        =     International Monetary Fund
MOF        =     Ministry of Finance
PCR        =     Project Completion Report
SAL        =     Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL    =       Sector Adjustment Loan
SOEs       =     State-Owned Enterprises
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Poland -
Structural Adiustment Loan (Loan 3247-POL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Poland - Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan
3247-POL) prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
This project supported the Government's ambitious Economic Transformation Program (ETP). The
ETP represented an attempt at simultaneous stabilization, liberalization of the economy, and restoration of
creditworthiness. Other components included restructuring and privatizing state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
creating a legal framework for private sector development, and reforming the financial sector. The ETP also
aimed at strengthening the social safety net, including provision of unemployment benefits and minimal social
services to mitigate dislocations and ease transition costs.
ITe President's Report recognized that the ETP was subject to the risk of derailment, should a deep
recessionary impact of the stabilization program lead to high unemployment, fiscal deterioration and popular
pressure to abandon or weaken the program. However, it was expected that the proposed improvements in
unemployment benefits and other social safeguards would help to keep this risk manageable.
Unemployment did exceed the original projections, and implementation of the ETP was hindered by
the collapse of Poland's main trading market, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA). But
in spite of these major obstacles, many of the ETP's objectives were achieved. Hyperinflation was halted,
public finances were strengthened, the currency became freely convertible, most prices were liberalized and
rationing disappeared, small businesses were privatized, advances were made towards restructuring some
SOEs and the preparatory work for the creation of a modern banking system was started. Poland's foreign
debt was restructured.
On the other hand, progress towards the major institutional reforms, particularly those that required
parliamentary support, was disappointing. Much of the SOE sector continued to generate losses and its
restructuring was postponed; the quality of bank portfolios worsened; social security expenditures exploded.
The Bank is assisting the Government in these areas through several complementary projects. Although the
task is difficult owing to a lack of political consensus within the ruling coalition, a vibrant private sector --
much of it still informal-- has been created in Poland whose rapid growth justifies the expectation that the
process of economic transformation will continue.
This project was part of a broader country assistance program that is helping Poland to consolidate
the establishment of a sustainable market economy.  Its overall outcome is rated as satisfactory, its
institutional development impact as modest and its sustainability as likely. The PCR presents a good analysis
of the project's design and accomplishments, and Part II complements it with a frank assessment. An audit
is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POLIAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3247-POL)
Table of Contents
Preface    .....................................................
Evaluation Summary .                                                                    i
PART I: LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
A. Project Identity            ..
B. Background   ..
C. The Economic Transformation Program          ..
D. Role of the Bank..                                                            2
E. Accomplishments of the Adjustment Program and Impact of Reform.               4
F. Monitoring and Implementation.                                                7
G. Conclusions and Lessons Learned.                                              9
PART II: LOAN REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .                           ..  11
PART III: STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS AND SPECIFIC MEASURES  ..........  16
PART IV: BASIC DATA SHEET .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rciplents only in the perform- of their
official duties. lu contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaijou.  |






Ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3247-POL)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL -
Loan 3247 POL) in the amount of US$300 million equivalent, which was approved on July 31, 1990.
The main objective of the loan was to support the Government's Economic Transformation Program
(ETP) and its three main objectives: macroeconomic stabilization, structural reform for the
establishment of a market economy and restoring of growth, and the attainment of creditworthiness.
At the same time, the ETP provided for the establishment or strengthening of a social safety net,
through unemployment benefits and other social welfare programs, to mitigate dislocations and ease
transition. The loan became effective on October 1, 1990 and was fully disbursed on January 7, 1992
- shortly after the expected closing date of December 31, 1991.
2.    Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country Operations Division, Country
Department II, Europe & Central Asia Region. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF).
3.    Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final Supervision Mission of the project
in July 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report the Loan Agreements; Supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3247-POL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives of Loan
i.    At the end of the 198&s Poland was faced with its most severe macroeconomic crisis. High
inflation, increasing shortages, a rigid economic system, and a severe foreign exchange liquidity crisis
were the problems on which the previous economic regime was floundering. After years of growing
dissatisfaction with the economic and political systems, the govemment had to accede to a series of
Round-Table discussion with the Solidarity movement on the future of the country in February 1989.
These led to an agreement to hold the first, partly free, elections in June 1989. Solidarity won
overwhelmingly, and formed a coalition that installed a reform-oriented Government in September
1989. At the beginning of 1990, the new Government launched the Economic Transformation
Program (ETP), an unprecedented effort to combine stabilization and structural change, including
a radical liberalization of the exchange and trade regime as well as of pricing. The Structural
Adjustment Loan was conceived as part of the program of international support to the reforms,
which included an IMF Stand-by, as well as substantial debt relief by official creditors. The SAL was
approved on July 31, 1990.
Implementation Experience
ii.    SAL conditionality was a mixture of specific actions and broad policy understandings. Thus,
monitoring and supervision emphasized both compliance with covenants and quality of economic
policy dialogue. The main counterpart to the SAL was provided by the Ministry of Finance, but
consultations were held with a number of other institutions (National Bank of Poland, Ministry of
Foreign Economic Relations, Central Statistical Office, Central Planning Office, etc.) Four SAL
supervision mission visited Poland between October 1990 and July 1991. The policy dialogue in each
supervision mission was of high quality, and frank exchanges led to better understandings on policy
reform directions. Compliance with formal covenants was good, reflecting the government's
commitment to the underlying reform program. A waiver was however requested by the authorities
on June 10, 1991 with regard to one of the elements of the second tranche condition linking the
government budget and subsidy policy. While all other elements were in place at the time of the
request, the one relating to domestic heat and hot water supply tariffs was not met as scheduled. The
request for waiver was accepted because of the substantial compliance with all other conditions, and
of the authorities' commitment to a revised implementation schedule, which was incorporated as an
item of conditionality in the Heat Supply Restructuring Project. The World Bank Executive Board
approved the proposed waiver, and authorized disbursement of the second tranche on August 5, 1991.



- iv -
iii.    With regard to disbursements, difficulties were initially encountered on the Polish side in
understanding the Bank requirements for documentation of import expenditures and in setting up
the machinery needed to deal with the relevant paperwork. Some of the difficulties were substantive,
since a large portion of the external trade of Poland had been conducted under arrangements
(bilateral agreements, non-convertible currency trading) which were not compatible with World Bank
procurement guidelines. There were also few incentives for the State Trading enterprises to furnish
the relevant documentation. Technical assistance was provided by the Bank both to the National
Bank of Poland and to the Ministry of Finance. After some initial delays, the tempo of disbursements
picked up substantially, and indeed the loan was fully disbursed on January 7, 1992, shortly after the
original expected completion date.
iv.    The project accounts including Statements of Expenditures were audited by an independent
auditor; the audit report was received on March 31, 1992. The Bank had previously agreed to
consolidate the first and second audits originally due under the loan agreement, in view of the
expected full disbursement of the funds by the time the first audit would have been ready.
Results
v.    Given the difficult circumstances in which Poland began its stabilization and structural
reforms, the implementation of the policies agreed under the SAL can be considered relatively
successful. The main objective of halting hyperinflation was quickly achieved. In conjunction with
the particularly unfavorable shock provided by the CMEA trade collapse and some domestic factors,
the recessionary effects of the stabilization produced a cumulative decline in officially recorded GDP
of some 20 percent during 1990-91. From this point of view, the earlier expectations of the SAL
were not met, and Poland struggled, between the end of 1991 and 1992, to re-tune its economic
policies to the more adverse environment. Among other things, this prevented reaching an
agreement with the IMF on a Stand-by arrangement until early 1993, and delayed processing of other
adjustment operations by the Bank.
vi.   In other important areas of the ETP--structural and transformation reforms, especially in the
areas of privatization and changes in corporate governance in SOEs-- implementation was slower than
the initial, high expectations. But, four years after the start of the ETP, Poland has made major
progress in moving towards a market-oriented economy that will eventually integrate in the European
Community. Economic growth resumed in 1992, and 1993 saw robust growth in excess of 4 percent.
The agenda for reform, however, is not yet complete: further efforts, particularly in the restructuring
and privatization of SOEs, and in the financial sectors, need to be brought to fruition.
Lessons
vii.   The main lessons can be summarized as follows:
A. The reforms under the ETP were among the first and most radical in Eastern Europe.
Success was obtained in a number of areas, most importantly economic stabilization,
although at a higher price than originally expected. While it is sterile to ask whether a
different, less radical approach might have yielded better results, it is unquestionable to
argue that the Polish experience has provided important lessons on the appropriate
sequencing of reforms.



B. First, regarding SOE reform, a major lesson of the SAL experience Is that exclusive
reliance on indirect controls (through tax-based income policies and enforcement of
compulsory dividends) will not always suffice to stimulate business-like behavior. Some
sectors and enterprises learned very quickly to utilize their strategic or political weight
to postpone intemal adjustment, and continued to operate at a loss, circumventing in
various ways the hard budget constraints. In these cases, an increased exercise of the
ownership function by the treasury, including the provision of sufficient resources to
cushion the social effects of adjustment, is a necessary condition for arresting enterprise
losses and the potential threats to the budget.
C. Second, in Poland like in other Eastern European countries, the full impact of the
reforms on the financial health of the enterprise and financial sector did not materialize
immediately. Yet, stemming from the deteriorating performance of enterprises, the
deterioration of the quality of bank portfolios turned out to be the most important order
of the day following the initial phase of reforms. The second stage of the Polish reforms,
which began roughly in 1992 and to which the Bank is lending extensive support, has
decidedly confronted these problems.
D. Third, public sector finances entered a state of structural crisis that will require many
years and considerable political and social consensus to overcome. The dissolution of the
traditional revenue base of the state and the explosion of social expenditures due to the
rctrenchment of the SOEs are trademarks of all former socialist economies. Hence,
early and appropriate weight should be given to public sector reform.
E. Fourth, institutional reform is also paramount at all levels, and it is likely to pose a major
constraint, possibly more difficult to overcome than others. While the SAL did pay
attention to several institutional aspects of the reform, an overall strategy, involving the
structure of the state administration and its human resources, should be pursued at an
early stage.
F. Finally, the SAL was in direct support to a broad, initial strategy of reform. It was
explicitly meant to show World Bank backing for the unprecedented effort, and was
therefore very broadly designed. It was however intended to be followed by other sector-
specific operations, which were felt to be needed better to specify the path for individual
reforms. Overall, this approach has worked well. Subsequent policy discussions have
built up on the SAL conditionality; sectoral concentration has allowed to deepen dialogue
and analysis. A similar lending sequence would appear broadly appropriate under similar
circumstances.






PART I: LOAN REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name                         Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Number                  3247-POL
RVP Unit                     Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department II
Country                      Poland
Sector                       Non-sector specific (SAL)
B.    Background
1.    On January 1, 1990 Poland launched the Economic Transformation Program (ETP), a radical and
comprehensive attempt to stabilize the economy and to eliminate its centrally planned system. Before the
Round Table talks laid the ground for the peaceful passage of power and the restoration of democracy,
several reforms of its centrally planned economic system had been attempted, particularly during the
1980s, They were, however, limited in scope and aims, and ultimately failed as the system drifted back
to its old modus operandi. The latest round of reforms had begun in October 1987, when the
Government introduced a series of measures to deal with price distortions and shortages. This
price/income manoeuvre was designed to change relative prices of energy and adjust prices substantially
in other sectors. However, the lack of financial discipline in the enterprise sector, coupled with mounting
fiscal problems, resulted Instead in accelerating inflation, as the large price increases were compensated
by wage adjustments, validated in turn by credit expansion and increased subsidies. Real interest rates
were maintained highly negative.
2.    Thus, at the end of 1980s Poland was faced with Its most severe macroeconomic crisis,
manifested by high inflation, increasing shortages, and a severe foreign exchange liquidity crisis, In an
international environment that was witnessing the acceleration of the disintegration of communism. The
economic crisis became politically unbearable and the authorities were eventually compelled to look for
a political solution first. The communist government organized a series of Round-Table discussions with
the Solidarity movement in February 1989. That led to an agreement to hold the first partly free elections
in June 1989. Solidarity won overwhelmingly, and formed a coalition that installed a new government
under prime minister Mazowiecki in September 1989.
C.    The Economic Transformation Program
3.    It was this Government that had to face the severe economic problems and to take the lead in the
reform toward a market economy. Immediately upon assuming office in September 1989, it began to
tighten macroeconomic management, as prices were climbing at a hyperinflationary pace. At the wmne
time, work began in earnest on the preparation of the more comprehensive and ambitious Economic
Transformation Program (ETP). At the beginning of 1990, three months after it took the power, the
Government launched the ETP.



-2 -
4.     The ETP represented an unprecedented program combining stabilization and structural change.
As such it was a radical departure from the past gradual reform attempts. The ETP pursued wide-ranging
goals and objectives. Ultimately, it strived to raise living conditions to levels similar to those in Westem
Europe by transforming the economy into a market-oriented one with equitable sharing of benefits and
environmental compatibility. The program's immediate aim was, however, to stabilize the economy and
to promote the conditions to replace the centrally planned system with a market-based society. Given the
critical problems at the end of 1989 (hyperinflation and the external payments crisis) immediate priority
was given to macroeconomic stabilization. The stabilization package included the following main
measures: (i) a unified fixed exchange rate after a significant devaluation, partial convertibility of the
zloty (for most current account transactions), abolition of most import and export quotas, and a temporary
suspension of tariffs; (ii) credit controls and a monetary tightening, with the establishment of positive
real interest rates;  (iii)  price liberalization for almost all items previously controlled, and a
corresponding phasing-out of most subsidies; and (iv) the strengthening of the tax-based income policy
in a way that would result in a substantial fall in real wages'.
5.     In addition, the ETP also sought to introduce significant structural and systemic changes. These
comprised three major elements: (i) enterprise privatization and restructuring, to be fostered through
indirect control methods (such as the imposition of a compulsory dividend, whose non-payment would
trigger liquidation); private sector development, with appropriate legislation to impose financial discipline
and establish an adequate institutional framework for enterprise restructuring; (ii) financial sector reform,
with emphasis on improved banking regulations and supervision, introduction of adequate accounting and
auditing standards (also applicable to non-financial enterprises), and strengthening and phased
restructuring of the banking system; and (iii) establishment of a social safety net, with emphasis on
provision of adequate unemployment benefits, employment services, training, a program of minimum
social assistance, and improvements of health policy.
6.     There was considerable mobilization of international support for the program. The IMF approved
a SDR545 million Standby Arrangement in early 1990. The planned partial convertibility of the zloty
was backed by a Stabilization Fund of US$1 billion, organized by the major industrial countries. The
Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) for US$300 million was this Institution's first direct financial
support for the ETP, after a series of investment loan in different sectors.
D.    Role of the Bank
7.     Since Poland rejoined in 1986 the Bank had monitored the country's performance and initiated
policy dialogue. The dialogue intensified considerably after the Round Table agreements, and the Bank
decided to respond positively to the request for substantial support to the reform effort of the Mazowiecki
Government.  Within a fast-expanding program that was to provide initial support to all areas of
implementation of the ETP, the Bank saw the SAL as the main focal point to guide policy dialogue and
overall support to the reforms.
1/     The wage increases allowed without penalty were kept well below the expected rate of inflation; the
penalties for wage increases above the allowed monthly limits were substantially incresed, up to 500
percent of the excess.



-3 -
Structure of the SAL
8.     The SAL was first considered in October 1989 in the context of the policy discussions on the new
Government's stabilization and systemic reform efforts. It was appraised in February/March 1990,
negotiated in June 1990, and approved on July 31, 1990. It thus closely followed the launching of ETP
and the IMF Standby Arrangements program. The SAL was meant to be the first in a series of
adjustment operations (including SECALs and hybrid loans) to be executed over a number of years in
support of the various aspects of the ETP.2
9.     Patterned on the very architecture of the ETP, the SAL conditionality pursued three broad
objectives: stabilization and the progressive restoration of creditworthiness (including adequate burden
sharing among creditors), structural reform towards the establishment of a market economy, and creation
of a social safety net. The macroeconomic framework for the SAL was elaborated in close coordination
with the program supported by the IMF. A medium-term framework and financing plan was agreed with
the Government with specific policies and performance monitoring criteria spelled in the agreed
Memorandum of Development Policy.
10.    In addition to these macroeconomic policy understandings (which also included specific actions
on subsidies and pricing) the SAL supported reform initiatives in microeconomic core areas (see part III:
Status of Loan Covenants and Specific Measures). First, in the broad area of State-Owned Enterprise
(SOE) privatization and restructuring, and private sector development, the emphasis was on supporting
development of appropriate legislation to define the "rules of the game" (including privatization,
demnonopolization and competition) and to support the establishment of an adequate institutional
framnework for privatization and for enterprise restructuring, within sound environmnental policies.
Second, in the area of financial sector reform, the emphasis was on improved banking regulation and
supervision, introduction of adequate accounting and auditing standards (also applicable to non-financial
enterprises), and strengthening and ultimately phased restructuring of the banking system. Third, reform
of prices and market structures was sought through the abolition of subsidies on energy and
transportation, and a program for demonopolization of agricultural distribution channels. Fourth, in the
social safety net, the emphasis was on the establishment of an adequate unemployment benefits system,
provision of employment services, training, small-business creation, the development of a program of
minimum social assistance, and health policy reform.
11.    The core components of the SAL were viewed as crucial for the success of the ETP. The
enterprise and financial sector components were designed to establish financial discipline at the enterprise
level which was foreseen as indispensable to eliminate the quasi-fiscal deficit. The social component, in
turn, was needed to mitigate the impact on employment and income, foster labor redeployment, and make
the program politically feasible. As such, the SAL covered a wide range of areas and issues; this was
reflected in a multiplicity of second-tranche release conditions (eight) covering a broad range of subjects.
While this may not be generally desirable as it makes it difficult to monitor and assess compliance, in the
2/     The Financial Institutions Development Loan and the Privatization and Restructuring Project (Loans No.
3341 and 3342) were approved on June 11,1991. They are hybrid operations intended to support financial
sector reform and modernization, and privatization and enterprise restructuring, respectively. In addition,
the Employment Services Project (Loan No. 3338 approved on June 4, 1991) is in direct support of
measures to favor labor market mobility and retraining; and the FY91 Heat Supply project included a
quick-disbursing component to support price reform in the energy sector.



- 4 -
case of the SAL the individual policy measures were very much part of a coherent package, often self-
reinforcing in nature.
E.    Accomplishments of the A4justment Program and Impact of Reform
12.    Given the difficult circumstances in which Poland began its stabilization and structural reforns,
the implementation of the policies agreed under the SAL can be considered relatively successful. The
main objective of halting hyperinflation was quickly achieved. In conjunction with the particularly
unfavorable shock provided by the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) trade collapse and
some domestic factors, the recessionary effects of the stabilization produced a cumulative decline in
official GDP of some 20 percent during 1990-91. In other important areas of the ETP--structural
transformation, especially in the areas of privatization and changes in corporate governance in SOEs--
implementation was considerably slower than the initial, high expectations. But, four years after the rtart
of the ETP, Poland has made major progress in moving towards a market-oriented economy that will
eventually integrate in the Eurcpean Community. Economic growth resumed in 1992 and was strong in
1993.  The agenda for reform, however, is not yet complete:  further efforts, particularly in the
restructuring and privatization of SOEs, and in the financial sectors, need to be brought to fruition.
Stabilization Accomplishments
13.    The "shock" nature of the ETP attracted the greatest controversy at home and abroad in the first
two years of its implementation. The combination of a sharp devaluation, the fixing of the exchange rate,
and a (at least initially) restrictive stance of fiscal and monetary policies, together with an undershooting
of wage awards at the beginning of 1990, resulted in a quick decline in inflation. Average annual inflation
declined from almost 600 percent in 1990 to 70 percent in 1991, to 43 percent in 1992 and 37 percent
in 1993. But a heavy price was paid up-front, and GDP fell substantially both in 1990 and 1991.
Unemployment has emerged and settled above Western European averages. From this point of view,
the earlier expectations of the SAL were not met, and Poland struggled, between the end of 1991 and
1992, to re-tune its economic policies to the more adverse environment. Among other things, this
prevented reaching an agreement with the IMF on a Stand-by arrangement until early 1993, and delayed
processing of other adjustment operations by the Bank.
14.    While the resumption of growth in 1992 and 1993 now gives cause for greater optimism, during
the first two years of the implementation of the ETP there was considerable controversy over what was
perceived by some as an excessive restrictive stance of policies. However, it is unlikely that a feasible,
less restrictive alternative could have been implemented at the end of 1989, given the peculiar political
circumstances and the existing state of hyperinflation. Nor it is clear that any room for manoeuvre
existed for expansionary policy in 1991, when the economy was forced to absorb a much greater-than-
anticipated shock resulting from the collapse of the CMEA.
15.    This is not to say that short-term macroeconomic management was free of faults. Fiscal policy
design in 1990-91, for instance, failed to fully take into account the effects of the massive increase in
social expenditures that resulted from the swelling of pensioners' ranks after the transformation process
began. An inadequate assessment was also made of the effects on government revenues of the
disappearance of the "paper profits" that had been generated in the enterprise sector in 1989-90 as a result
of the hyperinflation and of the effects of the massive reduction in subsidies on enterprises' profitability.
The underlying weakness of public finances was thus underestimated, and, coupled with an attempt to



- 5 -
relax policies at the end of 1990, led to an excessively expansionary stance in 1991 and 1992. Indeed,
the continued underlying weakness of the fiscal accounts is one of the most worrisome legacies of the
ETP, which was instead meant to restore fiscal viability. The fixed exchange rate policy, in turn, may
have contributed to a worsening of the recession, particularly in early 1991, as the exchange rate
progressively appreciated, and the wage policy guidelines were unable to make wage growth compatible
with a stable exchange rate. Nevertheless, it must also be remembered that Poland was indeed at the
forefront of the Eastern European reform effort. Little guidance was available to confront new problems.
The fact that, at the beginning of 1994, inflation is slowly but steadily converging to Western European
levels, and that growth seems to be firmly established, together with a marked evidence of positive supply
response, is a major sign of the overall success in the implementation of the ETP.
Structural Accomplishments
16.   The structural policies of the first two years of the ETP resulted in considerable progress towards
establishing a market economy. The almost instantaneous disappearance of shortages and queues was the
first evidence of a changing economic environment. After four years of reforns, Polish society has been
radically, and perhaps irreversibly, transformed. In most of the policy areas supported by the SAL
progress is considerable and visible.
17.   Not all expectations have been met. A sharp differential, in particular, has obtained in the
performance of the private and SOE sectors. Private sector activity has provided the main engine of
transformation and growth in the economy. First concentrated in trade and commerce, private sector
activity has extended, in a substantial way, to industry and construction, where it accounts for over half
and a third of output, respectively. Overall, about half of Poland's GDP is now produced by the private
sector, up from about one third in 1989. Growth of private sector has partly been spurred by the
privatization process.  Representing a critical area of conditionality of the SAL, the process has
continued, albeit at a slower pace than anticipated.
18.    The SOE sector has had great difficulties in adjusting to the new economic conditions. External
shocks (notably the demise of the USSR and of the CMEA trading arrangements), as well as the effects
of the abolition of the complex system of subsidies, particularly on energy, played an important role in
depressing industrial production in 1990 and 1991. This contributed significantly to the fall in output
during that period. The effects of the recession, however, were compounded by internal management
problems in the SOEs, whose performance (as evidenced by rising unit labor costs and declining
productivity and profitability) deteriorated substantially in these two years. And, despite the abatement
of the recession in the SOE sector as well, its financial position has remained very weak in 1992 and
shown very uneven improvements in 1993. Many enterprises are severely constrained by the burden of
the debt accumulated in the past two years as a result of the lack of restructuring and adjustment to new
market conditions. Some of them are probably not economically viable, but have been allowed to continue
to operate for lack of a viable exit mechanism and concern about rising unemployment.
19.   The unsatisfactory performance of large SOEs is also at the core of the troubles experienced both
in public finance and in the banking sector, since these SOEs are the largest taxpayers and the largest
borrowers from the banking system. In the financial sector, however, considerable progress has been
made, starting 1992, in isolating the problem cases, and in reforming banking practices.
20.    The continuing SOE crisis has been one of the main reasons for the deterioration in public
finances, which poses a continuing threat to macroeconomic stability. In short, lower SOE profitu have



- 6 -
resulted in lower profit tax revenues; at the same time, most of new growth comes from new sectors and
entrepreneurs which are difficult to tax in the absence of a tax system reform. This must involve not only
legislation (which has been largely accomplished by 1993), but also, and perhaps more importantly,
reform of the administration, a more complex task that has proven elusive so far.
21.    In the social safety net area, progress made on some fronts (particularly in the rationalization of
the unemployment bcnefits system) has been accompanied by setbacks in others (particularly on pension
reform). In this critical area, social consensus is paramount for the establishment of viable schemes.
Naturally, this consensus is more difficult to secure when large number of people are being displaced
because of the structural transformation of the economy.
Institutional and Political Constraints
22.    A number of factors were at the root of the slower than expected implementation of structural
policies. The lack of appropriate institutions to deal with new problems was undoubtedly a major
constraint. Delays in SOE privatization were due to insufficient implementation capability of institutions
responsible for privatization and enterprise restructuring. These stemmed from interrelated deficiencies,
such as insufficient overall staffing and experience of existing staff or newly recruited personnel; lack of
clarity in the guidelines for selecting the most appropriate privatization track; limited progress in the
privatization at the regional and municipal level; the negative effect of the recession on the dynamnics of
privatization; and the existence of large social infrastructure supported by SOE's which acts as a deterrent
to privatization. Similarly, in the financial sector, the lack of central and commercial banking expertise,
as well as the unclear or undeveloped legal and supervisory framework were obstacles not likely to be
overcome in a short period of time.
23.    A second important factor was provided by the disagreement over policy directions. A number
of crucial programs underpinning the ETP depended very much on parliamentary approval (from Mass
Privatization, to pension reform, to approval of banking law, etc.) Initially, the Sejm elected in 1989
went along with the reformn proposals of the government, but as time progressed, reaching consensus on
politically difficult issues became virtually impossible. Starting the second half of 1991, little or no
parliarnentary action was taken on a number of fronts, thus leading to a generalized slow-down in policy
implementation.
24.    Last but not least, given the highly variable economic condition prevailing during the 1990-92
period, the attention of the policy-makers was increasingly been diverted to meeting the short-term
challenges posed by the deterioration in the budgetary position of the state. This was undoubtedly a
major factor in focussing the attention on short-term measures which, while necessary to arrest
macroeconomic deterioration, were not conducive to setting up (and passing through the political process)
needed reforms. The difficulties in the execution of policies were mirrored in the inability of Poland to
comply with IMF covenants both under the first Stand-by and the second EFF (which, approved in April
1991, became inoperative by the fall of the same year).



-7-
F.     Monitoring and Implementation
Compliance with Conditionality
25.    SAL conditionality was a mixture of broad policy understandings and specific actions.' Thus,
monitoring and supervision emphasized both compliance with specific conditions and quality of economic
policy dialogue. The main counterpart to the SAL was provided by the Ministry of Finance, but
consultations were held with a number of other institutions (National Bank of Poland, Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations, Ministry of Privatization, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Central Statistical
Office, Central Planning Office, etc.) Four SAL supervision mission visited Poland between October
1990 and July 1991. The first supervision mission found that the Program was in generally implemented
as agreed.  While noting that there appeared to be early signs of recovery, the most serious concern
expressed regarded the persistence of greater-than-expected inflation, together with the lack of
disbursements (discussed below). In order to remedy the first problem, it was proposed that conclusion
of negotiations with the IMF on continuation of the Stand-By Arrangement should be given high priority.
The second supervision mission (January-February 1991), while noting that an agreement with the IMF
had been reached in principle, identified a number of outstanding issues on which action was needed
before second tranche release could be recommended. In this context, a "Memorandum of Economic
Reforn and Medium-Term Policies" that outlined the objectives and policies for the period 1991-93 was
prepared by the Polish Government in March 1991, with the joint support of Bank and IMF staff.
26.    The third supervision mission found that progress had been made towards substantial compliance
with second-tranche release conditions. These included: adherence to the macroeconomic framework;
adoption of prudential regulation; external auditing of at least 13 banking institutions; agreement on the
draft 1991 budget within an adequate medium-term fiscal framework; specific actions program for
further demonopolization of food economy, transportation, and trade; satisfactory implementation of legal
framework for enterprise restructuring/privatization/private sector development; establishment of Agency
for Industrial Restructuring and adoption of guidelines for restructuring; and review and possible revision
of unemployment benefits etc. A waiver was however requested by the authorities on June 10, 1991 with
regard to one of the elements of the second tranche condition linking the government budget and subsidy
policy. While all other elements were in place at the time of the request, the one relating to domestic
heat and hot water supply tariffs was not met as scheduled. The request for waiver was accepted because
of the substantial compliance with all other conditions, and of the authorities' commitment to a revised
implementation schedule, which was incorporated as an item of conditionality in the Heat Supply
Restructuring Project. The World Bank Executive Board approved the proposed waiver, and authorized
disbursement of the second tranche on August 5, 1991.
4/    In a somewhat innovative fashion, the SAL agreement specified that monitoring of macroeconomic
conditionality was to be done through assessment of compliance with a number of indicators, some of
which more strictly of policy performance, and others of economic outcomes. Indicators included: the
inflation rate; gross international reserves; current and capital accounts of the balance of payments; debt
indicators; GDP growth; gross domestic savings; Investment/ODP ratio; employment an unemployment;
and a number of policy variables, such as nominal exchange and interest rates; fiscal deficit; net domestic
credit; import tariffs; price policy; nominal wages.While the objective of this part of the conditionality was
to render explicit the stick-yard by which macroeconomic performance would be judged, it is unclear
whether much significance should have been given to compliance or non-compliance with ex-post outcomes,
which are outside the control of the policy authorities. It is also unclear what, if any, consequence would
have been triggered by partial lack of compliance.



- 8 -
27.    The final supervision mission visited Poland in July 1991. At that point, signs of further
deterioration of the macroeconomic situation, largely as a result of the greater-than-expected CMEA
shock, were becoming evident.  The mission pointed out that the protracted recession was being
compounded by the lack of adjustment in the SOEs, and that problems in the fiscal and financial areas
would need to be confronted in the near future. As discussed, the deteriorating macroeconomic
conditions led to a suspension of the IMF EFF, and thereafter to protracted difficulties in re-tuning
economic policies to the harder-than-expected external environment.
28.    Further reviews of implementation of structural reforms were undertaken during the preparation
of Financial Institution Development Loan and Privatization and Restructuring Project, and the policy
dialogue that has continued intensely in the past two years (discussions of the CEM in February-March
1992, preparation of the EFSAL over a number of months, macroeconomic monitoring missions, etc.).
Indeed, the about 40 staff weeks formally expended on supervision of the SAL only reflect a small part
of the intensity of the actual policy dialogue.
Loan Disbursement and Auditing
29.    The loan was to finance all imports except those defined by usual small negative list of ineligible
items such as arms, nuclear reactors and parts, and luxury products. The proceeds of the loan were
disbursed in two tranches (first $100 million and second $200 million) according to procurement
procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the Loan Agreement.
30.   Initially, difficulties were encountered on the Polish side in understanding the World Bank's
requirements for documentation of import expenditures and in setting up the machinery needed to deal
with the relevant paperwork. Some of the difficulties were substantive, since a large portion of the
external trade of Poland had been conducted under arrangements (bilateral agreements, non-convertible
currency trading) which were not compatible with World Bank procurement guidelines. There were also
few incentives for the State Trading enterprises to furnish the relevant documentation.   Technical
assistance was provided by the Bank both to the National Bank of Poland and to the Ministry of Finance.
After some initial delays, the tempo of disbursements picked up substantially, and indeed the loan was
fully disbursed on January 7, 1992, shortly after the original expected closing date.
31.    The project accounts including Statements of Expenditures were audited by an independent
auditor; the audit report was received on March 31, 1992. The Bank had previously agreed to
consolidate the first and second audits originally due under the loan agreement, in view of the expected
full disbursement of the funds by the time the first audit would have been ready.
Evolution of Country Relations
32.    Four years after the ETP was launched and three and a half years after the SAL, World Bank
policy dialogue and lending in Poland have greatly expanded. In its continued dialogue on economic
issues with the Polish government, the Bank has provided important inputs at crucial times in the
elaboration of the economic reforms. Following the SAL framnework, in the areas of privatization and
enterprise restructuring, agricultural policies, social sectors reform, and reform of the social safety net,
the Bank has contributed practical advice as well as international perspective, helping the governrnent
focus its efforts and avoiding pitfalls.



- 9 -
33.    As of December 31, 1993, the Bank has committed 26 loans to Poland for US$3.6 billion
equivalent. In addition to the SAL, these operations support reforms and investments in industry, agro-
industry, financial sector, railways, environment, energy, telecommunication, employment promotion and
services, health services development, and housing. Lending concentrated in fast disbursing or hybrid
operations, directly in support of initial reform measures (commitments in this category amounted to US$
1.35 billion equivalent, or 38 percent of total) and in financial intermediation lines (US$793 million
equivalent, or 20 percent in total). The overall program was relatively intensive in technical assistance,
both through up-stream strategy papers (Agriculture, Health, Housing) and significant TA components
embodied in the loans (e.g. six energy sub-sector restructuring studies which laid the foundation for
restructuring this sector). More recently, a number of investment operations have been added to the
portfolio; these are expected to become progressively more important in the future Bank lending.
34.    Regarding the quality of portfolio, problems that are common to a rapidly expanding portfolio
in a new member country have been experienced in Poland as well. However, considerable progress has
been made on building counterpart capacity, tailoring loan design to overcome institutional weaknesses,
and taking appropriate remedial actions when necessary. Disbursements under several outstanding lines
of credit, however, remain very slow. Adjustment loans (including the SAL) can be considered relatively
successful, in view of the difficult overall environment. In a number of operations, collaboration with
the authorities has continued, and proved fruitful, even during difficult transitional periods. Non-
compliance with policy covenants has been limited, and the government on several occasions later on
complied with conditions that may have been missed, an indication of the high degree of ownership of
the reform programs supported by those operations. Operationally, difficulties were initially encountered
in setting up the required machinery for tranche disbursement, but an intense effort of assistance from
the Bank has resulted in significant progress, and the Polish authorities are now in position to take full
advantage of balance-of-payments support when needed.
35.    Bank adjustment and investment operations have been complemented by extensive economic and
sector work. The substantial Bank presence was achieved in each of the major areas of reform, and the
Bank support offered a maximum chance of success of the reform. The Bank has thus very actively
cooperated with the Government.
G.    Conclusions and Lessons Learned
36.    The above discussion can be summed up as consisting of an answer to two basic questions. First,
was the economic strategy supported by the SAL appropriate to the task, and was the execution of
policies consistent with that strategy? Second, was the design of the loan conditionality effective in
helping to design the strategy and pursue its objectives?   The main lessons can be summarized as
follows:
A.    The reforms under the ETP were among the first and most radical in Eastern Europe.
Success was obtained in a number of areas, most importantly economic stabilization,
although at a higher price than originally expected. While it is sterile to ask whether a
different, less radical approach might have yielded better results, it is unquestionable to
argue that the Polish experience has provided important lessons on the appropriate
sequencing of reforms.



- 10-
B.     First, regarding SOE reform, a major lesson of the SAL experience is that exclusive
reliance on indirect controls (through tax-based income policies and enforcement of
compulsory dividends) will not always suffice to stimulate business-like behavior. Some
sectors and enterprises learned very quickly to utilize their strategic or political weight
to postpone internal adjustment, and continued to operate at a loss, circumventing in
various ways the hard budget constraints. In these cases, an increased exercise of the
ownership function by the treasury, including the provision of sufficient resources to
cushion the social effects of adjustment, is a necessary condition for arresting enterprise
losses and the potential threats to the budget.
C.     Second, in Poland like in other Eastern European countries, the full impact of the
reforms on the financial health of the enterprise and financial sector did not materialize
immediately. Yet, stemming from the deteriorating perfornance of enterprises, the
deterioration of the quality of bank portfolios turned out to be the most important order
of the day following the initial phase of reforms. The second stage of the Polish reforms,
which began rcughly in 1992 and to which the Bank is lending extensive support, has
decidedly confronted these problems.
D.    Third, public sector finances entered a state of structural crisis that will require many
years and considerable political and social consensus to overcome. The dissolution of
the traditional revenue base of the state and the explosion of social expenditures due to
the retrenchmnent of the SOEs are trademarks of all former socialist economies. Hence,
early and appropriate weight should be given to public sector reform.
E.     Fourth, institutional reform is also paramount at all levels, and it is likely to pose a major
constraint, possibly more difficult to overcome than others. While the SAL did pay
attention to several institutional aspects of the reform, an overall strategy, involving the
structure of the state administration and its human resources, should be pursued at an
early stage.
F.     Finally, the SAL was in direct support to a broad, initial strategy of reform. It was
explicitly meant to show World Bank backing for the unprecedented effort, and was
therefore very broadly designed. It was intended to be followed by other sector-specific
operations, which were felt to be needed better to specify the path for individual reforms.
Overall, this approach has worked well. Subsequent policy discussions have built on the
SAL conditionality; sectoral concentration has allowed to deepen dialogue and analysis.
This lending sequence would appear broadly appropriate under similar circumstances.



- 11 -
PART II: LOAN REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.     Government Objectives and Intentions Regarding the Medium-term  Economic Program
Supported by SAL (1990-1992).
1.    The principal challenge placed before the Polish Govermnent in 1990-1992 was transformation
of the economy from centrally-administered into a decentralized economy regulated by free-market
mechanisms. Meeting this challenge would create the prerequisites for improving efficiency in economic
management, which in further perspective would become the basis for economic growth.
2.    It was difficult to carry out this intention because of the existing hyper-inflation and substantial
foreign debt. Thus, macro-economic stabilization, as well as foreign debt rescheduling became the
necessary prerequisites for success of the process of systemic changes. Parallel to the stabilization
program, structural reforms were planned in the following areas: creation of the private sector, reform
of the public finance system, elimination of the extensive system of subsidies and demonopolization of
the agricultural market. The last, but no less important element of the planned strategy was to create an
effective system of social security that would alleviate the social costs of system transformation.
II.    The Macro-economic Framework of SAL
3.     The program, which was to be commenced on 1 January 1990, had two major goals: macro-
economic stabilization and acceleration of the transition of the economic system into market mechanisms.
The following elements made up the stabilization program:
a)    to achieve financial equilibrium of the state budget;
b)    to make the credit policy more stringent, to introduce positive real interest rates;
c)    to make the foreign-exchange rate uniform, to eliminate restrictions in foreign commodity
trading;
d)    incomplete wage indexation in relation to prices of consumer goods.
The program of structural changes aimed to:
a)    implement equality of all forms of ownership;
b)     eliminate the majority of official prices;
c)    remove the remaining elements of the system of central distribution of resources;
d)    remove limitations of sales and dimensions of private farms;
e)     establish, as of December 1989, the Labor Fund as a source of unemployment benefits.
III.   Execution of the Conditons of SAL
4.    Implementation of the Economic Transformation Program (ETP) is considered successful in
general. The main goals of the program have been achieved; Poland has made significant progress in the
direction of shaping a market economy. Inflation has been visibly curbed, which in combination with the
strict budgetary restrictions and internal convertibility of the zloty has strengthened the role of money.
Thanks to the elimination of the system of subsidies, the structure of prices corresponds much better to
the actual structure of costs and preferences. Privatization of banks has been prepared, creating the
groundwork for a modern banking system and capital market. Sectors have been made oqual as regards



- 12 -
sales and income taxes. A general reform of the tax system has been prepared, based on principles similar
to those in force in Western European countries, the result of which was the introduction of personal
income tax on 1 January 1992. In the course of implementation of the Program some unfavorable - albeit
earlier predicted - circumstances occurred, which made it difficult to continue earlier plans. Particularly
negative effects were evoked by the breakdown of the eastern market with the dissolution of the CMEA.
This fact, as well as the difficulties state enterprises experience in adjustment to the new economic
situation led to deeper recessionary trends, which in 1990-1991 caused the GNP to drop by about 20%.
In the outcome, the costs of measures taken up turned out to be much higher than had been initially
expected.
IV.   Difficulties in Meeting SAL Condiions Resulting from the Economic Situation
S.    Implementation of the ETP has been largely dependent on the degree of social acceptance. It must
be said that for a long time Polish society showed much understanding for the introduced reforms,
accepting even a drastic fall of a modest standard of living. However, the rapidly increasing social costs
of the transformation, especially the quick growth of unemployment, the intensifying pauperization of vast
groups of people and the lack of social security began to pose a threat to execution of the Program
according to schedule. This forced the government to slow down implementation or to mitigate the certain
essential solutions. An example here is the Mass Privatization Program. At the same time, the needs of
the social sphere increased rapidly, while expenditures for various social safety nets rose to the rank of
a foremost problem of public finances of the state, by this affecting possibilities of economic growth.
V.    Difficulties in Metting SAL Conditons Resulting from Technical Loan SerWveing
6.     Difficulties related with obtaining import documentation necessary to start the Quick
Disbursement Money (QDM) procedure appeared already in the first period of implementation of SAL
and remained a characteristic feature during the entire period of utilization of this loan as well as the
structural components of succeeding loans. In the beginning difficulties resulted from a lack of experience
and practical knowledge of the procurement and disbursement procedures of the World Bank. After the
period of gathering experience during the execution of the First Tranche of the loan, the Ministry of
Finance and the National Bank of Poland succeeded in raising the efficiency of the system of obtaining
suitable import docunentation from Polish foreign trade enterprises, Execution of the Second Tranche
of the loan progressed quickly and efficiently.
7.     However, with the advancement of structural and systemic changes In the Polish economy, new
unexpected impediments have appeared in the execution of the QDM components. The process of
decentralization embraced also the sector of foreign trading of goods and services. Newly independent
foreign-trade state enterprises began operating in conditions of a free market and competition from newly
arising private companies engaged in foreign trading. In addition, the deteriorating financial standing of
final receivers of imports and the breakdown of the Soviet market led to the disintegration of a large
portion of specialized importers into smaller enterprises with modest annual turnover and a limited
conunodity structure of imports. At the same time, the lack of convertible currencies of contractors from
the USSR led to the formation and vast use of barter and tie-in transactions. Liberalization of foreign
trade and tree-market economic rules also forced importers to restructure their own enterprises and to
introduce changes in the contract procedures used.
8.     The above reasons significantly have limited possibilities of obtaining suitable documentation from
importers needed to carry out World Bank loans assigned for structural adjustment, which in turn has



X 13 -
contributed to an unfavorable change of the initial disbursement time-table and prolongation of the period
of utilization of resources and by the same has hampered loan execution. The Polish side, in cooperation
with the World Bank, is trying to improve the system of procurement and retention by expanding the
network of importers capable of supplying documentation on the terms required by the Bank and to raise
to the maximum the technique of retention and transfer of documents and data.
9.    Taking into consideration the Bank procedures and the hitherto correct execution of the QDM
components by Poland, the conclusion arises that much can still be done in the area of improving
acquisition of documents necessary to carry out structural loans.
VI.   Development of Mutual Relations Between Poland and the World Bank During the Period of
SAL Implementation
10.   Directly after Poland settled the first Stand-by agreement with the International Monetary Fund
at the end of 1989, the World Bank commnenced implementation of the credit program for our country.
After several months of mutual consultations, in 1990 the first loan agreements were signed, in this the
SAL agreement. Apart from the loan appropriated for financing structural changes, the remaining loans,
totalling 1,077.75 million US$ in 1990, were appropriated mainly for financing development of:
-      pro-export undertakings in industry and the agro-food sector,
-      the transport sector,
-      the energy sector,
environmental protection.
11.   In the subsequent two years Poland drew loans from the World Bank for the total sum of 1,475
million USS (1,085 mn USS in 1991 and 390 mn USS In 1992). In the loans granted by the World Bank
in 1991 there were components to support the government policy In specific economic sectors, (Quick
Disbursement Money - 300 million USS) appropriated for financing structural changes of the energy
sector (75 million USS) and the financial-banking sector (150 million USS) and to support processes of
privatization and restructuring of enterprises (75 million USS). The remaining loans concluded in 1991
were assigned for financing development of:
the energy sector,
telecommunications,
the agricultural sector,
the labor market.
12.   In 1992 there were no loans with QDM components. The remaining loans were granted to support
development of:
the private sector,
the health services,
housing construction.
13.   The use of World Bank loans has made it possible for Poland to effectively support the program
of implemented reforms and has broadened access to new economic solutions on the macro and micro
scale.



- 14 -
14.   Initial Implementation of the loau encountered obstacles caused mainly by lnstitutional-legal
restrictions, a lack of experience in operating World Bank loans and the novel character of the
implemented reforms. As mutual cooperation developed and with the development of other international
ties of Poland, the causes of slow implementation and absorption of loans obtained by Poland from the
World Bank have been removed or significantly limited.
15.   Generally speaking, in 1990-1992 loan absorption progressed in accordance with the disbursement
time-table and predictions characteristic for the above period (1990 - 54.06 million USS, 1991 - 347.35
million USS, 1992 - 344.04 million USS). Altogether, until the end of 1992, 746.45 million USS were
utilized. This is 29.24% of the total amount of loans granted in this period (2,552.75 million USS).
16.    The quick progress of structural changes in economic sectors, the implementation of new
institutional-legal structures, decentralization of economic management and qualitative changes of social-
economic relations have led to a new economic-social situation in the country, appropriate to a market
economy. This has given rise to unexpected impediments of the planned implementation of World Bank
loans - both adjustment and investment loans. In some cases, the scheme and terms of most of the loans,
drawn up during the initial phase of economic changes, are no longer suitable for the development of the
economic situation of 1991-1992 and have become a factor that hampers loan utilization. In certain cases
if World Bank loans are to continue to act as a stimulant of structural changes, their structure and
conditions should be reassessed. To work out a mechanism adjusting the scope of long-term goals of
World Bank loans and the related procedures to the new challenges of the developing economy becomes
the basic requirement of proper credit utilization.
VII.   Conclusions
17.    The SAL assistance program can be regarded as successfully completed. During the period of
loan implementation the Polish government attained most of the goals set in the Program. These include
first of all:
*     definite curbing of inflation,
*      attainment of relative macro-economic equilibrium,
-      implementation of a number of structural changes,
-      the appearance of the first symptoms of economic recovery.
18.    Next to the unquestionable achievements of recent years many problems of the Polish economy
remain to be solved.
These include first of all:
-      the still unsatisfactory state of public finances, burdened with a high external and internal
debt. Improvement in this area can be achieved by decisively raising effectiveness of
collecting budgetary income and rationalization of expenditures;
-      the low earning capacity of enterprises, which is especially unfavorable not only for
budgetary income but also from the point of view of the substantial investment needs of
the economy;
-      the ever increasing burdening of the state budget with social welfare costs in relation with
the rising unemployment, of this especially structural unemployment, the expanding scope
of indigence and commitments towards retirees and other pension receivers.



- 15 -
The Basic Macro-economic Values
Previous year - 100
Years             1989              1990              1991              1992
GNP              100.2              88.4              92.4             101.5
Inflation          398.5             580.1             150.9             136.6
Costs of Domestic Debt Servicing
In billion zlotys
Years                 1990                   1991                   1992
Costs                   -                    2.6                    20.3



- 16 -
PART III: STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS AND SPECIFIC MEASURES
Table 1: Status of Loan Covenants
Type of         Agreement                                          Status of
Covenant        Section                    Covenant                Cornplianc
Management      LA 3.01 (a)  The Borrower and the Bank shall from   Complied
Operation                     time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the process
achieved in carrying out the Program
and the actions specified
Management      LA 3.01 (b)  Prior to each such exchange of view, the  Complied
Operation                     Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such a details the Bank shall
reasonably request
Management      LA 3.03 (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to  Complied
Operation                     be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan
Management      LA 3.03 (b)  To have all records and accounts for  Complied
Operation                     each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank



- 17 -
Table 2: Status of Specific Measures for Second Tranche Release
Measure                                                                        Status of
Com2liance
(i)    Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework, consistent with  Complied
objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of indicators
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
(ii)    Finalization and submission to the Sejm for adoption of a draft 1991  Partially waived
Central Government Budget (including a public investment plan) which is
consistent with the Borrower's objective of rationalizing policies related
to energy and transportation pricing, social programs, public investments
and producer and consumer subsidies, including the progressive phasing
out of housing subsidies.
(iii)   Adoption of satisfactory action program to further demonopolization of  Complied
economic activities within the food economy, transportation and trade
sub-sectors.
(iv)    Establishment of an agency for industrial restructuring and an agency for  Complied
enterprise ownership changes and satisfactory adoption of guidelines for
enterprise restructuring and privatization.
(v)    Adoption of legislative and other measures adequate to ensure: (a) the  Complied
proper supervision of banking institutions on the basis of appropriate
prudential regulations; and (b) the application by economic units of
appropriate accounting and auditing standards.
(vi)    Completion, under term  of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the  Complied
auditing of the financial statements of at least thirteen banking
institutions, and adoption of suitable action plans for the further
development and restructuring of at least nine individual commercial
banks. The banking institution and commercial banks, referred to this
paragraph, shall be those selected by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
(vii)   Completion of a review, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Complied
Bank, of the provisions of unemployment benefits, and based on the
results of such review, introduction of appropriate revisions to such
benefits, with reference to the established poverty limit.
(viii)  Finalization and submission to the Sejm for enactment of a satisfactory  Complied
draft law for the consolidation of existing provisions for income tested
cash benefits, institutional care and other benefits in kind, and the
development and application of an information system adequate to ensure
the proper monitoring of the provision and delivery of such benefits in
kind.



.18 -
PART IVI BASIC DATA SHEET
AMOUNTS (US$300M)
TABLE 1: LOAN DATA
As of 12/312
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled    Repaid    Outstanding
Loan No. 32470              300          300          -          -           300
Original Loan Data              Actua
Initiating Memorandum                          02/07/90                  02/07/90
Appraisal                                      02/15i90                  02/15/90
Negotiations                                   06/11/90                  06/11/90
Board Approval                                 07/31/90                  07/31/90
Loan Agreement                                08/31/90                   08/31/90
Effectiveness                                  10/01/90                  10/01/90
Loan Closing                                   12/31/91                  12/31/91
Date of Last Disbursement                                                01/07/92
Table 2: CUMLA TIVE LOAN DISBURSEMEN
EX2
(i)  Planned                    300
(ii)   Actual                   300
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)          100



- 19 -
Table 3: MISSION DATA
No. of        No. of                  Staff       Date of
Month. Year   WCk         Persons     Weeks       Report
Preparation I             12/89         2           7           14           12/21/89
Appraisal                 02/90         2           12          24          03/15/90
Supervision I             10/90         3          6            18           11/02/90
Supervision II           01/1991        2 1/2       8           20          02/14/91
Supervision III          04/1991         1          2           2           05/03/91
Table 4: FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
POLAND   Financial Inst. Dev. Loan                    (FIDL)   06/91       US$200m
POLAND   Privatization and Restructuring Project       (PRP)    06/91      US$280m
POLAND   Heat Supply                                  (HS)       06/91     US$75m
POLAND   Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan           (ASAL)   05/93       US$300m
POLAND   Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment    (EFSAL)  05/93      US$450m
Loan
Staffweeks for Product: 7POLPA025
Manager: 27410
Name: SAL
FY: 91
In FY89    In FY90      In FY91  In FY92  In FY93   TOTAL
Task        Swk         Sk          Swk
LENA                    37.6                                        37.6
LENN                    30.2        5,2                             35.4
LENP                    62.7                                        62.7
Subtotal                130.5        5.2                           135.7
PCR                                                      4.3        4.3
SPN                                 51.3       2.0                 53.4
Subtotal                            51.3       2.0       4.3       57.7



