- ~-~>         <I  MWOMI Baink 
MfOF"CAL OM
--  -   ~~~~-     _      -  -  -                             __-524-M
-a            e      . ..mm,.                               n.         0
-~~~    3--A  A  MURqh* 1
C-0
j~~~~~~.~
lid & mok u a rstc"    U?&OITANW  n,.-we                      1-d    tm
-.                     -SI            -S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oO
AdI, ffkd  oit    l                                 A?ut   ayntatSiab   w



VSK. 00'   Zr 1,4OCr  z"1.  '3"
WEg=A
.3'
BRG                           f rRC"truct4rit  tg oft thI  (.)ci?ogp 
''3"''A       in*r0 6' iwa0         w    I' I
IFI~ ~ ~ ~~~" 'i"      Itr'to'lFiacav3fimo
pa ~ ~ ~~"              Pr"Eu   zto   c
0 R             P--s ERail'3svnt.ut
-ROD                     Q=Oucy Rtettion"Schem
''3~TR                                                       __ fealeRb-aPtzt, .
WWd~~~           -        ~~             ~         -&ssiDstancr e-
( K   C P I             -   -             ~ Y . ,



FMR OFFICIL USK ONLY
-  Table of Contma     - .
LOAN AM~ PROGRAX                            . . . ..... ... . . . . . . . . . .  i
13101? AND            lowNIN  OF 0 TM pa IRSN . ~..... . .. . .           1
RNTR ion .. C............. .                            ...
PART!I. THEE COIY  .          .     ...... .       10 ....
A.   'Recent Developments . ......... . .. . ......
B,    Structure,of thelEconomy          ..............2
C.   External Igbalances .                                   4
D).   Economic Performance--during the last two years.       5
PART II   THE CONOMIC TRASFORNATIOF PROGRM (ETV) .....6
A.   Background and-Overview ........0.....                   6
B.    Summary of the Stabilization Compouent and
Performance to Date. ..i ............8
1. The Program .      . ................8
2-Performance to Date........... . ...
C.   The gtrctural Adjustment Comonent .........            10o
-I. Introduction............... . . .   10
-2. Main Struttuwal Eleents of the ETP s
Adjustment Component ....................           10
()Fiscal Policy (Subsidies, Pricing-
--Oand                          U.I.t .......... .....
(2)   adn D ollt ......T.         .......       16
(3) Enterprise Sector Reform..... 19
'           (4) CoSpetitiunandDeregufation .........         25
(5) Environmant . . .......................26
(6) Financial Sector Reform.........           .28
(7)D Social Safety Net ....................     32
D.   Medium-Term Perspective and Ezternal
FiS.c   RequiraDents       . ........................    37
PART III - THE PROPOSED SAL...................6.. . . .43
A.   Origin and Objectives . . ..................3.......   6
B.   Components and Conitionlity      ....4.
C.   LmAn 1 out, Cofinancing-and Traching   ...             48
Date   ...............................BeefisSid.Rsk.  -1
S.  Mnitoriug Arrangemenst              . .                 51
F.   Disbursements anLd Procurement ............            52
C.   Bank-IF Collaboration            . ...2..               5
PART IV   BA  ASSISTANCE STRATEGY, BURDen  SHAoINt AND
AID COORDINATION ..............                        53..-. - . ..  53
PART  V               CRCMM DTION. ..................................  54
)This docunient had a restrited distributin and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their ofci duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank author 3ion.



-'         T~~~zabl  at 2v1=0t:  (conutd
'Tablel1:  Central govrenu.t  iuidgt....   ............             13
Table -2:- Cenktrally Planned. InAVestet   1990 .....               15
Table 3: M0acroeconomic Ans*..t....                                 41
'fable 4: Base Case Financing          ...........   ..0 .........  42
'Table 5: Specific Actions, Timing, and Proposed
SAL. Covditioamlity.... ......    . ..........            46/47
Amnex 1: social 101-4cators.... . .. . . ......  .......
Nationmal Accounts. .............. ...........-~..
Public Finance ................
Noney and Credit ..............
aan,of Payments. *Conver-tible Currency.,.....
Annex 2: Letter to Mr. Conable. ....... . . .. .. ...
Attacbment 1:- Nemorandum of Developsmet Policy...
--Attacbment 2 :-Mitrix. .. ...-.  ,.-....- 
AAnnx 3:  Suppleutentry Poject Daft,Sheet ..............
Arnex '4: Status of Dank Croup Operations..'*. -"-  ....
NAZ
IUrD No. 20327
!                                                              -     h A  0   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t ffiazs'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



A
Qoweromenttof thei Iepubii of Poland  , 
U8#300 mlIlion oq'alval~nt
lam:              l~~~epaymetti 1 years., including five yea?. grac, at
the Standard variable rate
'lb.i proposed loasnsupports the Government a 8 Economic
Transformation Program (PITP). The ST? purses three
broad objectives: stabilization, structural reform
tovards the establishument of a market economy to
improve resource ..location and restore growth, and
the progressive(-rdstoration of cre4itworthiness. At
the same tim,   e P Provides for Social S6rviCes
throu~gh unu~y tbenefits -*nd other sodial welfare
iro.rams to 1~iigate disloation  and ease transition.
7            STE also emphasizes envirouuetal
sustainA)zility,
' Mz1~1~n               The SI 3,r-.resents an y nprecedented prqgrazs combinigt
stabiliztotr and structural change. *ivcluding a
radical l1berabiztant of ah trade rge as -vefl ast
-O-                STEov roso5ncurce ta mediumtinarud rro  growth,c -n
fra-ework and exterr al fioai CIng Strategy. For 1990t
the framwoik -is essEntially dtermined by the program
- -          ~~agred. with tbe IVF. The microeconomic core program
notbrises three major coIIpQments:  ( ui enterprise  -
*       ~~restructurinAg.,priv tiz&ttion, private sector
developmento with ; sopriate legislation et  inpose
financial discpline ETnd establish an adequoea
-nstitutionAl framwork for enterpsea restrUcttirin,
*  -I'    -  - inung stricter                t standar    (ii)
finan4-al sector refom  With emphasis on imroaved
bankitn ireglation and supervision, introduction of
adequate accou3nting au ftsauditing standards (also
.- -y applicable-to nton- fi c al enterprises), and'
strngtenig'ad pase  restructuAring Of the upwking
system; and (iii)  social safety not, withe emphasis on
aefquate unemploymnt bonefits employment services,
traiing, a program of minimum social assistance, andr
impirovpmenits of h     policy. -
The expected benefits from the  Pt are that, Poland.
would make progress towards the establisbsenlt ov
A~~~~~~~~~~ 



_ @ A ) . s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                q 
-~~~~o                                                 ( iCkc\      
iostitutions- in spport of a vorkiz  mrket cooaMy,
with oft    econditf*ns for LWrovod resource =
a'-ocat1oft  Toaukteoan of troath, ~d  irovid
crdittvorthipss. -Greater labor -obility supported by
a4.quato umploymunt beneftts .sd4 help to achiew
equitable. market-basl sharing-  the b*nefits,
derived from growth, and new euvirstandards
,,  ,'oul   nsure that structural chaew  take p\toi* in an
o     mv~rorae lly  sound way, Greater, private. setor
.participati, ludlfX dtroe ft iwfort, is -
-xpected to make a siSnlficnt contribution tu
efficioncy gains  The great risk to which the  XP to
'exposed ia that the reces nary impact of the
stabilization program migb: b  aore -4Lficult to
uan,ge=tban *xpesed, wiven the steep fall in GDP and
high uneployment epcted in 1990. The negative
-'-fieca    dZ soc$.al Xlications could derail the
current progam, and popular pressure could 0u4to  to
a *ndorn or weaken it.  The propoped  iprovnts i
unemployment benefits with "sfguasds againSt poverty
.n4 measures for r.traSnlng an  sm4lU-businss'
creation, howver, are considered . Im#ortant slements
to keep the risk mnoAeab1.. \ Moreover, after some
initial'difficulties, pri'vate -sector supply rysponse
.e e,xptcted to pgin momentum. M+ny nev "aull
businesses have been recenr4y establiAhed-.r
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*The Won would be disbursed agalist genral imports-
^ excey=t the usual smell negztive list of Ineligible
-items.  Te poan would be disbursed in two tranches of
$I00 -aillion and $200 milion, respectively; thb firat -
treanch. \ould be available upon effectiveness expegted
by late-August 1990, the second one after compliance
with second- tranrhe release conditions expected by
early 1991. Retiroactive finarcing of up to $50
m-illion (16. 7 perient of the loan aount) for
expendituires after May 1, 1990 (but not earlier than 4
months before loan signature) ti provid4d. The loan
is expected to be fully disbursed by Decewber',
1991.
F- ;AQf-tEtyr: 'v l     Not aipplicable.
hadZ al Regori:         Not applicable_
of                      .       '\            US$ million
gkmmins:             .Bank Fiscal Yea      'i                  l=a       A
250       50
IBRD No. 20327R
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, 
O ,           - . .*    



\ ~~~~~~OF TH                        (F ,, 
ON A   a  EOuA  AMU= MALLMU
TO  il CV"am~I OF InE 1EUEL=COF PMLAND-
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
StrUetural Adjustmant Loan (SAL) to the Government of the Republic of Poland
for the equivalent of t0S$300 million to provide financial suppo-;:t for the
Government's Economic Transformation Program, (TP). The loan would have a,
term of 17 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART x - I HE 10010W
2.   An economic repo*t entitled -Poland - Econonm  Management for a New Erau
(Report No. 7999-POL) and dated January 19. 1990, was distributed to the
Executive Directors.- This section incorporates the report's main fidingi  as
well as more recent developments. Basic social and economic. indieweortu jae
giv-n in Annex I.
A.
3.-- After years of growing dissatisfaction with the economic and polit7cal
systems, Governmena, organized"a series of "Ro4nd-Table discussions wit
SolUdarity in 4pril 1989. The main result was an agroement to hold s   %tons
under a formula which allocated seats among Government Parties and tl
Opposition in a lower house (the Sejm) and allowed free elections for -A upper
house (the Senate).    -
4.   Elections were held in June 1989. Solidarity won overwhelmingly, *nd
President Jaruazelski proposed a Solidatity-led coalition Government w*Wth was
approved by the Sejm and installed in September. Fully free local elections
were held in May 1990, and national elections are scheduled for 1992.
5.   The new Government is strongly committed to the rapid creation of a
market -economy. Widespread support now exists for the Government's program of
thorough systemic and ulacro-economic management changes initiated at the
beginning of 1990, in the expectation that the problems brought by the
previous economic regime, i.e., increasing shortages, inflation, -and a rigid
economic system which severely constrained adjustment, would soon be overcome.
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-2-
B. Stuture of th_ -enm
6.   Poland ha   peae-capita CDP of about $1850 (Atla usthodolog, 1988)
sad a population of ovr 37 milllon, which is growing at a rate of about 0.8
percent per year. Poland* a-conomy is-well diversified. The econmic system
established at the end of the 1940C  was a traditional odel of centvally
planned sonialtsm, although modifications wer, introduced in subsequent years.
The ocialized sectors--state enterprises and cooperatives--account for about
70 percent of GDP. The private sector is comprised mainly of private
agriculture (which accounts for about 75 percent of all agricultural lan and
output) and small industrial and construction firm, as well as small service
enterprises (shops, restaurants). There have been a =nuber of endeavors to
reform the economic system. The Government of Prime Minister Mazoviecki has
embarked on a major new initiative which radically departs in scope and design
from previous.reform efforts (see paras 19-25).
7.   The industrial sector (including energy and manufacturing) employs about
29 percent of the labor force and produces more than 50 percent of GDP.
Industrial production Is beavily concentrated, with enterprises employing over
1000 workers accounting for over two-thirds of industrial employment and
output. Only about 12 percent of total sales of the industrial sector are
exported. The structure of manufsaturing is strongly biased towards heavy
industry; engineering accounts for a third of industrial employment and a
quarter of industrial output. Poland is the world's fourth largest producer
of hard coal, but is no longer a net energy exporter. Until recently, 5" has
been investing heavily in energy production to maintain output at present
level.. 
8- -&-    - - me wetod- protductive b.ase needs to be restructured.  The low levels
of material and labor efficiency in manufactur&n &re of particular concern.
Tha previous system of price controls, trade barriers, and other distortions
In effect until the end of 1989 made difficult an evaluation of
competitiveness, but there are indications that more than half of Industrial
output is not competitive on the basis of world market pricis, even after the
marked real devaluations in recent years. These -industries (which include
heavy industry--particularly steel) are in serious need of restructuring.
9.  -Uhn compared to international standards8 Poland's use of #=rgg Is
inefficient. As a result of subsidies and inadequate pricing, domestic energy
consumption per unit of output is high, thus increasing production costs
particularly in lndustry, absorbing growing proportions of production, and
limiting the amounts of hard coal for export (which currently accounts for
about 16-18 percent of Poland's convertible currency exports). There is only
limited room to increase productivity In existing hard coal mines, and new
mines coming on stream will just compensate for o14 capacity being depleted.
An intensified energy conservation program is essential both to lower
M The Atlas mthodology is based on a three-year average of Inflation
and exchange rates. A straight conversion would result in a lower
per capita GDP.



-3-
productIon cost In domestic InOustrie  and to fre  hard :oal for exPot.
Appropriate ergy pricin  is an iuportant eleent in  Orgy conervation (see
paras. 42 and 43).
i0.  h       r   accounts for about 13 percent of GDP and employs about 28
porcent of the labor force., Unlike in other Eastern European countries, the
private sector predomintes, and has boen officially sanctioned in the
conastitution.  Agriculture (mainly agro-procasslng) provides about 12 percent
of total export earning, and the sector's u ternml trade is nearly in
balance. Despite private ownership of land, agricultural productivity--in
terms of both labor productIvIty as a result of excess labor in agriculture
and per-hectare yields as a result of low leoVls of nodern inputs in private
agriculture-is relatively low and stagnant, witb Poland falling progrssiLvely
further behind, even with respect to Its Eastern European neighbors. Systemic
and institutional difficulties (extension, credit, inputs supply, marketin,
pricing) have Impeded the large private sector from developing its potential.
Agro-process ng is a severe bottleneck, with low levels of efficiency and poor
quality performance. The climate, while not ideal, is not a severely limiting
constraint.
11.  Poland also lacks a good lL nterAmedation sstem, which is an
important factor in mobilizing resources and promoting sound investment and
financial dircipline at the enterprise level. Financing decilsions have tended
to be made in conjunction with other centralized decisions, and enterprise
investments and operations were insulated from the consequences of their
mistakes and achievements, through major transfers from/to the state budget,       -
price controls, and the monopolistic structure of production. Lending and
deposit rates remained substantially negative in real terms for years.
Reforms of the finacial system were initiated in recent years and Intensified
in 1989, with the establishment of the National Bank of Poland (NBP) as rnt&
central bank and the introduction of two-tier banking by spinning off NBP's
coumerctal functions to nine independent commercial banks. However, the
financial system has remained at an early stage of development.
12.  Poland's             has deteriorated rapidly. Out-of-date technology,
uspecially in the mining, cheoicals, petrochemical, and fertilizer subsectors,
releases air and liquid pollutants at levels well beyond those typically
accepted in industrialized countries; solid wasto disposal is also a problem.
Air, water, and soil pollution threaten crop production, health, water
supplies. buildings, and forests. Sulphur dioxide generated by burning
low-quality coal and lignite is the single worst pollutant.
13.  The productive structure of the economy is a legacy of the past,
generated to a large extent in the 1970s when large amounts of convertible
currency resources were borrowed to finance a -high rate of investent.
Artificially low interest rates and poor planning resulted in numerous
inefficient undertakings which survived as they were protected from domestic
and foreign competition. There was too much emhasis on inefficient
construction, and completed projects typically had very low rates of retbrn,
while high inwestment rates absorbed vast quantittes of resources.



-4-
14.  Tho invostmnt drive of tho 1970s left Poland with a large external
debt. Of the $41 billion of oxternal debt at end 1989, approximtely $28
billion La owod to official bilateral creditors (Paris Club), $9 billion to
western comrcial banks (London Club), and about $4 billion to others. Ewen
after a series of debt reschedulings, Polsnd has not been able to make full
payments of the amounts owed, and arrears have built up to the Paris Club =a
london Club creditors during 1989. Poland has now started taikng steps to
regularixe these relations. Regarding the Paris Club, a now rescheduling
agreement was reached in February 1990. This agroeeent reschedules arrears as
of the end of 1989 and principal and interest maturities (including previously
rescheduled debt) falling due between January 1, 1990, and March 31, 1991,
over 14 years including 8 years of grace. Seventy percent of moratorLum
interest on the rescheduled debt falling due during the co"solidation period
is capitalized, with repayment over 11 years including 3 years of grace, whlle
30 percent will bave to be paid during the first quarter of 1991. Regarding
the London Club, an agreement had been reached for a multi-year rescheduling
covering 1988-93. Although this agreement called for Poland to continue to
pay full interest, this issue has been reopened, and--since October 1989--
Poland has made only a small share of interest payment due. Poland is now in
contact with the banks to discuss a more comprehensive solution, compatible
with the recent Paris Club agreement.
15. The stock of debt is n*w about five times the current annual level of
convertible currency earnings, one of the highest such ratios in the world,
while equivalent to only about 80 percent of GDP, a ratio exceeded by many
countries. This reflects the relatively small share of convertible currency
exports In GDP.
16.  About 55 percent of Poland's trade is in convertible currencles; the
main export categorles are manufactures, food, mineral fuels, and machinery
and tranfaport equipment, and the main Import items are machinery and transport
equip _nt, chemicals, and manufactures. Trade with countries belonging to the
Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CHEA) in nonconvertible, transferable
rubles accounts for most of the remainder.  (A small amount is in bilateral
clearing arrangents not in the OCEA regime.)  Through CMEA trade, Poland
receives key raw materials such as petroleum (f  which it would othorwise
have to spend hard currency), while it exports p Imarily consumer and
industrial goods. After running a substantial trade and current account
deficit in the CMKA area during most of the 180s0 Poland is now beginning to
run small and increasing surpluses.
17.  The crisis of the early 1980s caused sharp declines in incomes,
consumption, and exports. The burden of external adjustment fell mainly on
Imports which were compressed -severely, and have been kept at levels
sufficient to generate a trade surplus of about $1 billion per year since
1984. The economy has been slow to recover; despite anntal growth rates of 3-
4 percent on average, total output and consumption per capita are only now
reaching the levels of the late 1970s. Total investment rates have returned
to their rather high past levels (over 25 percent of GDP?-) but efficiency has



-5-
not improved materially  s tbe domestic economy contined to be shielded ftom
foreign competition, and haphazard direct interventions also continued to
prevail.
18.  While output and exports continued their upward trends since 1983, 1988
and 1989 were difficult years. Economic activity in 1988 continued the trend
of improvement -in production, with GDP increasing by about 4.5 percent, the
fifth year in this recovery. Despite good overall performance in the real
economy, many sectors showed serious signs of overheating as incroases in
nominal wages far exceeded increases in output. Fixed investment by
enterprises increased by 10-12 percent in real terms, and real per-capita
consumption rose by 3-4 percent. Resulting excess demand exacerbated market
imbalances and widesproad shortages occurred. Inflation accelerated to 70
percent, and real incomes (CPI adjusted) increased by 11 percent, and resa
wages. by 8 percent. In 1989, inflation reached 252 percent for-the year (as
compared to the average of 1988), while prices at the end of the year were
about 7 times higher than they had been in December, 1988. Nominal wages
Increased 4-fold from Jaruary 1989 to September, 1989, and about 9-fold during
the whole year, although there was some decline in real wages from October to
December.  As a result of these and other disruptions in the economy, output
began to decrease during the last months of 1989, and declined by 1 percent
for the year as a whole.
19.   The process- of nigh inflation began with a price/incme manoeuvre in
-early 1988 designed to change relative prices of energy and a4just prices
substantially in other sectors. The ensuing instability--caused by large
price increases and lax financial discipline (wege increases by enterprises,
credit expansion, and subsidies)--led to changes of expectations ana
accelerating inflation. Further contributing to inflation were the
monetization of increasing budget deficits (in excess of 2 percent of CDP in
1988 and over 10 percent during the first nine months of 1989, with the
deficit for the year as a whole at about 8 percent as a result of expenditure
cuts) and highly negative real interest rates.
20. Convertible currency trade performance, which had been good in 1987 and
for most of 1988 (with exports increasing in real terms by about 10 percent),
weakened during 1989. The pace of export growth slowed significantly in the
last quarter of 1988 and in 1989, whereas imports accelerated. The trade
surplus decreased from $950 million in 1988 to only $240 million in 1989. The
improved trade and foreign exchange regimes reduced the anti-export bias of
the system, but this was undermined by lax exchange rate management in the
second half of 1988, which caused a 22 percent real appreciation of the zloty,
while an appreciation of the exchange rate during mid-1989 was partially
offset during the last months of 1989 by a rapid devaluation beginning in
September. The deficit on the-convertible currency current account increased
to over $580 million in 1988 and, for 1989, a deficit of $1.8 billion (about
2 1/2 percent of GDP) Was recorded, compared to only $417 million in 1987.
Official reserves, however, increased by $560 million in 1988 (to reach a
level equal to 4 months imports), and were roughly unchanged in 1989. The



6
financing of the current account doficit was essentially in the form of unpaid
interest on external debt; this roached $2.1 billion In 1988 and $2.4 bilion
in 1989.
E.   xternal Debt  4d andi rh1nas
21. At the end of 1989, Poland's externsl debt in convertible currency
aaounted to $40.6 billion (equivalent-to about 80 percent of GDP and 475
percent of convertible currency exports of goods and services). Of this total,
about $4.4 billion were arrears. Scheduled debt-service payments In 1989
amounted to $5.2 billion (equivalevt to 60 percent of exports of goods and
services in convertible currency), of which only $1.5 billion were actually
paid. The recent Paris Club rescheduling drastically reduces Poland's debt-
service obligations during 1990 to $2.0 billion. However, it does not reduce
Poland's debt burden over the medium and long run as amortization obligations
were stretched out into the f-uture and rnterest was capitalized which actually
increased the overall amount of debt. A short-term solution might also be
posible with the London Club creditors, which in terms of cash-flow relief can
be expected to be similar to the conditions granted by the Paris Club. While
the policy environment and balance-of-payments performance have significantly
changed since the beginning of 1990 with the implementation of the
stabilization program and the support of the IMF avid a number of bilateral
-creditors, the medium to longer-term creditworthiness picture In strict
quantitative terms has hardly improved. Through early 1991, actual dobt-
service payments will be sharply reduced but continued further debt relief
will depend on new agreements In the future. A much needed longer-tern-
solution including debt--and debt-service reduction or equivalent support would
bring about a lasting improvement in creditworthiness indicators and thus
prepare the ground for new capital flows.-- A medium-term external financing
strategy to address this problem is part of the Government's Economic
Transformation Program (ETP). Assuming successful implementation of such
strategy, Poland is expected to make significant progress towards the
restoration of its external cFeditworthiness and is conssidered creditworthy
for Bank lending In the atounts proposed (see Part II-C of thls report).
PAR II- TE IONOI(~TRANSFORKA?ON ROG    (RTPI
A. hjkaromLnL=i and
22. The Government of Prime Minister Mazoviecki assumed office In September
1989 and began to tighten macroeconomic management during the remainder of
1989, while at the same time preparing a more comprehensive and ambitious
Economic Transformation Program (ETP). The mTP was launched-at the b,ginning
of 1990. While the main focus initially was on stabilizing the economy, a
number of important complementary measures of a longer-term structural nature
were also adopted from the beginning.
23.  The IT? is virtually without precedent in its scope and depth.  It
represents a radical departure from the past and earlier gradualistic reform



attempts. The ITP is pursuing wide-ranging goals and objectives. Ultiately,
the Government strives at iWprovlng living conditions to levels similar to
those in Western Europe by transforming the economy into a market economy,
with restored growth, equitable sharing of benefits, and environmontal
compatibility.
-24. Th. program's limediate aim it to stabilize the economy and to create
effective markets to replace central government commnds and political party
connections by which resources were previously allocated. The main components
of this transformation are: price liberalization and a competitive trade
regime to signal scarcity values; a fiscal system which allows these scarcity
values to appear on the -market without significant distortions; an enterprise
system, with increasing prlvate ownership, in which owners and managers are
guided by market-based incentives in using resources efficiently to meet
market demands; a labor market including an unemployment insurance scheme to
permit workers to seek attractive jobs; and a financial system to marshall
savings and facilitate the flow of capital to the most productive uses. All
these program elements are geared to stimulate supply response throughout the
economy.
25. However, the process of -ystemic transformation is complicated and time
consuming: numerous and far-reaching changes In the legal system are required
to lay the ground for the new system; substantive changes in a number of
sectors must be coordlnated to minimize frictional costs; monopolies need to
be dismantled and conditions created for small competitive businesses to
operate; and the political-process must be fostered to secure majority
support. Another aspect of market development is the required change in
attitudes. Ordinary citizens are surprised when prices differ from one store
to the next; learning to shop is an importeit aspect of market development.
Management skLils need to be developed at all levels of the economy; while
many managers have qulte ably managed materials in a shortage environment,
many need iLproved skills to control costs and returns and use factors of
production efficiently within the context of changing patterns of demand. And
the role of the State will have to change from commands and direct, discrete
interventions to generally applicable regulations and the rule of law.
26.  This part of the report provides a detailed description and appraisal of
the Government's mTP. It first sunmarizes the stabilization component of the
mTP and subsequently disousses in detail the structural adjustment component
whieh would be supported by the proposed loan. As the implementation of the
ETP, together with adequate debt relief and other external financial support,
determine Poland's medLum-term prospects and performance, this part of the
report ends with a discussion of the medium-term perspective and external
financing requirements. The specific support the Dank proposes through the
SAL and other operations is discussed ln Parts III and IV of the report.



D.  Sumary of the 3tabiziuatiop CompFenit and Performance To Date
1.  The ProgXa
27.   As the economic situation with hyperinflation and severe external
payments problems became untenable in the second half of 1989, a sharp break
with the past was required. A comprehensive macroeconomic program to address
the country's severe problems was formulated by the Government at the end of
1989 and implemezted at the beginning of 1990, with support from the 'DF
through a SDR 545 million Standby Arrangement for 13 months.  This program,
one of the most comprehensive and radical ones ever undertaken, has a heavy
emphasis on stabilization, but also introduced significant structural and
systemic changes. It comprises a virtually balanced budget; credit controls;
positive real interest rates; price decontrol; a changed foreign trade and
exchange regime with a fixed exchange rate after significant devaluation; and
a substantial -eduction in real wages (to be enforced through a tax-based
income policy).
28.   The fiscal budget for 1990 allows for a deficit equivalent to slightly
less than 1 percent of GDP as compared to about 8 percent in 1989. Monthly
budgets will be prepared to ensure that even with high inflation at the
beginning of the year (and the consequent difficulty of programming
expenditures and revenues over the year) targets will be met.
29.   Nominal interest rates (as measured by NBP's refinancing rate) have been
raised sharply from 100 percent per year to monthly adjusted rates, which
started at 36 iercent in January and were progressively reduced to 5.5 percent
In Nay, in line with declining inflation (see para. 32 below). Rates are i
determined on the basis of a number of criteria but with a strong concern for
achieving positive real interest rates and making zloty savings instruments
more desirable than previously, and thus helping to stabilize the exchange
rate. Money creation is limited by credit ceilings as well as a prohibition
against monetary expansion to finance any fiscal deficit.
30.   Price controls, previously imposed on goods and services comprising 80
percent of GDP for the first half of 1989 and 50 percent for the second half
of 1989, have been lifted on all goods and services, except for items
accounting for about 10 percent of CDP; public transportation, energy, and a
few other items are still controlled and subsidized. This is a forceful step
towards creation of a market economy.
31.  The fcreign exchange regime was fundamentally changed to support the
stabilization program. All current account transactions have been
liberalized, except for restrictions on the transfers of dividends from
foreign Investment in domestic market activities (being progressively phased
out over a period of time) and travel abroad. All export proceeds must be
surrendered but purchases of f6reign exchange are freely allowed for current
account transactions. Moreover, a fixed exchange rate at a substantially
depreciated level (9500 zlotys per dollar vs. an official rate of 6500 zlotys
per dollar at end December and an average official rate of about 1400 zlotys
per dollar for all of 1989) was established as an important anchor for the



-9
stabilization program. A parallil foreign exchange market will continue to
exist for private, non-current account transactions. This market will also be
an important factor in determining the adequacy of the official exchange rate.
The margin is to be kept within 10 percent of the official rate. Greater
deviations would trigger adjustments of domestic interest rates or other
measures.
2. PerforEance to Date
32.    While it is too early to evaluate performance under the stabilization
program, some noticeable results have been obtained to date. First, lnflation
has decelerated sharply since the exceedingly high price increase of the first
two-three weeks of January which resulted in a price increase of 79 percent
for the month. February inflation was 24 percent, March about 5 percent,
April about 8 percent (due inter alia to some seasonal factors), and May, 5
percent. The price indices miss a considerable amount of informal sector
activity where competition is stronger and where greater price flexibility
would normally be expected; therefore, the statistics cited may actually
overstate inflation.  Second, the program is on track in terms of ceilings and
targets under the standby arrangement. Monetary expansion has been only
slightly below the ceiling allowed for in the program, with the increase
attributable entirely to non-government sectors. Stringent fiscal management
has produced a small budget surplus, while a modest deficit is allowed for on
a three-month basis. Interest rates (NBP's refinancing rate) have been
reduced in line with decelerating inflation (see para. 29). While the
inflation rate far exceeded the nominal interest rate in January, the February
rates were within 3-5 points, and the refinancing rate since March has ranged
from 1 to 4 percent positive in r,eal terms, per month. Gross foreign reserves
have increased by about $1 billion through the end of May, and the $1 billion
stabilization fund has thus far not been used. (This is a highly welcome
development. A reserve build-up is needed to provide an adequate cushion
against high uncertainty in the xuture, resulting, inter alia, from CHXA
reform.) Wage adjustments have been well within the guidelines. This
translates into a sharp drop in real wages by over 40 percent from January
through May, or, adjusting for exceptional bonuses given at the end of last
year, to a drop of about 20 percent.
33.   The authorities are carefully monitoring output, trade performance, and
unemployment. Output sold during the first quarter in the five main
socialized sector branches was about 20 percent lower than in 1989. While
statistics are absent for the private sector, there is some concern that
production may have also decreased, as entrepreneurs waited to see and
evaluate the impact of the stabilization program. Related to these decreases,
imports have also been lower in 1990 than in 1989, while exports, after
decreasing in January below the levels of 1989, appear to have partially
recovered since, increasing strongly in recent weeks. The number of
officially registered unemployed has increased from about 7,000 at the
beginning of 1990 to over 5sb0,o0 by mid-June (about 3 percent of the total
labor force or about 3.8 percent of the non-agricultural labor force).
Unemployment is still at modest levels compared to what may be expected as a
result of stabilization and restructuring during the course of 1990-91.



- 10 .
34. Although these aspects of the economy need to be carefully mounitored, it
is too early to suggest any modifications in the program. Popular support for
the Prime Minister and his overall reform program remains hlgh, and there has
be"a relatively little labor unrest. Rather than relax the stabilisation
program with a high rlsk of reignlting hyperinflation, it iL urgent to move
rapidly to Implement the structural adjustment program which is designed to
stimulate the supply rosponse.
C. gm SturaL Adi
1. ZUtredctton
35.  In addition to the fundaental changes in the macroeconomic policy
stance and the trade and exchange regime, the Government's ETP comprises far-
reaching measures to reform the enterprise sector, develop the financial
sector, and establish a social safety net outside the enterprises.  The
proposed SAL is designed to support these measures. Enterprise reform has
been initiated by the imposition of financial discipline and the threat of
bankruptcy and liquidation, within a market-based system in which competition
is intensifying as imports have been liberalized and the domestic economy will
be deregulated and deconcentrated. Enterprise restructuring, including
privatization, is intended to adapt enterprises to the new business
environment which will also facilitate, new entrants. An important aspect of
the new 'rules of the game_ will also be stricter enforcement of environmental
standards to reverse the degradation that has been going on for decades.
Financial sector reform will continue and broaden efforts started in 1989 with
the establishment of two-tier banking. Most importantly, financial
Institutions will have to operate within new prudential regulations and modern
accounting and auditing standards, and massive trainlng and far-reaching
financial restructuring will be required to transform existing institutions
into efficient financial intermediaries. The growing, though still small.
foreign presence in the financial sector will contribute to this
modernization. Finally, systemic transformation and economic restructuring
requires unprecedented adjustments in the labor market, with greater labor
mobility and temporary unemployment (possibly of large proportions). An
adequate social safety net to protect against undue hardship thus becomes an
indispensable and integral part of the ETP. More is needed in the medium to
longer term to strengthen the country's human resource base, particularly in
education and health.
36.  The individual ETP components are described in tho Gcoverrunt's
emorandum of Development Policy (Annex 2) and more fully discussed In the
following section, while the underlying quantitative medium-term macroeconomLc
framework and financing plan are discussed in Section D.
2. Main Structural Elmntn of the ETP's Adjustment Comoonent
(1) Fiscal Policy (S6bsi&i4s. Pricing. and Investment)



- 11 -
37.  Ovxsxf-a.  The 1990 budget is distinguished from its predecessors by
three salient features: (i) a radical reduction in subsidies; (il) the
introduction of explicit welfare payments in order to compensate the poorest
egpents of population for the removal of subsidies; and (ili) increased
budget revenues and lower expenditures which should result in a budget deficit
of about 1 percent of GDP as compared to last year's deficit of close to 8
percent. All three eleoents represent sharp breaks with the recent past.
Additional measures are being taken and planned throughout 1990 and beyond to
ensure that the budget stays on track even in the event of unforeseen
expenditures.
38.  Subsidies to population and enterprises which only two years ago
accounted for more than 15 percent of GDP, or about half of current
expenditures, are to decline to some 5 percent of GDP (see Table 1). In
comparison with 1989, the planned reduction of subsidies amounts to 60 percent.
in real terms. Explicitly related to cuts in subsidies are increased
allocations for unemployment and retraining allowances. The Government
intends to devote (from budgetary sources) about 1 percent of GDP (or more
than 3 percent of total central budget current expenditures) for that purpose,
in addition to the newly created Labor Fund which will receive revenues from a
2 percent payroll tax estimated to amount to about 0.6 percent of GDP.
Unemployment benefits and increased allocations for the poor represent the
first steps toward a generalized means-tested system of social support for the
poor which the Government plans to introduce in 1991 (see para. 110). As
concerns the overall stance of fiscal policy, the budget deficit is expected
to shrink to about 1 percent of GDP mostly through expenditure cuts by 17
percent in real terms with respect to 1989 or by more than 4 percentage points
of GDP. Revenues. on the other hand, are projected to remain almoat flat in
teal terms which, given the expected decline of GDP, would imply an increase
by some 2 percentage points of GDP.
39. - To achieve the revenue goal without changes in the taxation system and
with declining GDP, the Government relies on increased revenues from two
sources: corporate income tax and 'dividends".2  Corporate income tax
revenues are slated to increase (from 6.6 to 9.8 percent of GDP) mostly
through elimination of tax rebates related to exports and ctits related to
investments. This should raise the effective tax from less than 32 percent in
1989 to 38 percent in 1990, close to the statutory rate of 40 percent.
However, in conditions of high inflation and enterprise restructuring (with
expected reduction in profits) the projected real increase in revenues may
pA.ove to be elusive and create additional budget pressure. The share of
dividend tax in GDP is projected to go up from 1.8 to 2.8 percent. This is
Dividends are quasi-taxes that state-owned enterprises must pay on
,the value of state-owned capital. Dividend is assessed on the
revalued amount of capital originally received by enterprises in
form of grants. It is similar to a payment to bond-holders in a
capitalist firm. Strict enforcement of sharply increased
obligations is an important feature of the newly improved
financial discipline within the ETP.



-12-
explained by three elements. First, by a revaluation of enterprise assets In
January 1990 (for the first time since 1983) by a factor of 14. Second, by a
relatively high statutory rate of 32 percent p.a. on the value of capital.
Third, by the elimination of the ceiling on the amount of the dividend which
in the past could not exceed 25 percent of enterprise profits. Furthermore,
the Governmetit La no longer prepared to tolerate payment arrears that at the
end of 1989 equalled 20 percent of the amount due in the last year. The
Government will also discontinue all discretionary (preferential) treatment of
enterprises. Failure to pay dividends will trigger enterprise restructuring
and eventual privatization or bankruptcy an liquidation (see para. 69). This
could obviously also be one of the possible avenues towards privatization.
40.   The Gover-ment plans to proceed with important changes in the tax system
after careful study of alternatives. It plans to introduce value-added and
personal income taxation In 1991. The most pressing change concerns taxation
of the non-agricultural private sector whose Importance in the economy (both
independently and because of privatization ot state enterprises) is bound to
increase, while the present tax system is unable to deal with it adequately.
41. Subsidies and Pricing Policy: Total explicit government subsidies
(including so-called subjective subsidies paid to loss-making enterprises) are
projected to decline from 12 percent of GDP in 1989 to 5.2 percent of GDP in
1990. Towards this target, the Government has taken a number of bold
measures: virtual elimination of subsidies on processed food with planned
elimination of the three remaining subsidies (low-fat milk, cheese, and dark
bread) by the end of 1990- reduction of subsIdies on agrieultural inputs to a
level equal to one-quarter of last year's; halving of medicine subsidies; and
abolishment of the Price Equalization Account in foreign trade (asd thus the
corresponding net subsidies). Further subsidy reductions are planned during
the course of 1990, as well as in 1991 and beyond. Some speeifie measures
suc as further reductions in energy, transportation and housing subsidies are
included in the proposed SAL. They would also be reflected in the 1991 budget
which will be reviewed with the Bank.
42. The most important remaining subsidies are those to coal mines, housing
(rents, central heating and hot water, interest rate), passenger
transportation, and automobiles. On January 1, 1990 retail prices of coal
were increased by a factor of 7, while ex-factory coal prices were raised 5
times. However, subsidies to coal mines and to households still amount to
about 1.7 percent of GDP. The Government's plans during the remainder of 1990
call for a freeze of nominal subsidies to coal mines and total price
liberalization on the domestic market, with the simultaneous relaxation of
some export restrictions including a change in the existing export tax.
During 1991 and 1992, the Government will phase out subsidies and the export
tax on coal so as to allow the domestic price to adjust to the international
price level by the end of 1992.
43.  Related to the price of coal is the need to adJust other prices of
eney (including district heat, lignite, natural gas, fuel oils, gas-oil, and
electricity). Besides price levels being inadequately low fmostly through
gross subsidizatLon), relative prices diverge from the international price



- 13 -
Td*o is CMW   O,  RW
S19       1*          "IS        19         1W9 (plavu  7/
u .u45                                          36.2       35.         5.6        37
To MA"=                              VA         31.5       5.2        23.7         T7
tm lW  mialld                        5 I.9      5.2         US         5.         5.7
13.2       ICA6       10          9.1        Ls
4.3        3.         3.5        3.7         3.1
0    _                                                                ss1.6      2*
Ia"" to                             1.0         0.7       0oa         0.2        0A
l"ll mtd drad                       0.7         0.2
ftr,t Uw  3t2                                  2.4        2L0         0.0        0.
0  W_1  tw                          0.7        0.3         0t         1.7        1A
Odur                           .      4         0A,       1.0        03         0.1
So"t smEll mwoib*Ia                   4.3
lb ml1admgl                           1j.5       1.5        IA         13         1.3
F,o ppon    ats. 0..                             0.        0o          0.7         0A
0.3        0.3
L.         L.         22    2:     9         L2O
TOOL   _1mh                          47.0       36A        5.9         xi         X.1
Diw   P    uwRs                      40m3       31.1       31M6        322        au
;g_Ya  1wI  V                       1.9        I.6         1          1.5       1A
blau                                0.3        0.1         0.2        0.1        0.1
heI           amdtw  2              9.S       .1           7*1        9A         5.9
Soft ufstm  ad Jtce               - 1           1.1        1.0        1.1        0*
so"    bw  Yv                       es          13         1. St -                Ug
eist 4gV 7                                    15.1       1S2        923        S32
To patt,                            0         l     t      O D    IL            3.1
To  mp                             7.3         5.1       .S2         4.0        2.1
TrW tom wt   _                                                        0.6        1.1
'of-r - mdiNy4.4A                              3.6         3.3     t-3           2.2
-nwwt We No                                                                -= .0
of ddh for _ d mom
Ugifai
Odw                                                                   02         0.1
sadde      t                        1.5        0.0         0.1        0.6        0.3
ArIM   61                                                               1.3
C     _I11 "madan                               S          5.3        3.1         3.3
Ifinlt*                             5.2        4A         4.2        2A          L1
tr,Ut  ,s                                                           02          0.2
im                                                          0.4 0A6
1.5        OA
~mlaa2Ioi binu1A.                               12         1.1       0O6         0.7
gm    A                              -1.S       -2L4        05  -      7.9        -1.4
1/ quwy  sWl.W ", amst  en  emrIm imatwd In im=wcMs
U mtte HIs rad -Im f,i UI Y  I I h *t sd n
21 SeLt d fwm fw    smeekw            w"WbUoA      wf
3/ hetItht IIUI forw mfL~s.lor1   wplsu  ecz, bbu, er
Im hest kmw"= *ftd (R_ ). _. W  ~   t9 sL im ad audbmsm &*
hal b_t*yy   fi M (@05 bl      .y fad
4/ a&* *ft for1 1M   t      e19   Nfl # tf zt;b. -
S/  ftl fork 1  t I of ftI0.    -           '
71   end  to dUtl UUpi a' S FnwyW. *-_
Source.  Polish Authorities; World -Bank.
1                                                     C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 14 -
structure. The Government is aware of these problems and proposes to proceed
in three stages. By the end of 1991, it will bring the relative price
structure in line with the structure typically observed in West-European
market economies. Energy prLces for household conomers will bo adjusted by
the end of 1990 to a level at least equal to 50 percent of industrial consumer
prices; by the end of 1991, household prices will be at par with industrial
prlces. Throughout 1991-92 and thereafter, energy prices will be changed in
line with changing coal prices so as to maLitaln the relative prlie structure
observed in market economies.
44.   Subsidies on r       transporztatio  are also going to be reduced.
Passenger railway subsidies in 1990, after significant rate hikes at the
beginning of the year and at the beginning of June, amount to about 0.3
percent of GDP. The Government will also finance one-half of expenditures on
railroad modernization, which adds another 0.3 percent of GDP to budget
transfers to PKP, the state raLlway company. In order to reduce the amount of
operating subsldies, the Government plans to increase passenger and freight
fares while at the same time pursing increased officiency in PKP in line with
agreements reached under the Bank-financed Transport Project. Subsldies would
be reduced by at least one-third over the next 2-3 years.
45.   Subges on automobiles are neo, resulting from the previous
governments' commitment to guarantee prices of automobiles to people who made
their payments In earlier years but failed to receive cars. The Government
has, however, reduced the initially allocated amount for this purpose by
one-half (to 0.25 percent of GDP in 1990).
46. Finally, subsidios to the housins sector (interest rate subsidy, central
heating and hot water, operation and maintenance, and rents)-will also be
reduced. Some reduction of operation and maintenance subsidies will take
place during the remainder of 1990, while the more important other subsidies
will be reduced based on an action plan to be agreed with the Bank by the end
of 1990.
47.   IgIMM. The 199Q government budget includes an allocation to
central investments of about Zl 1000 bn, equivalent to about 0.2 percent of
GDP or about 1 percent of Poland's overall investment. Central inmestments
are composed of two parts: centrally-sponsored investments and imnostr-ents of
minLstries and other government unlts. The latter are essentially investments
of 'budgetary firms', that is investments related to provision of social
services (education, culture, health etc.). Centrally-sponsored ivmestments
represent what used to be the core of central planning and cover now almost
exclusively investments in mining, electricity-generation, grain elevators,
and selected social investments of national importance (e.g. national library,
center for cancer research). In 1990, they comprise 57 projects, a subset of
the original 112 projects included in the 1986-90 Five-Year Plan. The
sectoral breakdown of the projects is shown in Table 2.



:     1i                   S                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                               
i,                                      ' S 



-    - * 16-
48.  The amount allocated for central investments has followed a marked
downward trend in real terms since 1986.  This was the result of budgetary
stringencies as well as of a conscious governuent decision to reduce both the
scope of centrally-sponsored investments and the share of government transfers
in th financing of such investments. Any shortfall in budgetary transfers
was to be compensated by increased bank financing and own resources. In 1990,
budgetary transfers account for only 30 percent of total projected
expenditures on centrally-sponsored projects. In real terms, this is about 20
percent less than in 1989 (which already was one-third lower than in 1988).
While budget transfers for centrally-sponsored investments represent only 0.2
percent of GDP or less than 1 percent of all investments expenditures in the
country, total outlays (including bank credlt and own resources) are projected
to amount to some 0.6 percent-of GDP. In addition to reducing allocations,
the Government has decided to eliminate 16 projects from the list of central.
investments: 6 of them will be stopped pending a further decision (among them
the nuclear reactor in Zarnowiec and the Budryk coal mine) while 10 projects
will have to find their own financiers (foreign investors or Polish firms).
Furthermore, not a single among the 57 current projects is new.
49.  Significant reduction in budget transfers fot centrally-sponsored
projects raises the question of adequacy of such policy, particularly from the
longer-term perspective. Low level of investments today (particularly in
infrastructure) may discourage future private investments, bolth domestic and
foreign, and make the achievement of higher growth rates more difficult. The
Government is aware of this problem and is committed to revise its central
iWestment program, in the context of the 1991 budget, in order to better
define priorities and establish a better screening mecbanism. It plans to
reserve centrally-sponsored investments only for a few selected projects of
clear strategic importance for which independent financing cannot be secured.
The Government will also improve the institutional arrangements for better
investment planning and prioritization in support of Poland's medium and long-
term development.
(2)  Trade Poli      -
50. Evolution 1982-89. Poland's trade regime has evolved through a number
of reform initiatives since 1982 when the dismantling of the State's foreign
trade monopoly was initiated. The first stage of reforms began the process of
eliminating central control of foreign trade but did little to correct highly
distorted' relative prices. The real exchange rate appreciated during the
early 1980s, then stabilized, and began to depreciate in 1986-88. Instead,
the authorities attempted to stimulate exports directly through fiscal relief
to exporters which increased from 2-3 percent of export earnlngs in 1982 to 12
percent in 1987. At the same time, binding price controls existed to restrain
the price setting power of monopolies. Moreover, the price-equalization
account (PEA) was created to finance differentials between foreign trade
transaction prices and controlled domestic prices, increasing the combined
export subsidy, wlth a peak in 1987 ata level equivalent to 22 percent of
export earnings.



17 -
51.  While the trade and price policy tools distorteo relative prices, the
binding instrument of protection and resource allocation has been the direct
control of underpriced foreign exchange. Even though formal conmand planning
ceased to exist after 1982, informal guidance from the ministr-Les continued,
and in 1989 central allocation still accounted for more than half of inport
financing. While the foreign exchange system resulted in high protection of
donestic industry, it was also used to stimulate exports through a currency
retention scheme (ROD) which alloved exporters to finance their imported $iput
needs directly from their foreign exchange earnings. The retention rates
varied across activities and were based on historical import intensity ratios,
thus constraining new activities and the circulation of foreign exchange to
its most efficient use.
52. During the second half of the 1980s, several attempts were made to
loosen controls on foreign exchange. Restrictions on the use of excess ROD
accounts were partially lifted in 1987 and further relaxed in 1989 When all
agents were allowed to conduct transactions in foreign exchange at the
parallel or unofficial rate. The liberalization of the use of ROD accounts
and the introduction of foreign exchange auctions represented laportant
improvements toward a market-based allocation system, but the retention scheme
continued to tax exports and unduly protect domestic production. kuction
markets for foreign exchange, while introducing some degree of allocation
based on price, were highly segmented and controlled. The result was that
foreign exchange was more freely available, but at widely varying realized
nominal exchange rates leading to a broad range of effective protection across
activities and firms.
53.  Reforms in 1990. At the beginning of 1990, major changes occurred in
the trade and foreign exchange regime. The notable changs include the nearly
complete elimination of price controls, the elimination of the centrally
allocated foreign exchange and auction markets, a devaluation by more than 30
percent relative to December 1989 (on top of accelerated devaluation during
the last quarter of 1989), the reduction of export restrictions and
elimination of export subsidies, the complete elimination of Import licensing,
and the ability of all agents to engage in foreign trade activities. As few
trade related restrictions remain- the remaining ones are mostly export
restrictions required by domestic pricing policies, most notably for coal--
the Polish trade system (on the convertible currency side) is now transparent
and based primarily on market-based incentives. These changes have
dramatically reduced the biases inhorent in the previous system and placed all
activities on practically an eqial basis. The more neutral and open incentive
regime will lead to more import competition and a more efficient allocation of
resources across activities and provide the requisite environment for the
-restructuring process. Coitrary to actual p-olicy action, the Customs Law of
December 28, 1989, though GATT consistent, is vague and allow the imposition
of quotas and/or licensing along with changes in tariffs and surcharges in
response to,pressures felt by domestic industry or for balance-of-payments
considerations. This type of- 'ad-hocl- trade- intervention without time limits
would obviously run coupter to the essence of the Polish reform program: a
neutral, transparent incentive regime based on market determined profitabil$ty
at the firm level--a regbe to which the Goverroent is firmly comitted.



- is -
54.   b=a        a  In              InI. As the tariff regime I currently
binding and is -he principal roemining trade distortion on convertible
currency Imports, the Government, with Bank support, initiated a statistical
review of the nominal protection structure lmplied by the current tarlff
regie. An action program for further tariff reform will be developed by the
end of 1990 while In the interim tho suspenion of collection of Import
tariffs for a wide range of products is under consideration to increase
competitive pressure and curb inflation. Initial results regarding the
current tariff structur indicate that although the average import weighted
and unweighted tariff level is not exceedingly high (12 percent) by developing
country standards, the tariff schedule consists of a relatively wide
dispersion of tariffs (0-40 percent) with lower rates on Intermediates (8
percent) and higher rates on final products (21 percent), leading to higher
effective protection. The tariff structure is currently under review and some
hanges will be made in the near future, with prior notification of the Bank.
55.  The elimination of taxes or quotas on export activities is also
important. There are currently three reasons for export taxes and quotas:
price controls such as for coal and zoke; controls connected to CHUA trade to
prevent windfall profits from re-exporting of products which are imported from
CKEA partners at favorable prices; and controls related to voluntary export
restraints (VU.) agreed with OBCD partners. Whlle the quotas connected to the
VERs are rarely filled by Polish producers, the other export restrictions will
be progressively phased out as remaining domestic price controls are
eliminated and CHUA prices approach world prices at comparable exchange rates.
By the end of 1992, there will be no more restrictions on coal exports (see
para. 42), and CHUA reform is rapidly gaining momentum.
56.  In contrast to the recently introduced market-based system for trade
with the convertible currency area, a major source of inefficiency for
Industry is the continuing participation in the CHUA trading system on which
Poland remains dependent. The CKIA system is ready for reform, and a number
of options are currently being discussed. However, a coherent strategy hs
not yet been formulated. Poland's options obviously start from the Polish
reform stance, i.e *, the rapid transformation into a market economy in which -
domestic prices are linked with world prices through an equilibrium exchange
rate. There is room for a differentiated strategy that recognizes prevailing
realities of dependence on raw materials, capital stock, and emloyment, while
supporting the market-oriented reform process as much as possible, and aims in
the end at placing trade with CHUA partners on strict efficiency grounds.
57* Further progress with the Polish reform depends in good measure on
microeconomic agents being able to adjust to a uniform set-of parametors that
are interlinked with those of world markets. Inasmuch as relative
transferable ruble prices (TRPs) differ considerably from domestic relative
prices (even if these were fully streamlined with world prices), the domestic
reform process can proceed smoothly only if those TRPs associated with quota
comitments are insulated from donestic accounting, i.e., all protocol trade
(for which Poland comits Itself to export some products and import others at
prices that do not reflect underlying scarcities) woull1;fiave to be buffered at    - -



- 19     '
th, border through taxes or subsidies. On the other hand, all trade with the
TRP area that is conducted at freely negotiated prices should proceed without
intervention. Further work is no under way, with World Bank support, to
assess the competitivenss of fims heavily dependent on CHIA trade. This
will help to define Poland's negotiating position. Progress on actual reform
will be closely monitored.
(3) Enternriae Sects RefotU
58.  xUlgl;          Poland bhs over 7000 state enterprises accounting for 70
percent of total economic activity in the country.  Over 70 percent of
enterprises can be classified as industrial, with the remaindor being service
firms, infrastructural or agricultural entities. Industrial state enterprises
alone accounted for 42 percent of GDP and 25 percent of total employment in
1987. Large in size and capital intensive in nature, state enterprises
concentrate on the production of iron and steel, engineering and metal
products, transport and farm equipment, chemicals and chemical-based goods.
There is a small private industrial sector, with some sizeable firms but
mainly composed of small firms as well as artisan and household operations,
employing about 10 percent of the industrial work force and producing about 5
percent of industrial output. Farming has remained predominantly in private
hands, accounting for 75 percent of agricultural output. Private sector
operations are increasing, particularly in retail trade and services. During
the first four months of 1990, a net addition of about 50,000 small private
businesses has been registered.
59.   Through the end of the 1970s, with minor modifications, all state
enterprises were run in a centralized manner with prices, production rates,
investment, product line, and plant location decided by central planning
authorities. Enterprises exhibited the deficiencies typical of centrally
planned economies, i.e., an sephasis on (externally set) production targets,
to the exclusion of cost considerations. ln the early 1980s, Poland initiated
a reform process that aimed at improving stats enterprise performance by
changing the structure of management, decentralizing decision-making, and
imposing greater financial discipline on the enterprises. The 1982 version of
the Law on the State Enterprises gave a major managerial role to Workers'
Councils, which henceforth had the power to select managers and influence
general enterprise policies, including wages and use of profits. By contrast,
the state has remained the formal owner of, enterprises without, however,
exercising its ownership rights In an effective manner. Thus, the economic
and financial results of the reforms were disappointing. In essence, the
Workers' Council system led to a situation in which enterprise employees
tended to maxidize their own income at the expense of the long-range health of
the firm. Because of c,st-plus pricing arrangements and goverrment assumption
of debt-servicing and foreign exchange risks of enterprises, the poor
performance tended not to be revealed in company balanee sheets, but WAs
rather passed on to the fisc or the banking system. In 1988 explicit
subsidies to loss-making enterprises from the budget amounted to 1.9 percent
of GDP; in 1989, to 3.7 percent. In 1988-89, state enterprise borrowing
sbsorbe4 about 80 percent of commercial bank credits. Credit was granted at
highly negative real interest rates of some 35 percent in 1988 and 70 percent



* 20 -
In 1989. At the some time, however, enterprisos incurred lIplicit losses from
negative real interest on deposits. The net subsidy is estimated at about 3.6
percent of GDP ln 1988 and 5.3 percent in 1989. Adding direct fiscal
xubsl4ies to the quasi-fiscal subsidies through the banking system, the
enterprise sector was subsidixed to the tune of 5.5 percent of GDP in 1988 and
9.2 percent in 1989. These numbers exclude tranofers for centrally sponsored
investment projects as vell as the discretionary application of taxatlon
(differentiated rates, tax exemptions, arrears). The deterioration of overall
fiscal performance in 1989 was strongly influenced by lagging tax revenues
from the enterprise sector. The Government that came to power In Septeober of
1989 made state enterprises reforn,a key component of its program to affect a
transition from a socialist to a market economy.
60.  The policy measures implemented at the beginning of 1990 correcting
relative prices, setting real interest rates, and Increasing competition have
put the enterprise sector under enormous stress. Adjustment to the new
macroeconomic parameters through far-reaching re tructuring is urgently
needed. It is to be expected that any enterprises or parts of enterprises
will go out of business and unemployment, already amounting to oaer 500,000
(or about 3 percent of the total labor force) by mid-June, will rise rapidly.
An input-output simulation of the impact of the policy package suggests that
the nost affected branches are the following: fuel, power, iron and steel,
construction materials, transport equipment, and food processiag. Vith
increasing international competition and, thus, limited scope for passing
through higher costs to consumer, the overall negative impact on industrial
production is estimated to be on the order of 17 percent, about 9 percent of
GDP. To avoid major disruptions in the short term, some support might have to
be extended to help enterprises to survive and prepare the ground for
restructuring and adjustment according to strict criteria.
61. The SIstemic Reforms. The Government's overall objective regarding
enterprises is to shift resources from uneconomic to productive activities.
The intention is to accomplish,this goal first and foremost throuh market-
oriented changes in the business environment (as determined by fiscal and
monetary policies, price liberalization, trade and domestic competition
policies, as well as environmental regulations). These changes define new
rules which are applicable to all firms irrespective of ownership. Moreover,
-the following four specific actions are planned or already well under way:
(I)   elarifyigaoershin rights, both to permit private ownership of
former state enterprises, and to allow the state to exercise its
ownership rights (like any private owner) by imposing and
enforcing performance standards on enterprises it will continue
to own;
(ii)    xrivatizdrg the majority of enterprises as rapidly as is
consistent with the conclusion of transparent and beneficial
transactions;
(iiL)   identifying and llould erns non-viable enterprises having no
prospect of reform; and



- 21 -
(iv)   identifying distressed but potentlally viable enterprises and
restructuring them. The restructurLag process will have several
possible outcomes: the transformation of tho enterprise from a
Workers' Council managed firm to a joint-stock company and its
subsequent full or partial sale; the transformation of an
enterprise Into "a single-owner company", which would henceforth
be held and supervised by the State Treasury; or a similar
change of legal form, but with the ownership rights exercised by
an institutional investor/holding company.
62. Exercise of Ownership Riuhts. While state enterprises have always
remained under exclusive state ownership, the exercise of ownership rights and
management has been blurred by the reforms of the early 1980s which gave the
enterprise and the Workers' Council certain management autonomy legitimated by
that portion of capital that had been accumulated from retained profits
(enterprise funds) as opposed to the original capital injection (founder's
funds). With the strengthening of financial dlscipline through the enactment
of the Law on Financial Management of State Enterprises in December 1989 and
the amendment of the State Enterprise Law in March 1990 the state represented
by the founding organ (in many cases the Ministry of Industry) in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance can fully exercise ownership rights
like any private owner and force a non-performing enterprise into
restructuring or ultimate bankruptcy and liquidation. Similarly, the [law on
the Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises) puts the ultimate decision on
privatization into the authority of the Council of Ministers with approval by
Parliament.
63.  Piatization.  The Polish Government's preferred solution to the
enterprise problem is privatization. Sale of an enterprise (or parts) to a
foreign or domestlc private investor, it is hoped, will bring to the company
fresh capital, dynamic modern management techniques, marketing and product-
line know how, and general experience of dealing with competitive as opposed
to administered markets. To this end, Parliament recently passed a Law on the
Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises, that allows firms to seek and accept
private purchase of the enterprise or parts thereof. The Law also allows the
enterprise to put itself forward as a candidate for privatization to the
Agency for Ownership Changes that will implement sales. Moreover, the Law
empowers the President of this agency to initiate on its own the sales process
by identlfying enterprises with a high potential for successful sale as
evidenced by a good record of sales and foreign exchange earnings, and
generally sound financial positlons. About thirty test-case enterprises
meeting these criterla have been tentatively identified, and another fifty
potentially suitable enterprises have put themselves forward for
conelderation. The first set of about 10 industrial enterprises offered for
sale will be drawn from these two groups. Initial privatization of a small
number of relatively successful flrms is intended to test techniques and
procedures and get large-scale sales off to a good start to ease posslble
political oppoaition. The flrst test cases could be handled without passage
of the propos.sd Privatization Law based on the Commercial Code and the Law on
State Enterprtses since the initiative was taken by the companies. A large



- 22 -
trading firm and a small bank which have been joint-stock companies wore
recently privatized by selling shares to the general public.
64.   Another important feature of the Law is that it spells out the process
of how an enterprise is transformed- -changed from a Workers' Council managed
enterprise to a joint stock company--for the purpose of sale.  Over  the next
two years, the Government intends to bring to the narVet for sale enterprises,
the aggregate turnover of which represents about 10 percent of total sales of
the state sector in 1989.
65.   Smaller state-owned enterprises will be sold without having to go
through a legal transformation process. More than 6000 retail outlets were
actually privatized during the first four months of 1990. To ensure that
privatization takes place in an equitaihte and transparent manner, sales will
be made, vhere possible, on tne basis of public offerings.
66.   Proceeds from the sale of enterprises would be treated as a source of
financing in the central &overnment budget (below the line). Since the
Goverment intends to reduce rhe size of the state sector in the economy over
the mediua and longer term, these resources would be used for goneral budget
financing and, to some extent, to substitute for tax revenues and thus to
stimulate supply through a lower tax burden. These additional revenues will
be needed, inter-alia, to pay interest on the external debt which has not been
paid during the past several yesrs (see para. 126).
67.             a.  Following the amendments to the Law on Bankruptcy made in
December of 1989, all enterprises, state-owned or otherwise, are now equally
subject to normal commercial bankruptcy procedures.  In combination with
changes adopted by Parliament in December 1989 in the Law on the Financial
Management of State-Owned Enterprises, a 'hard budget constraint* has been
imposed on state enterprises. This has been complemented by a curb on credit
expansion, a major adjustment in interest rates to positive levels in real
terms, and a sharp cut in subsidies. As the hard budget constraint, as well
as changes in the fiscal and trade regimes, work their way through the system,
a number of enterprises, particularly in the fuel, power, iron and steel,
construction materials, transport equipment, and food processing industries,
will fall into irreparable insolvency and will have to be liquidated. Taken
cumulatively, the above set of changes eliminates or dramatically reduces
previously strong barriers to exit of state-owned enterprises. The first
eight medium-size enterprises in the range of 500 to 3000 employees in the
textile and equipment manufacturing industries are currently in the process of
being liquidated. In addition, three coal mines are also in the process of
being closed and five to six more are expected to follow in the near future.
68. BRetructuring. Though the Government is committed to privatizing as
rapidly as possible, it is quite unlikely that a large proportion of state
enterprises will be sold in the near future. International experience shows
that the privatization process unfolds slowly.   Moreover, the comrlexities
and delays normally encountered elsewhere will be multiplied in Ealapd, given
the acute uncertainty regardding several key investment parameters, ighluding
the issue of asset valuatioji, the future market prospects of many Polish



- 23 -
firms, and the dearth of domestic capltal and entrepreneurs.  Since the AGU
of enterprises will proceed slowly, and since the sore rapid alternative form
of privatizatIon--er nfr of ownership to citizoes free of charge--is almaost
certain to be ruled out, it is apparent that a large proportion of enterpriess
will remain in public hands for soam time to coe.
69. In light of the poor post economic and financial achievements of
Workers' Council anaged enterprises, the Government considered it imperative
to expose the economy to greater competition and impose financial discipline
by enforcing performance standards on all enterprises remaining in the public
portfolio. While an imediate, mandatory transformation of all state
enterprises Into joint-stock companies held by the Treasury as representative
of the state as sole owner, prior to the ultimato privatization, was
considered, this option ws rejected as being akin to the discredited past
policy of concentrating all economic power and decision making in the central
planning apparatus. The present policy is that the state will 'intervene" in
a phased manner and reassert its full ownership rights only in the following
situations:
--- as a pr-elude to the privatization of large firms, and
=- - where and when enterprises fail to meet newly specified
performance standards; i.e., when they are making losses and/or
when they are failing to pay the required 'dividend'.
70.  The enterprise *dividend- is a forced return on equity. The requirement
is that each state-owned enterprise must pay, monthly, one-twelfth of a sum
calculated as 32 percent of the amount of capital in the enterprise attributed
to the *founding organ' (normally a ministry or a province). This "founder's
capital amounts on average to about 40 percent of the total capital of an
enterprise. The dividend requirement has existed since 1988, but for two
reasons was close to'-eaningless:
- -   assets were not revalued for inflation which accelerated sharply
during 1988-89; and
- -   there was a ceiling on dividends not to exceed 25 percent of
profits. Thus, loss-making enterprises were exempt, and many
barely or slightly profitable,enterprises made insignificant
payments.
71. With the State Enterprise Finance Law of December 1989, the situation is
now considerably changed. Enterprise assets were revalued in December of 1989,
and will be periodlcally revalued as fiscal conditions and inflation warrant.
Another asset revaluation is planned during the remainder of 1990. moreover,
dividend payments are no longer dependent on actual profits and are thus
tantamount to the servicing of a senior debt. With these changes enterprises
have been given a mwh clearer and more stringent financial objective.  The
Ministry of Industry estimates that the dividend policy as modified will
require payments from enterQrises equal to between 5 and 10 percent of total
costs, with a weighted averago of about 6 percent. The modified policy is



- 24 *
roughly equivalent to the owner requiring a return on total "ssets of 8-10
percent, depending obviously on the specific financial structure of an
enterprise. (The real return obviously depends on actual inflation and the
frequency of capital revaluations.)
i2.   Equally important, the recently enacted amendment-to the Law on State
Enterprises empowers the Government to intervene directly in firms running
losses and/or not paying the dividend, suppress the Workers Council management
system, and turn over the enterprise to a Recovery Commission* that would
effect, with expert belp, a diagnosis of problems and deflne a work-out plan.
This would lead to the sale, liquidation or restructuring of the firms, as
appropriate. The lnvolvement of the Agency for the Restructuring of Industry
and the Bank for the Restructuring of the Economy (see para. 74) would be
optional.  Since it il probable that a large nLuber of enterprises will soon
run losses or have difficulty making the modified dividend payments, then the
real issue is whether the Government has the resources to respond quickly to
its problem cases.
73.  As of the middle of May 1990, about 450 enterprises (of which about 130
under the control of central ministries, the rest under local administrations)
were unable to pay the mandatory dividend and, in principle, could have been
subject to the newly established procedures leading to restructuring or
liquidation. The Government is studying the financial and economic situation
of these enterprises and has recently begun to appoint recovery commissions
for a number of medium-size enterprises (particularly in the textile and
leather industries) to initiate appropriate action, i.e., restructuring or
liquidation. The goal of this early action program is not only to effect
improvements in the targeted enterprises. b*t also to test and improve the
restructuring framework and to provide a demonstration effect for other
enterprises.
74.   The Government is presently training 'company doctors'--diagnosticians/
consultants--to review enterprises, is actively seeking assistance to augment
this group's capacity. Two specialized restructuring bodies will deal with
problem cases. As the restructuring of the commercial banks proceeds, they
also will be progressively involved in this process, particularly as they are
expected to provide the bulk of the financing for enterprise restructuring.
The specialized bodies are the Agency for the Restructuring of Industry (of
the Ministry of Industry) and the Bank for Restructuring the Economy (the
BRG). The Agency for the Restructuring of Industry, to be established in the
Ministry of Industry by transforming the existing Industrial Restructuring
Fund, will have a broad role in devising industrial restructuring policy,
diagnosing the causes of poor enterprise operations, devising restructuring
plans, training and assisting privatization as well as providing financing.
The proposed BRG would be mainly a financing body, with the possibility of
taking equity positions. Based on current thinking, which has yet to be
translated into statutes and internal policy guidelines, both bodies would
separate the tasks of preparing restructuring plans from making the decisi9n
on whether to fund that plan. Since the bulk of the financing will have to
come from the banking system,;there is an additional filter for judging the
soundness of restructuring plans. At this stage of the reform process, it is



- 25 -
impossible to envisage specific action programs with quantitative targets
regarding restructuring or liquidation. However, the process will be closely
monitored by the Government and the Bank. Enterprise restructuring will also
have to be closely coordinated with the restructuring of banks and the
adoption of respective action programs (see para. 93).
75. -The Government cannot directly intervene in enterprises that make
profits and pay their dividends.  The only exceptions are when the
Government's intentiOn is to privatize the enterprise, or when the Workers'
Council requests intervention.   While government powers derived from
ownership may fall short,of the ideal, the combination of policy, procedural
and institutional changes--with regard to privatizatlon, the elimination of
barriers to exit, the Imposition of a lhard budget covstraint, the setting of
clear financial perforwance standards, and the ceation of machanigms allowing
the owner to enforce the stand*rds--amofntt to a radical and beneficial change
in the way the Polish enterprise sector is managed, Actual performance will
depend lose on additional powers and toola of intervention and more on the
Government's determination to stay the course taken at the beginning of 1990,
which would give markets an ever increasing role in steering the economy and
progressively reduce discretionary government intervention.
(4) Competition and DRgXulation
76.  The development of the state enterprise sector in Poland hats generally
followed a monopolistic, or else highly concentrated, pattern. This
development was a natural consequence of central planning - where prices,
outputs and supplies were centrally allocated or administered and competition
was not a policy objective. Monopolistic structures exist in commerce and
trade, as well as in production. Moreover, high concentration has led to a
large a,verage firm size. This tendency has been reinforced by additional
historical factors typical for socialist economies: the provision of a large
number of worker-related services (housing, health, kindergartens, canteens,
etc.), and uncertainties in material supply and the poorly developed external
provision of services (e.g. machinery repair, warehousing, truck
transportation). Pinally, the system of cascading turnover taxation has
encouraged vertical integration. This pattern of industrial organization is
inimical to long term growth, as it constraits the efficiency gains available
through division of labor and more appropriate resource allocation.
Accordingly, encouraging competition in the economy is a major government
priority.
77.   Several actions already undertaken through the ETP, provide basic
building blocks in establishing a competitive environment. These include:
price liberalization; cuts or elLmination of subsidies; and trade     l
liberalizatlon. This last measure is likely to be particularly important ln
disciplining domestic price setting through the forces of international
competition. In addition, the Government is attempting to ensure that in
areas such as procurement, taxation and credit, discriminatory practices which
favor the perpetuation of monopolies do not occur. Pinally, initial steps
have already been undertaken to break up "multi-plant" operations in a number
of sectors including meat processing, coal, and transportation services. The



- 26 .
distribution trades are being readied for dismantling into smaller firm, and
agricultural input suppliers are also being de-monpolized as a matter of
priorlty.
78.   In March 1990, a new Law Counteracting Nonopoly Practlces was enacted.
Under thls law an independent Anti-Monopoly Offlce was establlshed in April
1990 reporting directly to the Councll of Ministers. The law systematically
provides sanctions and re mdies against a number of Lnjuries to competitive
processes, particularly those associated with abuse of dominant position, but
also covering a varioty of horizontal and vertLcal restraLnts to competition.
The law is modelled upon similar leglslation in Western market econo4ies. In
addition, however, to discovering and prosecuting anti-competitive behavior,
the Anti-Monopoly office will hav indopendent powers to initiate de-
monopolizatLon, through targeting heavily cancentrated, multiple-plant
enterprises for breakup. The OECD, In close coordination wLth the Bank, is
providing technical assistance to the Anti-Nonopoly Office in executing work
proVrams and developing the capacLty to fulfill its mandate. A work program
for the first year of operations has been adopted, with prLority given to the
distributLon sectors--wholesale and retail trade, and road haulage--as w1ll as
food economy and servlces. Demonopolization ln these key areas should help to
benefit producers, particularly in agriculture and small-scale industry and
construction so as to stimulate supply response across a wide variety of
buslnesses. Action programs to de-monopolize these sectors, with monitorable
steps for implementation, will be developed and started to be implemented as a
condition of second tranche release of the proposed SAL. The EC has signalled
its willingness to provide grant money to fund the requlrements of the agency.
79.  Fosterlng competltion in the Polish economy is part of a wider complex
of issues associated with developing both market incentives and an enterprise
culture where firms strive to provide the hlghest quality products at the
lowest prices. In this endeavour, the successful development of a thriving
prlvate sector is essentlal. Privatization and restructurLig of exlsting
state enterprises constitute one important step towards this goal. As
important, however, will be the removal of barriers to entry by small and
medium-scale enterprLses. Chief among these barriers are lack of a cadre of
entrepreneurs, lack of business lnformation and knowledge, and llmited access
to credit. While forelgn investment, particularly through well conceived
Joint ventures, may be expected to play a role, posltive steps to fostering
the development of a small and medium enterprise sector need to be encouraged.
In parallel, the Bank is now working with the Government on the preparation of
a speclflc program to promote small and medium enterprise formation, including
a component for micro-enterprLses.
(5)  1 Lzm t
80.  PagLst tntgS.  The severe degradation of Pbland's environment can be
attributed largely to systemic problems assoclated with central planning--
industry's high share of national output, wi-h a bias towards heavy industry
and high material and energy intensity; neglect of operation, maintenance,
rehabilitation and modernization; and a constant shortage of lnvestment funds,
especially for *non-productive" purposes such as pollutlon monitoring and



- 27 -
abatemoent. In addition, the pattern of production and consumption reflects
the cumulativ Impact of inefficient pricing policies, particularly in public
utilities--water, sewerage, heat, gas, electricity. The greatest negative
impact on the environment has arisen from Poland's extreme reliance on under-
prieod coal and lignite for primary energy consumption.
81. Envlronmental goals need to be incorporated into the broader
"efficiency* gnals of enterprise sector reform and, in particular, as an
integral part of public utility pricing reform. Pollution pricing,
enforcement of envirormental standards, and specific abatement imestments
also needs to be reviewed. The modification of current practices in these
areas may he  serious ponsequences in deterdining the viability of
enterprises which need to be taken into account as enterprises undergo
restructuring and reform.
82.  In practice,ithe existing system of fees and fines is effectively
nullified by the low levels of payments (much lower than the clean-up costs),
and by the lack of adequate monitoring. Fees and fines provide insufficient
incentives to encourage enterprises to manage their operations more
efficiently, to switch to less polltiting sources of energy, or to install
pollution control equipment. Many enterprises seem to ignore the
enviromental regulations altogether, while the remainder prefer to pay the
fines and to continue with gross violations of the emission standards. In
fact, a significant part of Poland's difficulties with environmental
protection can be explained by the existence of ad-hoe exemptions and unclear
negotiated settlements and agreements between enterprises and lojiewodships.
83.  Environmental protection investments in Poland are well below government
targets; plans call for substantial investments in areas such as sewage
treatment, coal cleaning, mining effluent desalination, and flue gas
desulphurization. These programs are likely to remain largely unfinanced
until there are major changes in public utility pricing; pollution pricing,
monitoring and enfore_mnt; enterprise behavior in the socialized iector; and
the process of defining priorities for centrally-financed investments. At
present, the haphazard process of defining investment priotities hampers
efficient resource allocation and effective mitigation of environmental
problems. The most cost-effective short-term' imestments in environmental
protection will be those that provide environmental benefits as a "free" by-
product (e.g. coal washing).
84.  Policy Reforms. To ensure that the process of enterprise restructuring
and privatization will take place on an evironmentally sound basis, the
Government has initiated a process of reviewing and revising the current
system of laws and regulations affecting environmental management. On March
1, 1990, air emission standards for SO, NOs, and particulates were introduced
for all fuel combustion processes. After a review of the practice in EC
countries, a slmilar set of standards for liquid effluents will be adopted and
implemented by the end of 1990. These standards represent minimum national
standards which will be strictly enforced. In the future, stricter emission
and effluent standards may be adopted at a regional or local level.



-28.
85. An a prerequisite for successful enforcemaent of the new standards, the
Government io reviewiag the existing system of fees and fines and intends to
adopt. by the end of 1990, a revised system of economic instruments based on
relevant OECD experience. Under such a system, economically efficient
environmental policy measures would be introduced at all administrative
levels, allowing environmental objectives to be achieved in a least-cost
uanner. The Government expects to draw on the exportise to be provided under
the 8snk supported Environment Management Project, approved by the Board on
April 24, 1990. Policy measures which require major legislative changes wlll
be discussed with the Bank prior to submission to Parliament.
86. In parallel, the Government is now designing a program for a legally
enforceable process of negotiations for phased implementation of revised
emission/effluent standards for existing enterprises. This requires first a
careful analysis of the costs and benefits of alternative emission/effluent
levels on a regional scale, taking into account proposals for industrial
restructuring and/or privatization, as well as the health and welfare of the
affected populations. The program will require refinements and adjustments as
better information on local environmeatal conditions becomes available, and as
the economic aspects of the industrial restructuring process are better
understood. In order to meet ambient environmental standards as a by-product
of such restructuring, judicious choices between new-process and end-of-pipe
technologies will have to be made. After a transitional period of seven
years, differential treatment of "existing" and new" sources of pollution
will be phased out, so that new, potentially more efficient, enterprises are
not placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to existing enterprises.
87.  Finally, as part of the process of creating a simple, transparent, and
efficient tax system, the Government intends to eliminato tax holidays for
environmental investments. Although such tax breaks have not been widely used
in Poland in their current version, they do promote a wasteful use of
resources by encouraging end-of-pipe environmental control technologies, even
if these represent less efficient solutions. The Ministry of Environment
Protection, Natural Resources, and Forestry will review the effectiveness of
this instrument by the end of 1990 and will propose a solution. Progress in
the enviromental field is a critical element of successful enterprise reform
and restructuring and will be reviewed within the context of the overall
program review prior to the release of the second tranche of the proposed SAL.
(6) Financial Sector Reform
88.  Introduction. Until recently, there was no financial system to speak
of: commercial credit to enterprises was provided mainly through the National
Bank of Poland (NIP), which was not a real Central Bank, and programs of
subsidized directed credit existed for special purposes such as agriculture
(food economy), housing, export development, energy saving, and others.
Direct credit allocation and highly negatlve lending rates (in real terms)
were one of the prime vehicles to subsidize the enterprise sector.
89.  In 1987, the institutional setting started to be reformed, with the
establishment of an independent savings bank. tIn early 1989, NBP was set up



- 29
as a central bank with powers and responsibilities normally associated with
central banks, while nine indepndent commercial banks were establbshed which
took over VBP's comerclal loan portfollo. A new Banking Law was enacted in
January 1989, and the interest rate policy gradually liberalized beginning in
August 1989. These reforms set the stage for the development of an efficient
financial system. At present, however, banks still dominate the financial
sector, and existing institutions suffer from major distortions inherited from
past policies. Their major weaknesses are: a lack of autonomy, and an
excesasve reliance on Central Bank refinancing and government back-up; weak
-portfolLos with excessive sectoral and regional concentration; the extreme
segmentation of their activities, with lack of real competition; a general
lack of banking-skills needed in a market economy environment; small branch
networks; and an inadequate financial structure.
90.   Interest rate policy underwent significant changes in stages since
August 1989. Preferential interest rates have been ralsed while the
remaining subsidLes are now assumed by the budget. As part of the
stabilization program initiated on January 1, 1990, NBP's refinancing- rate was
substantially adjusted, in line wLth the projected average inflation, and
credit has been tightened. Branch-by-branch credit ceilings have been ,
eliminated and replaced by more flexible instruments of monetary management.
including the use of NBP bills which have been regularly auctioned through NBP
since March 1990. Noreover, NBP began to rediscount commercial bills of
exchange since April 1990. Commercial bills of exchange are paper issued by
non-ftinancial enterprises for inter-enterprise credit,
91. Institutional Reform Initiatives. The authorities are aware of the lack
of an appropriate framework and institutional capacity to run the new system,
as well as of the poor quality of the loan portfolios (particularly the
central investment portfolios), which are plagued with problems stemming from
the enterprise sector. A major review of the banking legal framework is being
undertaken, and the Bank has been requested to assist the Polish authorities
in coordinating initiatives in this area. The initial focus is placed on the
legal structure of banks; the security law; ownership issues related to land
and other properties; the introduction of prudential regulations; the state
enterprise insolvency law; bank insolvency; protection schemes for bank
deposits; and foreign inNestment in banking.
92.  The concept of prudential bank supervision has gained wide acceptance in
Poland as a necessary instrument of public policy to ensure the health and
stabillty of the financial system. As a first step, a department of bank
supervision was created withln NBP, with an authorized staff of 60 persons and
ctrrent employment of 46 persons. Prudential bank supervision ls being
strengthened through technical assistance under IMF auspices (see para. 93).
While the development of this nascent organization i6 proo edLng in a
reasonable manner, several iLportant issues are emerging: staff,
organiza ton, and skill weaknesses; the coordination and provisLon of
technical asslstance; and the appropriate model of bank supervision for
Poland. As should be expected at this early stage, skill levels are weak and
staff have little banking experlence, particularly ln assessing credit
quallty, foreign exchange risks, and 6verall financial condltlons.



-30-
93. With IVP and Bank support, NBP bas initiated a program to strengthen its
institutionsl capabilities, partlcularly as regards the formulation and
implementation of monetary policy, and the supervision of banks. In
particular, NBP's bank supervision capabilities are being strengthened.   This
includes the development of improved accounting standards for banks, which are
expected to be introduced by September 1990, and of prudential regulations,
with a view to harmonize accounting and prudential practices with those of the
EC. All banks are expected to a#opt the new accounting system by January 1,
1991, and in any event as a condition of second tranche release.- As an
Latermediary step, a number of banks (Export Development Bank, Bank Handlowy,
lank Pekao SA, and-the Bank for Food Economy) are In the process of being
audited by external audits, as a condition of participation under the recently
signed Bank loans for Agroindustries and Industrial Export Promotion.
94.  The introduction of revised accounting standards for banks is part of a
broad program to develop accountancy In Poland. The measures envisaged
include the introductien of Improved accounting and auditing standards for the"
whole economy under the direction of the Ninistry of Finance, the
strengthening of professional bodies and of the profession in general, and the
development of human skills through the introductlon of relevant training
programs. In order to avoid Inconsistencies given the extent of the program,
a steering committee is being established, composed of the Ministry of
Finance, NBP, and the Polish Association of Accountants. The new general
accounting and auditing standards would be in place and enforced by January 1,
1991, as a condition of second tranche release. In addition, NBP is
coordinating a program for introducing a modern payments system: a clearing
house will e established by January 1991, and an electronic interbank
clearing and settlement system should start functioning also by that time.
95.  The Government ts also considering a program for developiz, stronger
institutional capabilities, in order to address the inability of existing
institutions to conduct efficient banking activities in a market-based
environment. The proposed measures would include inter alia: the
Introduction of efficient management and accounting systems, to be supported
by adequate computer and communication equipment to improve processing
efficiency; the strengthening of staff skills through the development of
broad-based training programs for the banking and accounting professions; and
additional support through technical assistance arrangements with relevant
foreign banks.
96.  An analysis of banks' balance sheets reveals the vulnerability to
changes just introduced through the lmplementation of the stabilization
package at the beginning of 1990. The main risks relate to foreign exchange
exposure, loans to state enterprises, mismatch between deposits and credits,
and exposure on the interbank market. Given the current structure of
ownership, the Government would be expected to step in and provide the
required back-up in case of a major failure. It Is not obvious, however, that
it would have the eans to do so in all circumstances, particularly as regards
foreign liabilities and deposits in foreign currencies. Before financial
restructuring could take place (which is a medium-term proposition), the



- 31 -
following prior actions and developments will be required: execution of
comprehensive diagnostic studies including full audits according to
international standards, to be initiated by the end of July 1990; adoption of
clear policies regarding the restructuring of enterprises in the socialized
sector, end the respective role of banks; and preparation of multi-year
business projections for banks, obviously assuming a more stable macroeconomic
environment with low inflation. Suitable development and restructuring
strategies would thereupon be elaborated and implemented. Technical
assistance will be provided from bilateral sources based on terms of reference
defined with Bank s-istance,  Program execution could be supported by a
proposed Financial Institution Development Loan.
97.   Prior to reitructuring, state banks need to be transformed into joint-
stock companies. An amendment to the Banking Law enacted in January 1990
prepares the ground for this transformation, and it is expected that several
will take place during the course of 1990. The Government will also adopt a
policy by July 1990 with regard to Central Investments. This policy would
define the Government's obligations towards banks currontly holdirg those
portfolios as well as propose ways of future handling and financing of such
investments.
98.  The gradual -de-specializationw of banks, the partial convertibility of
the zloty, the relaxation of foreign excbange controls, and the entry of
foreign banks will have a profound impact on banks currently involved in
foreign currency transactions. As regards domestic banking, the changes in
the Banking Law permitting a move towards universal banking, the
liberalization of the interest rate policy, stricter limits in accessing the
refinancing window, reforms in the system of interest subsidization, and the
establishment of a number of new banks in recent years have sot the stage for
Increased competition among domestic banks. More intensive competition would
also be created through an expansion of branch networks, with beneficial
impact on the satisfaction of domestic financial needs. Some financing needs
previously covered through the centralized allocation process will require
specific attention.  This incl es housing finance, agriculture, and the so-
called central investments. Directed and subsidized credit will continue in
the short-term, albeit on a reduced scale and with costs being assumed by the
budget. With regard to central investments, the banking sector--and to an
increasing extent the financial markets--will gradually become the main source
of linancing for a number of these investments.
99.  While institutional development is being undertaken on a broad front, it
would be desirable over the sedium-term to Litroduce additional changes in
laws or regulations which are necessary for the prudential aspects of banking.
These would include the following: powers authorizing banking supervisors to
mandate provisions for possible credit losses and write-offs of assets;
exposure limits designed to prevent the concentration of risk in a single
borrower or group of related borrowers based on the bank's own capital funds;
minimum capital adequacy ratios; powers authorizing bank supervisors to
declare a bank insolvent, close it, replace management, eliminate the interest
of shareholders, and purchase, transfer, or sell problem assets; rules
governing the licensing of new banks; minimum scope and content of financial



- 32 -
sattents; and enforcement actions.  For those aspects of laws and
regulations with which banks could not immdiately comply (e.g., reasonable
lending limits based solely on own funds, minlum capital, etc.), it would be
desirable to establish a phased program under which banks would have to meet
certain targets by specific dates. Under the Agro-industry and Industrial
Export Projects, partlcipating banks are required to develop plans, within one
year of signing, to meet prudential regulations and improve their operations.
To date, three specialized banks have signed on.
(7) Social SafMtY Net
100. 3ackrr"ma and gain issues. The transition to a market economy involves
resolution of a number of social issues which will be crucial to the success
of the transformation process and long-term growth and prosperity. These
include: (i) improving the functioning of the labor market, including
employment services, increased labor mobility, developing a more market-
oriented system of wage deterlmiation, and upgrading systems to monitor
e_ployment trends; (ii) the financing and administration of a system of
unemployment benefits and social welfare for those most adversely affected by
the economic reform process; (iii) upgrading training and retraining for the
unemployed, and the new skills needed to support new investments; and (iv)
restructuring of the health system to arrest the decline in health services.
101. Systemic reform is needed across the social sectors. Rigid labor
markets, with central allocation of labor and narrow wage differentials and
without unemployment, encouraged labor hoarding and other inefficient uses of
labor, while actively discouraging workers from acquiring new productive
skills. Since unemployment did not exist in the past, there was little effort
to develop policies and Institutions to encourage reallocation of labor and
occupational mobility. (Labor mobility is also severely restricted by the
critical shortage of housing). Critically, there was little capacity to
assist the unemployed with financial benefits, retraining, job counselling,
and small business creation. Employment offices existed solely to distribute
labor among competing enterprises, and consequently lacked personnel and
equipment to provide services to large numbers of unemployed, or to those
seeking new work. However, with unemployment resulting from the ETP projected
at well over one million by the end of 1990 and throughput 1991, the central
role of the employment offices in a functioning labor market has to evolve
rapidly.
102. The command economy has also dictated the focus of education and
training on the acquisition of narrow occupational skills. Although the
general education system at primary and secondary levels is quantitatively
well developed, there is a dearth of broad-based multi-disciplinary programs
in secondary and higher education which would facilitate occupational mobility
and the development of new fields of employment. Only 20 percent of students
in secondary education take general studies, the rest entering narrowly
specialized programs. Post-secondary education has been neglected, with about
11 percent of the age group participating, compared to 30 percent in EEC
countries. Adult education and training, although widely available, tend to
be narrowly specialized, whereas the pressing need is for broader programs



- 33 .
developing occupational flexibility and business skills. Training facilities
are frequently overcrowded, with outdated equipment. Poland is seeking
assistance from the Bank and other donors to strengthen its human resource
base and to equip itself for progressive integration into the world economy.
103. The ETP will place new strsins on the capacity of the social welfare
system to provide a safety net for the most vulnerable groups, which include
pensioners, families of unskilled workers, and single parent families. The
main-cash benefits include: (i) old age, invalidity, accident and survivors
peansions, paid out of the social insuronce fund, and calculated as a
percentage of previous earnings; (ii) family allowances paid in the socialized
sector by employers at centrally determined flat rates; and (iii) sickness
benefits, paid by employers on a sliding scale depentding on the number of
years of work. Uhereas it has been possible to index family allowances to
cover the subsistence costs of child rearing, the administration of pensions
Is cumbersome and slow, and it has proved difficult to maintain the real
values of pensions during the period of high inflation.
104. Restructuring of the health sector is also an important priority. The
past unbalanced public policy, which undervalued health care compared with
other sectors of the economy, has resulted in rigid, centralized policy-
making, inefficient management of services, chronic shortages in human,
physical and financial resources, and deteriorating quality of care. Although
in principle patients are guaranteed universal access to free and
comprehensive services, illness now poses a considerable financial burden for
many patients. Key indicators of health status have been deteriorating in
recent years. The proportion of low birth weight infants is high, and the
infant mortality rate, at 1.6 percent, is nearly twice the Western European
average. The crude death rate bas risen from 7.4 to 9.8 per thousand since
1965. Life expectancy, particularly for males, is significantly lower than in
0ECD countries. Although the population's demographic profile, continued
exposure to environmental pollution, and unhealthy lifestyles contribute to
these trends, the most imprtant determinant has been poor management and
Inadequate financing. Poland spends about 3.8 percent of GDP on health
compared with a median OECD level of over 8 percent. The impact of the ETP
(unemployment, short term declines in real wages, worker dislocatsons etc.)
will place additional strain on the health sector.
105. The Rgforms. The Government is planning important reforms in the social
sectors, for which sustained investments over the medium-term will be
required. These reforms are important wit'-') the ETP and crucial for its
sustainability and ultimate success. It has already taken major steps to
improve the functioning of the labor market, construct a social safety net,
and make training available to the unemployed. In addition, the Government
has initiated a series of policy studies which will support the restructuring
of the bealth care system. The Government has embarked on;a phased approach
starting with emergency-type measures which, however, were designed in a way
so as to allow their integration into more systematic development efforts over
the medium-term.  Emergency-type measures, such as the establishment of the
Labor Fund, were obviously urgently needed to provide some cushion to mitigate
the impact of the stabilization program. Reform efforts are being undertaken



* 34 
in three diroctions: (1) provision of employment services and promotion and
unemployment benefits; (ii) improvement of social assistance program, inter-
alia to be able to provide minimum support to people suffering from prolonged
unemployment; and (iii) up-grading of the health delivery system. Most of
these more systematic efforts require additional study and preparation work as
described below.
106. Labgo Maretso MG=JngyMent ALnefits. and fElgoyment Services.  Three
laws were passed in December 1989 to improve the functioning of the labor
market and the social safety net.  The I J1g    nt_iLa establishes a system of
unemployment and training benefits, creates a county-wide system of employment
offices, provides funds for training and retraining, and credits to
enterprises for job creation, and to individuals to start new businesses.
Health care entitlement will be extended to the unemployed. These activit.oes
will be financed from a Labor Fund whose revenue will derive in part from a 2
percent payroll tax, and in part from the central government budget. The Lax
on Mass Laoffs establishes redundancy procedures and a formula for severance
pay up to three months' salary depending on the length of employment. A major
purpose of the law is to increase labor mobility during restructuring. The
I-adeAtion Law empowers the Government to control the relation between wage
increases and the rate of inflation by heavily taxing excessive wage
increases.  A consequence of Indexing enterprise wage bills, rather than the
wages of individuals, may be to encourage greater labor mobility, since real
wages for those in work can only be maintained by reducing the numbers
employed by the enterprise. In addition, in order to avoid consequent wage
inflation, Parliament recently passed a Law on Social Welfare which, iar
ahia" includes a provision to the effect that the legal minimum wage will no
longer be used as a determinant of wage scales. (All but 2 percent of workers
In the socialixed sector earn more than twice the minimum wage.)
107. In implementing this legislation,' a major concern of Government is that
unemployed individuals should be protected from undue hardship during the
stabilization and adjustment process. The Government has therefore decided on
the following additional measures: (i) the minimum unemployment benefit will
be equal to the minimum pension and the 'lowest wage";w (ii) in line with the
policy followed for ainimam pensions since the beginning of 1990, the minimum
unemployment benefit will be set at a level equivalent to 35 percent of the
average wage and will be adjusted quarterly based on the projected average
wage for the quarter which takes anticipated inflation and actual wage
development in the previous quarter into account; (iii) as a condition of
second tranche release, there would be a thorough review of the capacity of
the benefits system to protect the unemployed from poverty, in conjunction
with efforts to ioprove the targeting and budgeting of social welfare; and
(iv) the institutional capacity of the employment offices will be enhanced.
The term mainimum wage' is not used as it has a special meaning
within tbh wage structure and ultimately determines actual
compensation at different levelis.



-35-
108. In order to ensure realistic budgetary provision for unemployment and
training benefits, the monitoring of unemployment will be improved to ensure
that timely information is available. Specifically, the Central Statistical
Office will, by the end of 1990, include relevant questions about employment
and unemployment in its quarterly household surveys. The budget for
unemployment and training benefits will be reviewed quarterly in the light of
current and projected levels of unemployment; and the budgets for training and
social welfare will be protected, to the extent possible, against erosion if
the level of unemployment and the need for benefit payments turn out to be
higher than anticipated. The AGvernuent has started to tighten unemployment
benefit payments to prevent abuse: previously not employed persons are
ineligible for benefits, and banefits are limited to a maximum of one year.
These limitations are to be seen in connection with the proposed improvements
in social assiltance programs.
109. There will also be regular reviews of the level and quality of staffing
of Employment Offices, which will have a crucial role in assisting the
unemployed to find work, arranging training and retraining, allocating funds
for job creation, assessing and paying unemployment benefit, and keeping
statistics on the unemployed and the use of the Labor Fund. For the purposes
of providing unemployment benefits, the country-wide network of over 400
offices will need to be staffed at a ratio of about three staff per every 1000
unemployed. The tasks assigned to the employment offices are complex, and
detailed specifications of their tasks, together with budgetary estimates for
establishing the offices are being prepared. With technical assistance from
the Bank and other donors, the Government will seek to develop rapidly the
institutional capacity of the employment offices to provide necessary services
to the unemployed, and those seeking new work. Employment servicea will be
complemented by training, which is contrActed out to independent training
institutions, and by promotion of small business creation, also under the
auspices of the Ministry of Labor. Training and retraining is a longer-term
effort, and the existing institutions need to be strengthened. External
support is under preparation.
110. Social Assist -e. In order to provide a safety net for individuals and
families, the Goverument will introduce a Bill by late 1990/early 1991
consolidating existing arrangpents for cash benefits, family allowances,
institutional care, and other benefits in kind. These benefits are means
tested, i.e., the income situation of beneficiaries is verified before actual
payments are made. The Government will take measures to ensure that the major
mandatory benefits (residential care and means-tested pensions) are equally
accessible to all, regardless of place of residence. Moreover, eligibility
criteria and guidelinos will be prepared for the provision of means-tested
cash benefits anA benefits in ktnd.
111. At present, the Government lacks the necessary data to enable accurate
targeting and budgeting of social welfare. Technical assistance is being
provided by the Bank and other donors. As a condition of second tranche
release, it will therefore develop an information system to monltor poverty,
as well as a data base to monitor the amount and purpose of payments and
details of recipients. In addition, the Government intends to seek external



- 36 -
assistance to initiate and implement a large-scale training program for socLal
workers. In the medium term, as administrative capacity and the fiscal
situation improve, the Government intends to extend means-tested benefits to
the whole population below the poverty line.
112.   [ealthu Servieesa.  In February, 1990, after wide ranging national
consultations, the Government announced the strategic dLmensions of a new
health policy. 'Thoe include commitments to: (i) promote good health and
prevent illness, so that demand for health care will diminish; (ii) diversify
the sources of financing for the health care sector, so as to diminish the
current total reliance on the state budget, while ensuring a stable and
sufficient flow of financial resources; and (iii) increase performance in the
provision of health care, so that the needed investments will lead to a more
efficient delivery of services, more equitable allocation of resources, and
improved quality of care.
113.      With respect to promoting good health and preventing illness, the
Governmeit intends, by the end of 1990, to define policies arising out of
studies on: (i) an outreach programme to combat the harmful effects of high
consumption of alcohol, tobacco and unhealthy foods; (ii) a targeted school
feeding program which will prevent the harmful effects of malnutrition among
children; and (iii) higher industrial safety standards to prevent
occupationally related dis'ases.
114.      During 1990, the Government will undertake an intensive study of
health finance, not least because changes in the financing mechanisms could
have potentially important economic consequences far beyond the health sector.
The options to be studied Include: (i) a compulsory health insurance levy
financed by contributions from employers and employees; (ii) supplemental
voluntary health insurance; (ifi) strategic financial incentives, for example
through co-payments for some services, full cost-recovery for others, and
higher indirect taxation of harmful products, such as tobacco and alcohol; and
(iv) a thorough assessment of expenditure on health care outside the Ministry
of Health and Social Welfare (11HSW).
115.      With respect to improved performance in health care provision, the
Government intends during 1990 to complete a detailed review of, and be ready
to implement policies on: (i) decentralization, taking into account the
ongoing Local Government Reforms; (ii) cost-control measures, especially in
the case of pharmaceutlcal products and the Introduction of high technology;
(ili) strategic financial Incentives to raise productivity of doctors, nurses
and other health professionals); (iv) modern management techniques for
improving efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity; (v) means to achieve
equitable and efficient resource allocation (financial, physical and human),
including affordable access to a limited drug formulary; (vi) investments
needed to rehabilitate physical infrastructures and to improve quality though
education and training.
116.      The MHSW has assumed overall responsibility for the conduct of the
studies mentioned above. To ensure coordination, the Ministry established a
Commlssion for Health Reform, and appointed working groups that will carry out



- 37 -
specific aspects of these studies, which will be adequately funded. The
studies may lead to specific investments in the health sector.
D. Nledium-Term Peruective and Ezternal Financfrs Leouirements
117. Intrag=tin. The ErP described in Sections B and C above will have a
profound and far-reaching impact on the Polish economy. The strong
stabilization program, the pass-through of international relative prices'with
trade liberalization, enterprise reform with demonopolization and
privatization, financial sector reform, and the development of money and
capital markets will create, over time, an ontirely new economic landscape.
Nedium-term projections must, therefore, be approached with great caution as
the degree of uncertainty is exceptionally high. Yet, the broad directions of
change are apparent: after a stabilization period with an expected marked drop
in activity, CDP is likely to grow at a healthy rate because factors of
production will be more mobile and used more efficiently, trade will become an
increasingly important part of economic activity because artificial barriers
have been removed. However, a substantial change in Poland's debt profile is
also needed to free resources for growth and allow m%cro-economic management
to focus on the daunting challenge of transforming the economy. Moreover,
fresh capital Inflow, preferably as non-debt creating direct foreign
investment, is also needed in support of the transformation and modernization
process.
118. The stock of debt is equivalent to about 80 percent of GDP, or almost 5
times convertible currency export earnings. In assessing the medium-term
prospects of the economy and formulating an external financing strategy which
would make Poland's balance of payments viable and thus progressively restore
creditworthiness, one has to recognize that Poland, during the past decade, has only
partially serviced its external debt with any of the major groups of creditors,
involving a number of rescheduling agreements. An external financing
strategy, which would include debt and debt-service reduction rather than the
numerous rescheduling agreements reached in the past, would help to restore
creditworthiness and greatly improve prospects for growth. It may be
considered modest in view of the adjustment currently taking place in Poland
and required over the medium-term future, both domestically (including in
particular the fiscal system) and externally.
119. In addition to the shocks associated with the stabilization and
adjustment measures described above, the dismantling of the CMEA trade system
will represent another shock in the near future, with substantial short-term
costs to Poland, but also much improved prospects for the future. The short-
term costs of this transformation derive from the asymmetry of the composition
of Polish exports and imports in CHUZ  trade. Almost 50 percent of Polish
CEA imports are fuels and raw materials, which are priced according to the
*Bucharest Formulal related to 5-year mbving averages of world market prices,
while the other 50 percent are processed goods with artificially high prices
which might require a 50 percent discount to reflect world market prices
(largely because of substantial quality differentials between CMA traded
goods and goods available on world markets). However, only 20 percent of
Polish CMEA exports are fuels and raw materials, while 80 percent are



- 38 -
processed goods. While exports and imports In the past were roughly balanced
when accounted for in transferable rubles, a switch to world market prices
will cause a substantial torms of trade loss for Poland In the short run.
Massive restructuring of industrial enterprises will be required but the long-
term bensfita from full integration into the world economy are considered
high. The Govrnuent expects that the transition to full conmertible-currency
based trade at world market prices can be phased over three years. This
assumption is reflected in the medium-term balance-of-payments projections
although there is considerable risk that the transition will be faster.
However, the current trade surplus with the Soviet Union provides an initial
cushion. Moreover, the current recession with sharply reduced imports Is
likely to result in a significant build-up of reserves which provides an
additional cushion against the expected negative impact from the dismantling
of the CMSA trade system (see also paras. 122 and 139).
120. Projections. With these perspectives in mind, a medium-term framework
for Poland could take shape along the following lines. After a sharp drop in
GDP in 1990 of about 14 percent, we expect an output recovery in 1991 of about
5 percent and strong sustained growth thereafter of 5-6 percent per year in
real terms as new industrial structures are created responsive to a
competitive environment. With the liberalized trade regime, elimination of
shortages, real positive interest rates, and increasing mare t orientation of
the economy, thus far excessive stocks are expected to shriu dramatically.
This would free resources both for badly needed fixed investment for
restructuring and for private consumption. While fixed investment is expected
to increase in relation to GDP in the short run, a gradual decline is expected
over the medium to longer term as efficiency improves. Per-capita consumption
in 1990 is likely to decrease significantly as compared to 1989, which  ill be
a test of the degree to which the Government can maintain popular support for
the program. Recovery could, however, be strong in 1992, with growth around 5
percent per year possible over the medium-term.
121. The recovery program is based on a balance-of-payments performance
dependent on export growth of 7 percent per year for three years on the base
of existing convertible currency exports. Thereafter, these exports would
grow at 5.5 ,percent per year. In addition, almost $1 billion of convertible
currency export earnings would materialize in 1991 from trade converted from
the CHUA trade regime to the convertible currency trade regime; similar
amounts would be added in 1992 and 1993 on the assumption of a 3-year
dissolution of the CHUA trade system. Imports from existing convertible
currency markets would increase with an elasticity of 1.1 with respect to GDP.
Simlarly to CHEA exports, it is assumed that CHUA imports would be converted
to convertible currency imports on a three-yeai period, with about $1250
million added to the convertible currency import bill in 1991 on this account,
and similar incremental amounts in both 1992 and 1993. Exports derived from
41 Data available in Poland has not been adequate to allow for a detailed
empirical analysis. Enterprise and market surveys now being carried out in
Poland under Ban ank pices will soon provide a data base which will allow more
adequate calculations.



- 39 -
CQEA but included in convertible-currency markets after the dissolution of
CHEA trade are expected to grow by 4 percent per year, while imports in the
sam  category are projected to increase by 2 percent per year.  It is quite
difficulW to project trade performance for goods in these markets. and, while
dynamic markets could evolve, there is no real basis on which to predict
anything but fairly slow changes.
122. A reserve bulld-up during 1990 is essential since reserves at the
beginning of the year were below the equivalent of three months of imports and
a good portlon of Poland's not reserves is pledged as collateral against
short-term obligations. There is an added urgent need to incresse reserves to
help finance the shock associated with CMEA trade conversion (which will
probably cost the economy more than $1 billion during 1991-93), in addition to
which a coimercial bank debt and debt-service reduction program would also
require some financing. Further, substantial foreign exchange reserves will
be needed to maintain a credible monetary policy. An increass in net reserves
of $3.0 billion is projected during 1990. Subsequently, in 1991, reserves
would be drawn down by 8500 million to cushlon the shock of CMKA trade reform.
A reserve draw-down could also help to finance a Brady Plan operation (see
para. 125). Net reserves are projected to increase to about $9 billion at the
end of the decade, whlch would decrease import coverage to about 3 months,
taking into account both the growth of existLig convertlble currency imports
and the conversion of CHUA imports to convertible currency imports. Desplte
thiS slight decrease, coverage would be adequate.
123. External PInw     Strategy. The debt problem must be urgently
addressed for anything like the above scenario to hold. The scenario reflects
a major adjustment of the Pollsh economy with a signlflcant lncrease ln
domestic savings. The adjustment cost in terms of falling consumption as a
result of a drop in real wages and increasing unemployment is high. Howaver,
the external debt burden ls overwhelmLng and the creditworthiness indicators
poor (1989 due: DS/X 75 percent; l/x 40 percent; i/GDP 6 percent) so as to
limit external capltal flows and prolong the crlsls lnto a hlghly uncertaln
future. The need for substantial short-term debt relief was explieLtly
recognized last February when the Paris Club extended a generous rescheduling
arrangement under wilch all Literest and amortlzatlon due was rescheduled for
a 14-year perLod wi,h 8 years grace, with a condition stated that other
creditors (London Club and CUBA creditors) be treated equally. Discusslons
with the London Club are ongoing.
124. Uhile the Paris Club agreement of last February buys Poland some time,
the short-term solutLon needs to be converted lnto a medium-term framework
wlthin which growth and development can occur. The need ls to define a
framework within which reschedullng and permanent debt rellef are extended for
a multL-year period beyond whlch Poland could be expected to servlce the
remalning obligatLons. WLth the progressive Improvement of creditworthLiess,
additional capLtal flows, including dlrect foreLgn investment, could be
expected to make the above growth scenarLo viable. Addltlonally, thlo
improvod creditworthiness would also stimulate domestic investment. Where
reschoduling is requlred, lt ls ssumed to be obtained on the same tems as
the February 1990 Paris Club rescheduling dLicussed In para. 123.



-40-
125. A Brady Plan package addressing the 22 percent of debt held by
coumercial banks could play an important role. With a financing plan which
could emrge from the application of a Brady package compared to one which
would rely on continuous rescheduling, however, the improvement in
creditworthiness indicators would be limited as the share of commercial bank
dpbt in total debt is relatively low; e.g. the interest transfer In relation
to GDP would be likely to still exceed 4 percent in the year 2000. This would
not be a viable scenario as rescheduling of principal would still be required
throughout the decade and the interest transfer burden relative to GDP would
remain too high. Under such conditions, it would be difficult to envision
private capital transfer in amounts adequate to sustain a healthy growth rate
of the z'olish economy.
126. Only by forthrightly addressing the question of official debt, would it
be possible to achieve a reasonable medium-term framework with progressively
improved creditworthiness. Quick agreement on the modalities of any such
arrangement would boost the credibility and acceptance of the GOvernment's
reform program of a critical juncture and set the stage for a lssting
improvement of the country's creditworthiness. Under reasonable assumptions
concerning such debt relief, Poland would still need to generate a large non-
interest current account (NICA) surplus in order to finance transfers abroad
and achieve current account balance. The interest burden relative to GDP
might decline from about 6 percent in the base case to about 3 percent during
the second half of the 1990s. This is still relatively high by international
standards, about in line with other highly indebted countries in 1988, e.g.,
Mexico (3 percent), Costa Rica (2 percent), or the Philippines (4 percent).
Moreover, it would require a major fiscal adjustment as currently actual
interest payments are insignificant. Interest payments would represent about
15 percent of government expenditures and need to be financed from sustainable
sources of revenues. During the transition period, proceeds from the
privatization of state enterprises would represent an urgently needed revenue
enhancement (see para. 66). Work on a medium-term fiscal framework will be
done in the context of the preparation of the 1991 government budget.
127. Vhile only a minor share of Poland's convertible currency debt is owed
to other creditors, it would be important to obtain similar concessions within
the overall external financing strategy. This is obviously intimately linked
to the negotiations of disengagement from CMEA trade. Such concessions are
not yet Incorporated in the quantitative projections.



Table 3: Nsero-Eoonce Asut4ous
1. GP at"   late (2)                                     -14.0     5.0     6.0      6.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0      5 a  5.0        5.0
2. Expo  witbout onesion Growtb Rate (2)                   5.4     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0     6.0
3. CM ExPor  dLvertd to coe crr trade, Growth Ra. (2)    5a        4.0      4.0     4.0     7.5     7.5     6.0     6.0     t.0      6.0     6.0
4. Impot Zl"sticity, Total                                 0.9     2.9      1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1
5. I1pots Elasticity without CHU Conversio                 1.0     4.2      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1
6. Ipot witbhout conversion Growh Rat (2)                -17.7    21.0      7.0   - 7.0     5.6     5.6     S.       5.6     5.6     5.6  8.8
7. Diret. Fore  InvestAnt, Net (MIn US$)                  50.0    50.0   300.0   400.0   500.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0
6. Transfers  et. nt n MUMS)                            1250.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
9. Reserve Level (Ln uso                                5289.0  4789.0  5039.0  5317.5  5711.1  6233.1  8756.3- 1725.3  7756.3  8$56.3  9031.3
10. Uon-Convortiblo Rssource Balanc (KLn US8)            787.8    59.3    24.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
11. ICOR                                                  -2.3     4.5      4.7     4.7     5.6     5.6     5.6     5.5      5.4     5.3     5.a
12. ORU                                                    0.8     0.8     0.2      0.2     0.3     0.3     0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
13. -1 (Fixed Investoent. only) as X of GDP               23.9    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    26.5    26.0    25.5    25.0    24.5
14. Cb&n* In Stocks as I of GOP                           -1.5     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0   - 2.0
15. Exports of Good (InU U$)                            8300.0 '10350.6  12602.8 15074.9 16853.6 I842.5 20772.0 22399.1 25343.9 27826.0 30878.6
16. Exports of goods & NFS6 (Mn U88)                    9144.7 11270.6 13614.4 16199.3 18127.8 20287.4 22387.6 24687.2 27222.7 30016.7 33102.0
1t. Imports of Goods (mIn U88)                          6200.0  9080.1 11476.7 13930.5 15320.6  16849.8 16531.4 20380.6 22414.8 24651.6 27112.1
16. Imports of Goods & Ws (MWn US$)                     7376.6 10505.5 13044.1 15648.5 17231.1 16976.1 20U9.0 22075.1 25356.7 27769.2 30a58a.
Fbs Iter:-
Exportsu Cknvertibl (witout cowenverted C0A)            8300.0_ 9279.4 10374.4 11596.5 12967.2 14497.3 15981.6 17616.4 19422.5 21411.3 23603.1
Expotst  onvert.d fron CME (Wln of Current US)             0.0  1071.4  2228.5  3476.4  3686.6  4345.2  4790.2  5260.7  5621.4  6417.6  7074.7
Imports. Convertible (witbout converted CM))            630# .   7800.0  8679.8  9658.9 10622.0 11683.1 12849.0 14131.4 1551.7  17092.7 16796. 
InpMPt Cenverted from c03 (mIn or Current U18)             0`0  1260.1  27986.   4271.6  4897.9  5166.7  5682.4  6240.5  6$73.2  7559.   6313.5  '
GrJss Doestc saviwn  as 1 of GDP                          26.3    20.2    26.6    26.7    29.0    29.3    28.8    26.4   26.0    27.6        7.2 
*lebt/GDP. 1993 Prioes & Excange Bate                      84.7    81.7    76.4    74.3    69.5    64.6    60.1    56.2    52.4    48.6    45.2.
,Per cauIea canousmtion arawth rate M1                    -5.3     0.5      6.1   -5.7      3.8     3.9     5.2      5.1    5.1      5.      5.0
Source:



Table 4: 'Base Ca.e! Ficaaunc Plan
(KALLUcS of 13S)
1. Resource Belao"                            1765.1   765.1   570.3   550.6   M8.7  1311.4  1409.6  185.1  2572.5
2. Tastnsers frsI  Abroad                     1250.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
-             3. Net Sexrvice Reeipts (mxci ltt)              -5.0   -10.0   -40.0   -80.0  -130.0  -190.0  -250.0  -310.0  -490.0
3a. nterat. Receipts                            385.0   452.0   535.0   579.0   566.0   533.0   436.3   507.9   504.9
4. M=-Inteorest Cuorrnt Account BaLance       3010.1  1755.1  1530.3  1470.8  1766.7  2121.4  2239.8  2594.1  3062.5
5. treur st Due                               3697.6  4042.6  4173.7  4367.3  4516.5  4649.7  4761.0  4932.7  5010.2
6. Amartisation Due                           2955.0  4227.0  3068.0  4509.0  4770.6  5059.8  3143.1  8050.4  5327.7
7. Total Debt Semrvce Due (596)               6652.6  8626.6  7241.7  8876.3  020.1  9709.4  7004.1  7063.0  10347.0
S. .Chmp in Reervs (- increase)              -3000.0   500.0  -250.0  -278.5  -393.5  -522.0  -523.2  -500.0  -65.0
9. P    Uinam  Weed (7-8)-(3a44)              6257.5  5562.5  5426.4  7105.0  7359.0  757.1  5751.1   301.0  7354.5
10. Fiaancin  (11412413414)                    6257.5  5562.5  5426.4  7105.0  7350.0  7577.1  5751.1  S36.0  7354.5
11. Diset F inw InveCmmt                         50.0    50.0   300.0   400.0   500.0   600.0   60.0   600.0   600.0
12. FWra Capital Disbaremt                      700.0  1633.0  1533.0  1572.0  2060.0  2431.4  3206.0  2952.6  4151.3
(iol World Baak and Othr)
13. OtDU= Caital. Mt                            100.0    69.6   140.3   220.6   270.6   330.8   366.6   461.1   514.4
14. inas   ap ZI                               5407.5 f3809.7  3453.1  4912.3  4506.3  4214.9  146.3  1367.4  2066.7
Mm. Itams:
Current Accont Balanc                      -302.5  -135.3 -2108.4 -2317.5  -2185.9 -1905.3 -2064.8 -1630.7  -1851.6
MP (i 1M)                                 56026.6 50594.8 63794.1 68346.8 73154.4 7665.0 O0720.2 60076.0 97103.0 
DIIT IL  n Q 8)                           45794.5 46981.2 46670.4 508U16.7 52593.3 54153.9 55740.1  56482.2 60525.6
Dbt/GDFP (S)                                 61.7    70.8    76.6    74.3    71.9    70.4    69.1    66.4    62.3
DM06T as 1 of REpore, GAS                   480.5   400.6   845.4   302.9   281.4   260.1   244.2   210.9   170.7
Int Due/Reprrts. Gas                         38.8    34.5    29.5    26.0    24.2    22.3    20.9    17.6    14.9
(Int du + A t due)/rsporta, 665              69.6    70.5    51.2    52.9    49.7    46.6    34.6    26.8    30.7
Ind f6DP                                      6.S     6.8      6.5     6.4     6.2      6.0     5.9     5.6      5.2
lt -To be tlll e thunxs deb U dJbt sorvice reduction or eqilendLnt suppor-
a/ lncluds com I alr elsady rescheduled by Paris Club of approxiaater 84.4 bin, sxcludes $3.9 bln La srem asihlb was a1sead  rescheduled.
8oren:   1mdm..



- 43
128. Based on comprehensive debt and debt-service reduction, Poland could
achieve a dbveloppent path with progressive improvement of creditworthiness
over the medium term. Existing creditors who are not receiving any payments
at present, could be, paid a ressonable share and the prospects for sustained
payments would be much enhanced. The IFIi, through increased exposure and
assumption of additional, albeit manageable risk, would play an important role
in financing such an arrangement. Financtng vould obviously be tied to
effective implementation of the ETm. Within this framework, Poland would
remain eligible for considerable amounts of additional World Bank lending,
beginning with the proposed SAL which would provide balance-of-payments
support during the critical transition poriod of 1990-91 (see para. 139).
129. The,approach outlined above which includes debt and debt-service
reduction is considered the minimum to raise creditworthiness to levels at
which continuing Bank lending would be justified, but growth in all likelihood
would remain below potential (with highly undesirable implications for
employment). The Polish Governmont, therefore. plans to pursue a more
ambitious strategy with higher growth (closer to potential) and requests far-
reaching debt relief so as to limit the interest transfer burden resulting
from old debt (excluding debt resulting from fresh capital flows after the end
of 1989) to 2 percent of the total stock of that debt at the end of 1990 and,
therefore, slightly less than 2 percent of GDP. The Government considers such
a scenario obviously more desirable and more commnsurate with the
historically unprecedented transformation effort and the great sacrifice borne
by the Polish population. It would bring Poland closer to Western-European
standards in a shorter (however still prolonged) period of time and support
the economic and political integration process.
PART III - THE PROPOSED SAJL
A. OrLin and Obtlectives
130. The SAL has been conceived as the first in a series of adjustment
operations (including SECALs and possibly hybrid loans) over the medium to
longer term. (For a full discussion of the Bank assistance strategy see Part
IV of this report.) The proposed SAL was first considered in October 1989 in
the context of discussions of the Government's stabilization and systemic
reform efforts.  A preparation mission visited Poland in December 1989.
Follow-on misions were fielded in January 1990, and appraisal took place in
February/March 1990. Negotiations were held in Warsaw during June 11-13,
1990. The Polish negotiating team was headed by Vice Minister Marek Dabrowski
of the Ministry of Finance.
131. As discussed in Part II, the Government of Poland has embarked on a far-
reaching economic policy. eform program, the ETP. The program comprises both
stabilization as well as structural adjustment and systemic transformation
elements. As such, It is unpreeodented in its scope and complexity and faces
great uncertainties and risks with regard to the suceo4s of stabilization, the
supply response. and the external financing in vlew of the country's weak



- )44-r 
creditworthiness and large debt overhang. The Government is fully committed
to the TP asnd, thus far, has enjoyed strong popular support in spite of the
emerging hardship in terms of declining real wages and rising unemployment.
Despite the uncertainties and risks, it is proposed to support the Government
and its ETP through a substantive lending program, provided adequate
arrangements for the managemnt of Poland's external debt can be made. The
proposed SAL is an ioportant element in a mlti-year assistance strategy (see
Part IV).
132. The ETP to be supported by the proposed SAL essentially pursues three
broad objectives:  stabilization, structural reform towards the establishment
of a market economy to improve resource allocation and restore growth, and the
progressive restoration of creditworthiness (including adequate burden sharing
among creditors). The ETP goes beyond the stabilization program agreed
between the authorities and the Fund. The emphasis is on structural and
systemic reforms needed to improve resource allocation and growth with social
equity and on an environmentally sustainable basis. In designing the
macroeconomic framework and financing plan, the multi-year nature of the
reform process and the uncertainties during the transition from the old
central planning to a market-based system has been taken into account.
133. The macroeconomic framw ork for the proposed SAL proceeds from the
program supported by the IMF. To add perspective, particularly with regard to
the restoration of creditworthiness, a medium-term framework and financing
plan has been elaborated with the Government as reflected in the attached
Nemorandum of Development Policy and Section D of Part II of the report.
Policies and performance would be monitored by the Bank as important elements
within a multi-year association (obviously maintaining flexibility to take the
evolving nature of the program as well as the dynamic interface of the macro
and microeconomic level into account). Similarly, specific programs and
policy measures have been designed in a way that continuity during a multi-
y6ar period beyond the time horizon of the proposed SAL can be ensured, e.g.,
through action programs being developed during the execution of the proposed
loan. Actual additional reform measures could be supported in the future
through a variety of instruments including SECALs, hybrid loans, or sector
investment loans.
B. CoDBDMJn4S9and      lonaliQlty
134. Individual SAL components are derived from the broad description of the
program in Part II. From the outset, It has to be recognized that the
Government's ETP is comprehensive and far-reaching and that the measures taken
since the beginning of 1990 go far beyond a traditional stabilization program.
Important structural adjustment and systemic transformation measures are
already in place, e.g. a drastic reduction in subsidies and a radical
liberalization of the trade regime. Further subsidy reductions (see paras.
41-46) and import tariff adjustments (see para. 54) are planned during 1990-
92 as part of the SAL-supported prog*am. The proposed SAL, in addition to an
adequate medium-term macroeconomic framework and financing plan with broad
understandings on key policy and performance variables and some specific
actions on subsidies and pricing, would support reform initiatives mainly in



-   45 -
the following microeconomic core areas which would contribute to the above
objectives:
(i)  ntrorise retructi. ivatizAtign. urivat  sector
develgopn, with emphasis on appropriate legislation to deflne
the *rules of the game  (including privatization, demonopolization
and competition), the establishment of an adequate institutional
framework for enterprise restructuring, within sound environmental
policies;
(ii) finapcisl sector ref9rD, with emphasis on improved banking
regulation and supervision, introduction of adequate accounting
and auditing standards (also applicable to non-financial
enterprises), and strengthening and ultimately phased
restructuring of the banking system; and
(iii) social safety net, with emphasis on adequate unemployment benefits
and employment services, training, small-business creation, the
development of a program of minimum social assistance, and health
policy reform.
135. The proposed three core components are crucial for the success of the
ETP including stabilization. The enterprise and financial sector components
are designed to establish financial discipline at the enterprise level which
is indispensable to eliminate the quasi-fiscal deficit which, in the past, was
the main source of monetary expansion. The social component, in turn, is
needed to mitigate the impact on employment and income, foster labor
redeployment, and make the program politically feasible. While the social
component empWassizes short-term emergency-type measures, it also comprises
elements for tlte longer-term development of a more comprehensive safety net,
with support to the development of adequate labor market institutions and
small business creation as well as the improvement of social assistance
programs and the health delivery system. Details of the program components
are described in Part I1 of this President's Report, and in the Government's
attached memorandum of development policy (Annex 2), while a summary view of
the specific loan conditionally is provided in Table 5 and in para. 142. The
presentation in Table 5 follows a slightly different format as compared to the
description in para. 134 so as to allow to add details of specific measures
already taken or proposed.
136. The program as summarized in the broad policy matrix attached to the
Government's Memorandum of Development Policy goes beyond the confines of the
proposed SAL. This applies in particular to the macroeconomic framework and
actions'as defined in specific action program in areas such as subsidy
reduction, bank restructuring, import tariffs, demonopolization, and
privatization. Satisfactory progress in these areas would be the basis for
future bank lending, particularly fast-disbursing lending.



} ~  ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  .. *.
-46-                                                        .
1.  Agxet"A Stmsus "mi mezcrcsceino                 14*        eneeo to ms"aroeoeom ftwvww*.' a
bm k   ith reasonJ4  ajutan path                   snetiteotory psegres with Orternal
of cauy4lt account and resnbefiamsioa  PIn, based cm extensive
.xt.xrl uiamciug stratew., in II=                       review. Key pe).icy variable  to be
with pmsejotiens.                                       reiewned in lh of  act"a   r:
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ma3 ineetz, noia ecag
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ltm    rate,tl
rate. foigel Oe2cit (Withresabe
expendture level = structure), nAet
dostic asseft and credt. ixpor
tarif.   *-  -teriff trade
restricien. price Policay (particularly
energ SAd tramsportatim)..
2.      H.c                       etor Rolafe           2a.    cOnnued reasonable emebe. ed
a.      .easomble interest end each*                    interest rate Policy (coweefd an pet of
rate policy to as" slaty            S
insmmet  s e                                                      ottractv. afd
exports cmmtitive.                       b.*    Adopti_   of prudetial regulatai a to
.!dreast capitaldeacy; landing end
b.      Pe*aig I.@ enacted In early iWO                 ievwbsoi linits; loo classification;
MO                   La Dec.                    ed .reort geuems. Adoption of
iR  to set up a tam-tierd                       aderwa  1c0*4M "aNd anditnstandards
bauing sya0.e with a central                    forzaLl (finacial end non-financial)
batk end a set of c gmciliese
c.  3 Crpltim of extera aUdit4s opfat" least
~~~~~~~~~~~~1 baka  ntittions. b.d opze tion .l2eNt
suiabe  ctenplans for Semditera
dogelepsent and restruturing of mint
oinercial boas based an diagnostic
S.      Piscet  Poliy                                   3*.*       e    t    draft 1901 budget within
satisactory     - ecutof .   19                    _t                fiecal end
of not nselthan 1Z of 90? far.             -on-  sdie s. social  o         nd
akole year sad keep total           central moveit"  ivsot.Action
steidies to about  U3 of the                             r      e      phase-out ot
b.    Pateisfty progress in tie pearatbion
ao  A  and to. ta  (draft legislation
bo e reviewed).
.   Trade                                           4.      luftth  review of trade, regime far
Aderence to trade and exhnetariffs ad reInifg export
regi. reotxd as of 1/01/90.                      etrAt                   of actio
u-ceen.(Th reiw aso wll take amIA
trade refo:rm into account, based on a
w.        *                 ,r



S       Z        * 0  a             0 u 
a!   tr!!           F         #     0i1|w
dWg0il!l m          -          [A,,i     l



- 48 -
137. The Mi.g       ni  f- ==ork and financing plqn for 1990 are largely
given by the IHF standby rrangement. The program initially had some
flexibility in the second half of the year. reflected by indicative targets.
Firm targets and performance criteria were recently agreed in the covtext of
the aid-term program review. The medium-term pro,jections are obviously
indicative and will have to be revised as the program evolves. The attached
Memorandum of Development Policy includes a number of key macroeconomic
variablos which the Government would report to the Bank on a regular basis and
which would be monitored closely, with more formal quarterly reviews. The
reviews will also form an input into the decision-making process for tranche
release and possible future lending, particularly quick-disbursing lending.
Variables to be monitored would be both of a performance (outcome) and policy
nature. The outcome variables (with broad target ranges) would be used in the
review of the adequacy of the policy variables within the general direction of
the medium-term framework (see Annex 2, Appendix 2).
138. Although the ETP is complex and its effective implementation will
require external technical assistance to strengthen the Government's technical
and administrative capacity, the proposed loan does not provide financial
resources for technical assistance. In line with the Government's preference
for grant financing of technical assistance, most of the technical assistance
required (e.g., enterprise restructuring, competition policy, financial sector
reform, and social sector development) will be provided through bilateral and
multilateral grants. Technical assistance in these key reform areas is being
designed in close coordination with the Bank and specifically geared to needs
identified by the Government and the Bank. In most cases, the Bank prepared
terms of reference to ensure that the expected assistance is adequately
focused and also helped to identify the most appropriate source of financing
and dellvery. Some assistance related to enterprise restructuring, however,
will be financed from existing resources under the recently approved
Industrial Export Development Loan (Loan Number 3166-POL).
C. Loan -Acunt. Cofinancni. and Tranching
139.   The proposed loan would be made to the Goversment.  The proposed loan
amount is $300 million. This amount has been determined on the basis of
Poland's 1990-91 balance-of-payments prospects which are marked by
stabilization and recession in 1990 and great uncertainty, inter alia related
to CHEA reform, in 1991. After the agreement with the Paris Club in February
1990 and an expected agreement with the Lcndon Club, the immediate cashflow
for 1990 has been secured. Moreover, the sharp drop in output and related
trade developments during the first five months of 1990 suggests a stronger
balance-of-payments performance than earlier expected for the whole of 1990,
with additional build-up of reserves. Thus, under current assumptions,
disbursements from the proposed loan during 1990 would further bolster
reserves. This is highly welcome in view of the great uncertainties related
to CGEA trade adjustment and the massive restructuring of the economy (see
also paras. 119 and 122). In 1991 there is an emerging financing gap with a
corresponding draw-down of reserves, partly due also to cash outlays
associated with a possible Brady-type debt-reduction package. SAL
disbursements would contrlbute to the 1991 financing requirements. Overall,
projected gross reserves would be about adequate to provide a reasonable



. 49 -
cushion equivalent to about 4 months of imports, after the expected decline in
1991. Given the very high degree of uncertainty in these projections,
including the possibility of a one-year dissolution of HEAU trade instead of
the three-year horizon assumed in the projections (which would add about $3
billion in 1991 to Poland's convertible currency imports), this reserve level
is considered prudent.         -
140.  In siuary, to determine the appropriate loan amount, the following
aspects were taken into account. First, there is great uncertainty in
Poland's short to medium-term balance-of-payments outlook in connection with
the CMu reform process towards convertible currency trade. These reforms
will essentially result in deteriorating terms of trade (mainly in terms of
lower export prices) and some export volume reduction. It is assumed that the
process will be phased over three years, but it could also occur faster.
Second, the import level projected for 1990 is the result of the recession and
a draw-down of inventories. During the restructuring and recovery process,
substanti..lly higher imports are to be expected. Third, the Government plans
to reduce part of its external debt overhang through debt and debt-service
reduction, in the first instance vis-a-vis London Club creditors. This would
require additional resources in the short-term.
141.  In line with current balance-of-payments projections, the loan would be
disbursed in two tranches of $100 million and $200 million, respectively. The
first tranche would be available upon effectiveness envisaged for late-August
1990. The second tranche would be available upon completion of second tranche
conditions as spelled out in pasa. 142 and summarized in Table 5. An important
tranche condition is agreement on the draft 1991 central government budget
(with focus on subsidies, pricing, social expendltures, and investment) which
would not be ready before December 5990. It is, therefore, expected that the
second tranche would be released not before early 1991.
142.  In view of the following actions that have already been taken, ag
additional conditions are proposed fo loan effectiveness:
Macroeconomic Framework
Agreement on medium-term macroeconomic framework and external
financing strategy. In this context, specific aspects of fiscal
policy, particularly pricing (subsidy reduction) for energy and
transportation have also been decided;
Enteftrime Refom
Enactment of the Law on State Enterprises and the Law
Counteracting Monopolistic Practices, including establisbment of
Anti-Monopoly Office;
Passage of Law on Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises;
Initiation of enterprise restructuring process; draft
statutes/policies of proposed industrial restructuring agency;



_50-
-     Initial solection of enterprises for sale;
-       sgtablishent of inti-Konopoly Office;
FLuinal Snstor
-     Initiation of audits and diagnostic studies for some banks as
basis for rostructuring;
Social Safety Net,
-     Passage of Law on Social Welfare enabling the setting of an
adequate inimum unemployment benefit.
143.  SnecIfic condition  for second tranche release are the following:
Iamroee    ic  rmmnzk
Satisfactory maeroeconomic performance based on broad target
ranges for indicators attached to the Government's aemorandus of
Development Poliey;
- Agreement on draft 1991 central government budget, within
dequate medium-term fiscal and macroeconomic framework, with
speciLal emphasis on reduction of subsidies/price adjustments for
energy and railway transportatlon, social polLcies, and central
government Investment. In addition, adoption of an action plan
for the progressive phase-out of housing subsidies;
nterMrine Refform ;
Establishment of Agency for Ownership Changes and Agency for
Industrial Restructuring and adoption of guidelines for
divestiture/privatization and for restructuring;
Adoption of satisfactory action programs for further
demonopolization of high priority sectors uch as food economy,
transportation, and trade;
Since the situation of enterprises during the transition to a
market-based syst6m with finacial discipline and intensifying
competition is extrenoly fluid, specific targets for
privatization, restructuring or liquidation in the near-term
future, against which progress could be monitored, cannot be
adopted at this juncture. Instead, actual developments will be
closely monltored ba"ed on regular reports from the Government.



-     Adoption of adequate prudential regulations and impleentation
of bank supervision and adoption of modern accoanting and
auditing standards;
-     Completion of external adits of thirteen financial institutions
and adoption of satisfactory action plans for medium-tern
development and restructuring of nine com_ercial banks, based on
diagnostic studies;
Social $afeIt, att
-     Satisfactory implementation of unemployment benefits. Review and
possible revision of minimum benefits with respect to poverty
line; and
-      Introduction of Bi!ll to Parliament consolidating existing
arrangements for income-tested cash benefits, institutional
care, and other benefits in kind, based on sound social,
economic, and financial principles. Development of information
system to monitor payments/recipients.
D.    efits and Risks
144.  The proposed SAL would support the implementation of the Government's
STP. Fr6m the descrlption of the ETP in Part II of this President's Rep4rt,
lt is evident that the program is comprehensive and far-reaching and virtually
unprecedented. The expected benefits from the ETP are that Poland would make
decisive progress towards the establishment of a working market economy, thus
creating adequate conditions for greatly improved resource allocation,
restoration of growth, and Improving creditworthiness. Greater labor market
mobility supported by an adequate unemployment benefit scheme should help to
set the stage for equitable, market-based sharing of the benefits derived from
restored economic growth. Greater private sector participation, including
direct foreign investent, ls expected to make a significant contribution to
gains in effLciency. Moreover, the change in environmental policies and
standards should ensure that structural change takes place in a sustainable
ond environmentally sound way. while the oxpected benefits can hardly be
overestimated, there aft also great risks.  The greatest risk associated with
the ETP is that the recessionary Impact miht be more difficult to manage than
expected, given the steep fall in GDP and high unemployment emerging in 1990.
This could have "egative fLical implications which could endanger,the program.
Popular pressure could mmunt to abandon or weaken the program for an,early and
possibly premature economic reactivation. Additional uncertainty and risk is
associated with the enmrging reform of CKQA trade towards convertible currency
clearing which is likely to result in a considerable loss of export earnings
resulting from lower prices and volume.
145.  The proposed Improvements of the unemployment benefits should
etfectively guard againat the risk that anyone should fall below the poverty
line from being unemployed. Moreover, (re)training and small-business



- 52 -
development program. should also help to find and create alternative sources.
of employment,  After sowe initial difficulties, private sector supply
response is expected to gain momentum. Many new small businesses have been
recently established (see para. 58). With regard to the negative impact of
CMEA reform, the currently reported build-up of reserves would provide the
needed cushion. With regard to the overall balance-of-payments prospects,
debt and debt-service reduction would obviously greatly improve the picture.
The Bank's proposed overall assistance strategy is also designed to support
the pursuit of sound policies that should, In time, improve the supply
response and general welfare (see Part IV).
S. NpnL=Iton= Asr   nSa
146.   The Memorandum of Development Policy spells out the Government's
commitment to report to the Bank macroeconomic developments including key
policy and performance variables, on a monthly or quarterly basis as
appropriate, as well as actions to implement the structural reforms. To a
large extent, the Government will discharge the macroeconomic reporting
obligation by sharing with the Bank the monthly information prepared for the
Fund. In addition, the Government will prepare bi-monthly progress reports on
specific actions covered under the ETP sucn as actual privatization and
restructuring of enterprises, liquidation, bankruptcies, etc. To oversee the
imlementation of the ETP, particularly the structural adjustment aspects, the
Government will set up a coordination body chaired by a Vice Minister in the
Ministry of Finance. The coordination body's task will be complex as the ETP
spans a wide range of policy and institutional reforms with the involvement of
a large number of ministries and other entities. However, the rank of the
chairman within the Administration should help to ensure effective
coordination and impl_emntation. Disbursement and procurement would be.
handled by NBP and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations under the
general supervision of the coordinating body. With the establishment of a
Resident Mission in Poland, the Bank will also be better equipped to monitor
performance under the ETP more closely and to support the Government in its
coordination efforts.
P. Disburse and  rourmnt
147.   The loan would be disbursed against general imports except for the
usual small negative list of ineligibe items such as arms and luxury
products. Retroactive financing up to $50 million (16.7 percent of the loan
amotint) is proposed for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1990, but in any
event not earlier than four months before loan signing. Counterpart funds
generated from the sale of foreign exchange by the Government to the NBP would
not be earmarked but would be available for general budget expenditures
including obviously expenditures for social safety net purposes.
148.  Procurement would also follow standard procedures as spelled out in the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits, with a slight
modification for adaptation to Polish condltions. All contracts of $5 million
and above would be subject to ICB, using standardized bidding documents. All
contracts below $5 million would be awarded on the basis of limited
international bidding (LIIB) involving price quotations from,at least three



-53
suppliers in at least two eligible countries, using simplified standardized
bidding documents. With respect to couodities, the Borrower has already
selected a number of likely Import Item (such,as metals and chemicals) for
which appropriati procurement procedures are currently being followe.
149.  The loan proceeds are expected to be used mainly for relatively large
conmodity contracts. Payments would be mostly through letters of credit and
loan disbursements on a reimbursement basis. Thus, a Special Account will not
be needed. Statement of Expenditures for contracts of less than $500,000 will
be used to facilitate disbursement procedures. The standard supervision and
auditing requirements would apply to both facilities.
0. Rank-1HF Collaboration
150. The Bank has been closely consulted in the process of preparation of
the DMF Standby Arrangement (SBA). Lkewise the Fund has been consulted during
the preparation of the SAL, particularly on all aspects concerning the
macroeconomic framework including pricing policies/subsidy reductions. In more
general terms, Bank-Fund collaboration on Poland has been close, and the first
Bank loans to Poland were made only after the Government had put in place, at
the beginning of 1990, the stabilization and adjustment program which was
supported by the SBA from the Fund.
PART IV   BDASSINC  S, BURDEN S N  AD ATD COORDINATIOR
151.   The Bank's assistance strategy is designed to support Psland's
development objectives--namely to improve the efficiency of the economy and to
upgrade socio-economic conditions through the market-oriented policies the
Government has adopted. To reach these objectives, the Bank is assisting in
Implementing programs to address Poland's key development issues--the reform
of the economic system, restructuring the productive base, and improvlng
creditworthiness.
152.   Bank assistance to Poland is being closely geared to the development
and implementation of the Polish reform program. Through the development of
poiicies and Institutions to implement the reforms, we expect to help identify
and thereafter partially finance investments needed to restructure the
productive base. In this way we help ensure that the policy environment is
conducive to making optimal investment decisions. We also anticipate uslng
our proposed lending to help bring in significant potential cofinancing from
official and commrcial sources. By diversifying the sources of new lending,
we share the rlsks of new flows, and also help ensure that all resources are
directed to high priority activities. We conceive of the scale and pace of
Bank lending as self-regulating: the faster the reforms, the greater the
scope for improved creditworthlness and consequently overall lending; the more
cofinancLng can be mobilized, the lower the exposure of the Bank; conversely,
if the reforms are not effectively pursued, Bank lending would be scaled down.
13. The proposed SAL would support far-reaching reforms and would be a
strong operation on its own. The SAL would also provide an umbrella for
further reforms which would be supported through other operations and other
forms of support. As the reform and adjustment process is a complicated and



-54-
multifaceted endeavor, World Bank assistance is taking various forms and will
have to be managed in a floxible amnner. Through economic and sector work,
the Bank is helping in the exploration and definition of overall reform and
development policies. Through the preparation of projects, it is helping to
Increase the impact of the selected reforms and strengthen the programs as
well as those institutions required to carry them out. The Bank is preparing
a stock of projects which will contribute to: the supply of goods for hard
currency sarkets (Industrial Exports, Agroindustrial Exports, and Energy
Resource Developmente; increasing the economic, financial, institutional and
technical efficiency of key infr atructure sectors (transportation, recently
approved, telecommunications, energy and district heating, housing); and the
development of operational and institutional conditions to implemnt the
agreed policies (Environment Munageamnt/, the proposed SAL, industrial
restructuring, financial system development, agrLculture development, and
human resources). With rogard to human resources and social safety net
consLderations, important sector and project preparation work was initiated in
the context of the proposed SAL which is expected to lead to specific
operations such as an Employment Services and Promotion project and a Health
project. Through this broad range of projects, we hope to strengthen and
accelerate the reform of enterprises and banks and lay the ground for greater
private sector participation in a competitive environment. These proposed
projects (including technical assistance as needed, mostly from other sources
but closely coordinated) would contribute (directly and lndirectly) to the
needed supply response of the economy to the stabllization and adjustment
measures and are being designed to encourage decentrallzation and the private
sector.
154.  The proposed World Bank program would translate into commitments on the
order of about $2.5 billion for FY90-92 and disbursements growlng from about
$300 million in calendar 1990 to about $800 million per year in 2-3 years.
The Bank's exposure would Increase to the equivalent of about 8-10 percent of
total external debt at the end of 1995 (strongly depending on the extent of
debt/debt-service reddction), with debt servlce obligations to the Bank
absorbing about 1.6 percent of total convertible currency export earnings.
155.  The Bank's proposed program is predicated on the assumption that the
ETP will be forcefully lmplemented by the Government and strongly supported by
Poland's curront credltors, includlng through debt and debt-servlce reduction.
In the absence of such support, the program might have to be scaled down. The
stabilization process has been launched with support of the IMF through the
Standby Arrangement, whlch is expected to be followed by an EFF arrangement
which could also support debt and debt-service reduction. Relattons wlth
current creditors are discussed In para. 21. They would remain the main
financing sources through large-scale reschedulings, some new flows, and
debt/debt service reductlon (or equivalent measures).
156.   In addition to current creditors, several other groups are becoming
important. The 07 requested the EC to take a leading role in coordinating
bilateral assistance to Poland and Hungary, starting with the emergency food
w Project recently approved and signed.



aid list autum. Since that time, the XC ha held a nmber of coordination
meetins and is working via special task forces on specific area---e.g., food,
enviroment, training, Industrial retreturing, and trade relations. The IC
itelf  nounced a ECU 200 million grant for Poland this year, and the RIB wa
authorized to lend about ECU I billion to Poland over the next throo years
(under a 100 percent guarantee.from the BCbudget). We are working closely
wLth these agencies to ensue coordination of efforts. Two cofinacing
operations with the BIB hbave already been negotiated, and EC funds are
supporting proparation of several proposed projects which could be financed by
the 8ank and other ofinanciers.  ioreover, as dLscussed in para. 138,
technAcal assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources is being
developed to satisfy specific needs identified by the Government in close
consultation with the bank.
PART V - EOAIDTN
157. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreemnt of the Bank and I recoud that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
July 10, 1990
Washington, D.C.
-I



s         thB   | 14 an r1p a   g anm   cr : ; fl 
1I .. .1      ad M.1i   a    t S. cV i 
urn  I    co      eaf E.Ig                        - lcuM
1   ',  _   X                     W   t      ka1= 
355        *s31  *'   Dp siZ fIIf
l  sefl< s t si W8t B1$s1
|~~~~e       a~    X3t2 N   U!.8  Xs I  .     . ;*1.E } 



U-
-~~~~        111 E   1   stIl 3S            S S i S 63 St 23    iB    ; 1si~
2%           ~~~1                        "" - 1'' "ta  "''^>' I
}~~~~~ us : 22    i2  t~ i~ *                                    lq      |            .53IS5I-
~~~~~~~~~~~.  .                               .e. 
-           tlill Lhi Iliwrl
I lip ri~~~~           I~~I1rdt1~~~~r.i1~
tti~~~~~~~~~~~~~lI II~~~~~~~~~~~



199 Per Cupi to WU  fn US: 1,85                              -OU      NAt8IMhhK AC 11
Mid-I98 Poputatfon (in aitilonms): 37.8
A. Natiamta Accasmts in6icestos as ghare of 0PCop
Nistorical (shame of GOP in curret pricesj                    omreli        In contetnt jW7 pilces
198     1981    1982    1983    196        1965    1986    1967    19        1989    199      19a       995    20n
Gross Domestic. Proic t MP    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Net tndirect Taxes..                   .        ..       .       .        .       ..        .      ..*
Agriculture                  13.2    23.6    16.1    15.1    14.4    13.4    12.8    11.0          . .    10.6    10.6    10.6    10~.6    10.6
Indastry                    53.8    43.0    54.1    53.3    52.6    51.0    51.2    52.2           . .    51.7    51.7    51.7    51.7    51.7
sevices                     33.0    33.4    29.8    31.7    33.0    35.6    36.0    36.8           . .    37.7    37.7    37.7    37.7    37.7
IResowre Balance              -2.9    -2.1       2.1     1.8      2.0      1.4   -1.4       2.4     1.8      0.1     3.5      0.2.    0.6      0.9
Expwort of GIFI             28.1I    23.i    19.4    17.2    17.7    18.2    18.2    21.4          . .    18.4    22.1    19.6    19.4    20.3
-Itorts Of ONFI               31.1    25.3    17.3    15.5    15.7    16.8    16.8    19.0           . .    18.3    18.6    19.5    18.8    19.4
Totat Expenditume            102.4   102.1    98.       98o      9.9      WS.   99.        97.7    98.2    99.9    96.5    99.8    99.4    99.
touta Consuwption           76.1    83.6    70.9~  73.6   7n.6    70.8    70.2    68.9    65J7    67.0    7401    71.8    71.4    73.5                    u
Private                   66.9    74.1    62.7    64.8    63.3    61.4    61.1    60.0            ..     8.6    65.1    63.4    63.3    66.9
Government                 9.2      9.5      8.2     8.8      9.3     9.4      9.1      9.0      ..      8.4     9.0      8.5      8.1     7.3
rsms Domesteic nvestment    26.3    18.5    27.9    25.0    26.3    27.7    28.9    28.8    32.5    32.9    22.4    28.0    28.0    25.5
Fixed Investment          24.11   18.7    20.1    20.1    20.8    21.2    21.9    22.6    22.4    22.9    23.9    27.0    27.0    24.5
Changes in Stocks           1.6    -0.2      7.8     4.9      5.6     6.5      7.0      6.3   .10.0    10.0    -1.5       1.0      1.0     1.0
Unatlocated Items            0.5      0.0    -0.9    -0.4    -0.9       0.1    -0.5    -0.1        .         .       .
Capacity to Import               .       ..       .        .        .       .        .       .        .       .     22.5    20.2    20.1   '21.0
Termsof Trade djustment         .         .       .                 .      .         .       .        .       ..     0.4      0.6      0.7     0.7
Groan Omeestic Inci              . ~              . ~               .       .        .       .        .       .    100.4   100.6   100.7   100.7
Grss Natfore nal omeas.                   .       .        .       ..      .         .       .        .             95.2    95.9    96.       97.7
Gross National Produict          .        .       .       .         .      .         .       .       .        .     94.8    95.3    95.9    97.0
Gross V*mstic savintgs        23.9    16.4    29.1    26.4    27.4    29.2    29.8    31.1    34.3    33.3    26.3    28.8    29.3    27.2'4
let Factor Income            -4.1    -4.8    -3.0    -2.7    .1.7    -1.7    .1.5    -1.3          ..     -4.3    -5.2    -.47      -4.1    -LO0
Net Current Transfers        0.6      1.2      1.4      1.4     1.5      1.0     1.8       .        .      1.6      1.9   -1.3       1.0     0.6
Gross National Savings        20.4    12.8    27.6    25.2    27.2    28.5    S0.1 I         .       .      30.6    23.0    25.3    26.?    24.8a



ULMAN --TIOUL AC1I (cotne)
B. k*Sanalt Accounts 8-osftth_Rates (1) at Costant PIRMce
-           ~~~~Actuat                                   Preot tojetin
1981     1982      1963      19184-    98       1986      1967      1988     1989      1990      1991   1990.0 199T'0
Grass Domestic Product up         -10.0  ~-4.8          5.6       5.6      3.6       4.2       2.0.      4.0,      0.5    -14.0       5.0       5.4        5.0 -       -
Net irNdrect Taxs- .                          .        ..      -.          .        .         .          .        .         ..
AgricuLturer                       I.        .         . ~       . 0        .       .          .        .         .         ..
1ndustry 
Services*.                                   *         ..         ..       .
Exports of SIFS      .          -18.2      6.2      .9.2      11.9       0.3       4..2      5.0        ..      7.8       3.4      -0.7       2.?        6.0
btmerts of SIPS                 -19.7-   -13.4        5.8       9.4      6.9      "5.4      -4.6        ..       4.4    -12.3      14.3       5.6        5.7
Totat Expedtures                   -8.7      -9.3       5.2~   5.0         3.9       4.1       1.71      4.1       1.2    .16.9       8.1   - 6.0          4.91 i
Totat Sonatption                 -3.7    -11.0       5.1       4.6       3.2       4.0       2.3       2.7      2.1   . 4.9         1.1       4.656
Private                       -4.6    .12.5        5.4,      4.3       2.6       4.6       2.5        ..        .         .       1.3       4.8        5.9
Governmnt                     -4.5       2.4       3.1       7.        7.8       0.0       1.0         .        . .               0.0~   3.2           3.0l             to
Gross  omestc Irwetment  22.2     -3.4       5.4       6.4       6.2       4.5-      0.1       8.1      -0.6     4t.      3W.0       10.2        3
*Fixed iu4vetment             .19.1    -13.7        8.8 11   9.8-       4.4      4.5       4.1       53s       0.0    -10,0       18.4      6.0
changs In Stocks                ..         .         .        .          .        .          .        .         .        .          ..
Unaltocated Item                    .        .          .        ..        .         .        .          .        ..        .         .4                   4
Capeilty to Import                 188        5.9      5.2      10.6       2.9       5.4       8.7        ..      -6.3      3.9      -0.1       3.0        6.0
term  of Tr-ade Adjustment            .        .         ..        .         .         .        ...                 .          .        .         .
G~rcce Domestic income    10.1      -4.8'      4.8'      5'.3     4.2       4.4.    2.6          .        0.8    -13,r9    S.  1         .   S.     D
Gross National'income                 4        .          .        .          .        .         .        .        0.7    -146.7      5.3       5.75.
Gross Domestic SaVings            --28.6     19.5       3.7       7.4      7.2       5.5s      3.3         .      -1.8    -31.9      16.3       7.7        3.4,
net factor Iuicani                3.5  .  4O.8-   -5.1   .-30.9         .1.2      -8.2      11          .          .        ...
Net cutrrea~t Transfers          61.7      17.5      6.9      13.0    -33.4       88.7      25.4      -1.8        .          ..                 .
Grost Natfosmt Favfngs            -32.0      36.5       4.9      12.0      5.4       9.4        ..        ..       3.5    -35.4    .16.7         .         3.9            0



C.  Price Indices
Actual                                            Preti               -
;    1980      1981     198      1983     1984      98      18        19 87'    18      19  10-5   195-8
:1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~  ~~          ..         ...     ...        ...    ...        ...   ....1...
Consumer Prices (1985100.0)       25.4      30.8     61.9     75.5     86.9   100.0,  117'.7   147.4   235.8   $12.$          31.5    68.8
lAlotoaLe Prices (1985=100.0)     26.9      29.3    65.2      75.2    86.1    100.0    117.8   149.2   238.4   745.6    30.1   465.2
Pretiu  Simth
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~    ~ ...      ....
1980     1981     1982     1983     1984        1985            1986     1987     1988     1989   1980-85
.............. ,      ;-                   *- - ..        -1984a 100.0 . .-. ....
ICplicef t GOP 1 Def tor          40.1    48.8   100.0   122.1    143.1   .168.2    115.7    137.8   176.8   297.6                     33.2
leptift ExpeCditures Deflator    40.39    28.2    100.0    122.7   145.1   169.3    115.8    138.2   175.9   296.0                     33.3
Oefetorais for Sector VaLue-Added:-
Agricuttural sector -.                       .       .         .       .         .        .        .        .         ..                .a
A   ~~I   tl
'Industrfat Sector !,, ,.  .. 
Servfces Sector
0. Other Indicators
1973-80  1980-88  1988-92  992-2000
Growtb Rates (Z p.o.):
Population                       0.9      0.7       0.6      0.8          share of Total         1970     19       1987     1992     2000
Labor Force   ;0.1                                  0.8      0.8          Labor Force in:
Gross  omestic Inoane p4c.         ..      0.1     -1.6      4.3            Agricutture         35.5     30.6    29.1       29.1     26.0
Private Consumption p.c.           ..     0.3       0.2      5.0            Industry            36.4    38.0       36.3     36.3    36.0
- ff ~  Services             28.0     31.4     34.4    34.6    36.0  -
IWort Etesticity:                                                             Total              100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0
Ipqorts (G0fS)/ GDP (mp)          ..     1.86      0.7       1.0
Olrginal Savings Rate:
Gross National Saving              ..    0.27      0.28    0.24
ICOR (period averages)              ..      4.2      -8.7    - 5.3



6E.  aimstIu  Macmat (Iii of Cnto Now  Zlty.)
-  V.  -  ~~~~~~~~~........ lwZloty.                            1--------- ------ 1964 Zloty  -'-                          -      w8 *ltys
Met indirect Tang             .       ..      .        .        .      .
Agriculture                            .       .
Roassce fislam.             -162.5   -95.9   116.0   158.6   202.4   129.2    79.7    66.3    75.5              21.0   532.    103.1   123.0   23.3
Iaypt  of GNP1            1241.1  1014.8  1077.8  1176.6  1316.3  1319.6  1520.3  1584.3  1663A1             3258.8  337.0  3347.9  3844.6  5144.9
top"s of Gas              1383.6  1110.7   961.8  1018.0  1113.9  1190.4  1440.   1118.0  1587.9            337.7  23389  3244.8  3721.6  4905.6
Touta E,qmdumte            63M86.   581.   5290.   556.0  S80~.0  6076.3  368.9  9251.5  9413.3  9M9.2 17705.  14712.5 1590.7 1970.6 2505.6
Total CwmAptimn           4612.4  4498.6  400.1  629.1  4403.9  4544.4  6542.9  435.1  6964.7  7152.7 1187.0 1129.5  11421.8 14153.7 186082 
PrItsw                  420.4  4049.0  3542.6  3734.3  389.3  399.0  5695.0  59A.8   MS0.7            - 0391.5  992.9P 10053.3 12152.8  16732.
Gavervamat        ~~471.0   449.6   460.5   474.8   510.6   550.4   849.9   65.3   39.0             1487.   1368.6  1368.6  1600.9  1355.3
areas onstle Irssuutm   1714.4  1333.0  1287.3  136.9  1443.1  1531.9  2341.0  2446.   24486  2646.5  5126.2  342.0  448.9  55M. 1  6459.
Ffxs I - p       t      1606.2  1300.   1123.3  1230.9  1340.6  13099.   1872.2  196.   M6.5   2148.5  40.54.1  3646.   4321.8  5353.   6268.
Chuias fn ftdwk          168.2    33.0   165.0   136.0   108.3   132.    463.6   489.6   412.1   498.0  1772l  -U5.7   160.1   198.3   253.1
mullocatald Stam           25.5   -93.1   -2.5   -52.1   -56.5        5.0    5 3.9    80.4    93OA                       .        .      .
Cq.citv to Koomt            1253.3  101.0  1077.8  1134.2  1254.0  129.9  1562.2  1616.3  1786.   330.0  3135J   3432.   3434.S  3978.  5319.
Tarn of Truk AdJsatmnt       12.2     3.2      0.0   -42.4   -6*.3   -28.7    41.9   -62.0   125.4    47.2    64.7    84.8   105.3   134.2   174.1
sas D-  A ~inti Nfasa      6280.   5445.   53.9  5130.   5930.   61851.8  9059.4  9460.2  97078  1777.5  15309.  16091A  1707.5  19002.9 2548.1
Glass Eatisial Iases                                                                                         1706.4 14510.8 1523.5  19143.2 24M3.3 I--
4ras Matiomi pro*xt                                                                                          1697.2 1444.2 1520.7 19009.1 24559.2
Grass Damhtia Saing         1607.   1147.2  1370.8  1421.0  1526.7  1637.   2516.5  2653.1  2743.1  5894.   4016.8  460.8  4812.1  580.2  6872.9 
get Factor tecoms         -259.6  -268.5  -158.9  -150.7  -106.1  -102.9  -149.4  -137.1  -123.3            -798.5  -6 -.1   60.1  -819.7  -747.8
Net Cirarnt' Tranoers      40.2    65.0    76.3    81.6    92.2    61.4    892   168.3   211.0   207.3   284.0   223.9  -218.8   190.3   151.9
aros Ntatioa Savngs        13881.2   943.7  1IM.2  1351.9  1514.7  1595.9  2456.3  2686.2  283.8              3502.   408.6  429.9  5179.9  6276.9  '



POLAND -- U04C FIWA4t
Aetm trouth
t960    1981     1962     1963      1964     1963     1986     197l    1988    1969p   1930-5    19r          lift     19imp
....       ..... ....        ..... ....         ..... ....        ..... ....          ...... .... ....    ....   ..... .... ... ..... ...............................
t.  PLeiA i fiuem  ( ShareS of GOP)
A.  Total Curmnt  eipt.            48.3     41.7     43.4      39.1     39.7     40.4     45.2      34.2     35.4     28.6    25.3       19.3     4S.0
1. SAnTaX    es                    9.4      8.4      4.4      2.8       3.2      3.4      2.8      2.7       2.2      2.9      $.6    163.6    -61.6
2.  Tax Reveune                  .39.0     33.3     30.0      36.3     36.S     37.0     42.4     31,S   -33.2       2s.7     31.6      9.8     6.7
fro SoeadtIted sector      35.3      29.2     36.3     31.5      30.9     31.6     35.9     29.2     30.8      23.4     30.1     20.5,     A.6
8.  Tot  C&urrtt Expeedtturef     45.3      49.5     41.5      35.6   -6.7;    35.9    40.3         31.1     30.6     32.2     26.3      19.5     44.2
1.  Purd mses   GoodSer S          3.7      3.8      4.0      3.8       3.7      3.7       ..        ..       ..       ..     35.9        .
2.  SiLfidfes                     28.T     30.8     20.7      16.S     17.3     16.5     17.6      1541     15.2     1263     18.4     27.5      27.2
3. Oc mrs                         13.0     14.9     16.8      1S.4     15.6      S.7        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        ..       .
C.  Current  udget SMlonce          3.0     -7.8      1.9       3.S      3.0      4.S      4.9       3.1      4.8     *3.6        ..       ..       ..
D. Capita1 EupendItures             4.2      3.6       S.8      S.S      5.3      S.7      6.6       S.6      S.3      3.1     38.5      24.1     42.2
1.  tawestaent                     2.8      2.4      3.3      4.2       4.1      4.S      5.2      4.4       4.2      2.4     44.1     24.9      43.5
2.  Nlodmrnlztlon & tepmr          1.3      1.2      1.$       1.3      1.2      1.2       1.4      1.2      1.1      0.6     23.5      21.0     37.2
8.  Overalt talnece                -1.2    -11.4      -2.P     -2.1     -2.2     -1.2      -1.7     *2.5     -0.5     -6.7        ..       ..
F.  MP at awrrnt WP             2511.2   27S2.6   S546.4   6924.0   8575.9  10448.8  12953.0  16939.9 29838.7  95193.9
(tIn of Zlotys)
I0.



W-    PO3 AND ItW
It.                                                                   Actual                                                                  _rCedi
........... ................... . ................... .......................... ..................   ..............................  ,...... ........ ..............._ . 
1981      t98       1983      t98       t 1985    WM        18        INS       18       1-6         18        1         19i
... .         ....      ....        .        ....      ....  .   ....                          ....   .  .... ..... .. ....... .. ......   ... ....... _
A. Ibt ForeI     S ASSet              -1.       -135.1    -139.2    -173.5    -19.3    -120.1    350.3    89.8   1,50.3             ..        ..        ..
A.1 Foreigi Assts                    147.7     222.3     2A4       413.0     510.2     707.2   1,473.3   2,640.0   5,40         368       103        79.2     105.9
A.2 Forein Lialtlfes                 271.1     357.4     40.6      586.5     708.5    827.3   1,123.0   1,747.2   3.9.7         25.0      35.7       55.6     121.3
*. Omstic Credit                     3,388.0   4,073.2   4,552.3   5,003.7   5,913.0   6,9t0.6   8,141.5  11,566.7  21,E4.7      153       17.6      42.1       87.5
9.1 Credit to the Socatlized
Sectr                          3,305.0   3,78B.1   4,145.7   4,538.7   5,29.2   6,22-.9   7,213.8  10,018.6  16,7232         13.7,     14.6      38.9      66.9
B.2 Crefit to the WaSoclatized
Sector                           164.T     223.6    294.8      372.3    461.8  -  579.5       741.5_  1,100.2   1,805.5      28.6      2L0       48.4      641
9.3 credit to the G"t (NOet)        -215.4    -123.1    -103.4    -101.6   -2137    *304.7    -244.5   -3C8.6   1,426.9           .2      -19.8      26.2     562.4
8.4 Settlts with  te Stot
9wbet                            133.7     186.      215.2  -  194.3     33.7      342.9     430.7    756.5   1,729.1        20.7      25.6      73.6     128.6
C. Bred Ne                           1,87.3   2,555.3   2,939.4   3,478.2   4,209.1   5,325.9   7,145.7  11,648.4  22,562.4       23.3      34.2      63.0      93.7
C.1 M 1                            t,069.5   1,485.2   1,647.1   1,903.0   2,292.1   2,792.4   3,515.3   S,589.2   9,708.8      21.2      25.9      59.0       73.7
C.2  msW                             11.8   1,070.1   1,292.3   1,575.2   1,917.0   2,533.5   3,630.4   6,59.2  12,166          25.9      43.3      66.9      112.2
0. ther item (Net)                  1,393.3   1,306.8   1,473.7   1,352.0   1.50.6   1,464.6   1,346.1       811.1     601.6       1.0      -81      -39.7      -16.0
" ~~~ of tideW
- Lon-Tem ForelW LIfabIltIes      1,293.6   1,886.4   2,027.0   2,447.6   3,351.2   5,413.0  10,1.4 0A   ,13.7  29,674.3       35.1      87.3 -    49.7      95.5
- freip Vurcy Watuitf-n
PAJiteBct                        -118.1    -7d7.1      s -O.5  -1;SI.S  -2,27.2  .4,674.2  -9,55L7 -15,462.0  -31,640.9       ..        ..
E. nu I Itens:
Sim e of NIb    hold by the
SoIalIned Sector                   41.6      40.8       37.9      37.6      33.1      32.4      34.0      30.3      32.6
Cham. ofCnwro Navy in Broad
eb'w                               r7.2       58.1      56.0      54.7      54.5      52.4      49.2      48.0      43.0
of  f i:h'
in the socIfaLzd sector           85.0      83.4       82.5      80.5      881       89.6      86.2      79.       582
in the oAScisalIfd Sectr          37.3      40.7      39.9       39.1      37.8      34.6      30.1      34.2      35.7
Sbre a Cads hn Brd Nwney           21.5       23.7      24.4      23.7      24.1      21.9      18.4      21.7      21.8
of ihidi:
hid by the  oeicladsed Sectr      92.1       93.2      92.3      92.8      92.8      92.9      93.1      93.6      31.2
"W 8 of e      t.                                                                                                                            -                      w           -



Key Itiroaturs                                      1908    i         1990    1991    1992    t993    1994        I        MS 1996    1997    1998    1999    2OOO
..._......__..  _. __....._._._........ ab......................................... ............    ............................................ ........................................
MP  asNtb late                                       *.1      O.S   -14.0      5.0      6.0      6.0     S.0      S.0      5.0      S.0      5.0     S.0      5.0
GoP gewb late                                        4.5       ..   -14.9      5.2      6.3      6.2      5.2     5.2      5.2      5.3      5.3     5.3      3.3
MPICWUt  sth lat                                     4.1       ..   -14.7      4.2      5.2      5.2      4.2     4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2     4.2-   4.?
~Nsst a1t C..g*tfca~ta Grautb ate                    -2.3      ..    -3.3       0.5      6.1     5.7      3.8      3.9      5.2     5.1      5.1      S.1      S.0
Tata t08 (Mtn us$)                                        40576.0 4S594.5 40981.2 4MA70.4 SO501.? 5ZS96.3 54153.9 SS746.1 S7212.6 5JJ2. 2   M1    605.6
ooDnes                                                      30.9   413.2   322.7    M3.2   252.9   240.4   227.4   215.2 - 203.2    MA1.4   119.7   16T.9
ODJ/0P                                                      61.2    In.7    ILB       76.6    74.3    71.9    70.4    69.1    4a2    46.4    46.5    62.3
Debt Esvls (go ia USO) Om                                  f86.0  6652.6   269.6  7241.t  8876.3  I98.1  9709.4  79TM.1   221.6  1183.0  9137.6  10347.0
Debt Umvtc  (Ntn U #) Faid                                 1634.0  1245.1  "S4.6  37885S  3964.1  4789.9  3494.S   435.6  6671.7  0615.7  7501.8  8236.2
Odxt etwve O(tnW US)  rWId                                 5002.0  3407.S  309.7  3453.1- 4912.3  450.3  1214.9  1468.3  1S49.9  1367.4  1435.6  20eo.r
Introst OtWlGS                                              29.4    33.4    27.8    24.2    21$?    20.7    19.5    164    17.3    16.1    15.0    13.9
ntr  Dw/mP                                                   5.2      6.6      6.8      6.5      6.4     6.2      6.0      S.9    S         5.6     5.4      5.2
Gss 1wmsbot/CDP                                     33.2    32.9    22.4    28.0    28.0    20.0    28.0    28.0    2s.5    27.0    26.5    26.0    13.5
am ot'icSavIusu/SP                                  34.0    333       26.3    29.2    2S.8    28.7    29.0    29.3    2D.8    28.4    28.0    2A.6    27.2R
lbtfmL Sw5r9s/SP                                     31.9    30.6    2.0  - 25.5    25.3    25.3    25.7    26.1    25.?    2.35            8.2    25.0    24.6
KrlaWmL Eatlamt SUwIw3 late                          1.3    -1.6       0.6     0.8      0.2      0.2     0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2
impmt (COw) Greath 3.t.                             13.1    -1.7       5.4      5.4     34       S.       7.3      7.s     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0
EsXPW     CoS&)iCDP                                  9.7    11.4    14.8    17.4    19.6    2.1    25.0    24.5    2.?    2.3    28.7    30.1    31.6
lprt (CGOO) Gruith Rat                              16.8    11.9   -17.7   U1S4         5.7     S.7      S.?      5.8      s.?     S.       5.7      3.       5.7
tOOrts CGmd)/GDP                                     6.      10.9    11S1     1S.2    16.0    20.4    20.9    21.9    23.0    24.3    25.4 A.7               2r.9
CUrOm AIsYmIt (EnI  16)                           -S70.3  -1362.2  -302.5  -153.5  -2108.4  -2317.S  -215.9  -1995.3  -2081.8  -19M9.1  -1s0.7  -1616.6  -1331.8
C0nVt,AC=iuntlCMP                                   -0.8    -2.8    -O.S    -3.1    -3.3    -3.4    -3.0    -2.6    -2.6    -2.4    -2.1    p1.7    -1.4
... . ...................... ..... ....................................                                               .. .......... ........ .
w



Page 10 of 13
amUD 111*s C*itet 0d S*
> ~~~...... .............. .......... . ..... .. ., ..... _................................. ....,... __....... .._ _. ........_
s         .....ro...t.     .         ..._.- -------------
tW      "go    "pi   a902   tw    t90          tOu    1906   ;W? "o      "      1999   20a0
.. . . . ..... ......... .. . . .__..... . .  . ....... .. . ...... ....... W. . . . ........... ..   ... .... ... ......... ._. ...... .. .. ............... ._.......
A. 01wit
OMctat Cditor                   ' 700.0  1IC3.0  1533.0  15L.  2010.0  1131 A   3210.0     &O    25.6  3453.6  4151l
IAitsle ,ral                     292.0   53.0   71.0            i.o       0.0    W*o.0  956.0   919.6  , W3.6      .3
of ida: IIM1                    212.0 ' ss.0   Tw3.0   02 'o M.    9WD0    RO O.           o   rn.694   W.!  101.3
f Chtal    I                    46L0  1100.0   800.   700.0  1aIA 1531.   23 Z..03.                .O  2t16.0  3150.0
Frlw  CreItr                       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       10      0.0     0.0    0o.      0.0     0.0    0.0
TtOW 01 bArsn                    700.0  W16     15.0157.0  206.m 01    32.0  334.0  2952.6  33    411.3
or  _h                           400.0   450.0  450.0   *0.0       O.C    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Nat ht-Tur Cwtt.                            ..      ..      . .         ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
otal ol 35 A fs tS               100.0 tlt  O  203 .0 f9W.0  12.0  830.   2131.4  3210.   256.:   N5.   3053.6  4f15.3
!U.  t _ 
Ofcal credtor            1.0  523z.   Z72.0  2761.0  451.0  4A.6  46568   21.1  527.4  1335.1  100.1  207.0
wAttllatal                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0        .2   142.5   2.8   m.5   375.8  442.5
of dudf:s ID             0.0     00      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         .2   142.5   225.5   292.5   35.8   42.5
of latoat               1110.0  52.  I 27.0  276.   4351.0  4M2.6  4L6   2006    A01.6  104.6  1430.3  143.5
Pva  Cresditors I/       1910.0   541.0  14.0   329.0   187.0  456.0  432.0   29.0   821.0   814.0   816.0  1t40.0
C5tWed te                  0.0   109.0   29.0    29.0   29.0   29.0    29.0    20.0  2 0.0    0.'I    0.0          0.0
VInuMfr MP                 0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0   901.3  1536.2  2111.7
Total  amnt             3016.0  2955.0  47.0  308.0  459.0  4?79.6  $55.8  3143.1   1.4   3050A4  4153J  532.7
MF bpsda                   0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0   76.5   2.7 M     32.2   32.2   215.7
taal fatl  t            306.0  295.0  4127.0  31060  40.0  47s.6  509.8   19.6              .   3442.5  4550.5  554.4
C. Inttat
Offieial CrdIto         51Y7.0  5W6.2  250.2  24.2  22Lt   XL9  175A   158.7  1617.3  15.0  13.0  1971.6
Puttitltelt               0.0     0.0    Z2.5    a.7   UO.S3  1or     53.9   3J.O   370.3   45.9   470.7   ,12.7
of Aidh, t               0.0     0.0    22.5   63.7   120.3   187.6    3.9   315.8   370.3   41.9   470.7   512.7
latal                   517.0  569.2  Z97.7  2344.5  210.8 . 1.S  1541.5  132.9  127.O  1271.2  132.4  1459.0
PHevma Creditor          952.0  124.   9n.7  861.1   831.5   614.6   m.5   75.6   60.1  5$0.9   512.7  439.2
C-walld Lo                 0.0    36.0     7.0     7.0   -6.0    5.0    4.0        4.0     0.0     0.0     0.      0.0
Fbwulnh GP                 0.0     0.0   475.9  811.1  1115.0  1547.3  14.0   31.9  2144.1  260.7  5W7.7  583A
aal inerst              3 O69W0      6  3       47A.4  426.6  4377A   4         40U.2  4751.5  4U1.6  49Z1.5  4910.6
or Carm                    0.0    20.0   54.0  91.5    35.0   135.0   13.0   v 4.0   112.91  85.          50.0    18.7
Toutl Il 11M            3669.0  3697.   4036.8  4167.9  4361.6  4512.6  44.9  4.J5.2  44.4  49.9  49.5  50.5
0. Exterl DMt a
Oficisl Credito        36.0        6 .0 29370 3120 .23.0  Zll1.4   A.0  217.9 257W5  319.0  043.4  M11.6
mAltlla l                 0.    192.0   8.0  1556.LO  23.O  3O.O  41S.  460.3  53.5  6190.6  652.3  711.1
of Aldus IIN             0.0   22.0           B.1556.O  20.0  3110.0  41U5.   453.3  556.5  6190.6  652.3  7311.1
U1latl                 31W.0A 3054.       7.0 25 .0 22.0 19300.4 1679.2  691  17015.0   0.4  19291.1 200.6
Priva  tre              IONLO   911.0    A0  83.0  785.0  755.0   61.0  6131.0  5310.0  4410.0  30.0  2540.0
M"jud   flInwIsu C*   -2173.0  5407.5  97.2 12670.4 17562.7  2590.9  M S.9 V7774.1 2 .1 21190.2 290A  26.6
Toal 000               405.0 457.5 46951.2 48             1.7 5Z0   54153.9 57.1 S7212.6  42.2 5613.2 605.6
Wr credt                   0.0   400.0  10L6O t0 1500.0  100  11500.01500.0  15.5   0S5.6  453.7  261.5   455A
Toutl ml o             "   40      0.5 4051.2 50370 16.7 540.3 55.9 5 .                     A4 59135.9 57.7 6671.3
E. aM  ltin
on of Total t-T         Om
IMa r of Total             0.0     0.6     1.8    3.2      4.6    6.3      7.6     LT      9.7   10.6    11.3   12.1
lb"ao Totl LT OiM lrvios (i) 
11 - of Total              0.0     0.0     0.3    0.9      1.4    2.0    3.5       5.9     7.4     9.1     9.3     9.3
F.   o aCort Patos
1. LmTav Oitmpu              465.1   405    40.8   345.4   30.9   51.4   20.1   114.2    27.A   210.9   15.1   119.7
2. 1r Cradltaort              0.0      63      9.0   10.6    6.9    6O         7.2     5.6     4.2     2.4     0.9    0.1
3.  hort-TuOd      Pr           ..      .       . *             .- *-           .       . *- *                  . *-
4. LT#IW.t OjlApsts          48.1   45.6   409.7   356.0   311.6   39.4   26J7    5L0.0   81.6   213.    195.9   179.A
0.    t                        - 



-66-
Page ll of 13
t                                        t ~~~~~~~~~~~~Etrnal tZpt wd Oda 
1. Lttm OdomP                 61.2    81.?    5.8      74       4.      71.9    7.*    69.1   60.2    66.4    6.5    623
2. INF Credit/                 0.0,    1.1      1.      2.4     L2       2.1     2.0     1A       1.2     0.7     0.3     0.0
3. ShrtTuw'tS                   .-.      '       ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..       ..     ..
4. LT4UU4S 01W/UP              6t21    =A      5.6    79.0    755    73.9    72.4    70.7    u.S    67.1    6.7    6.4
H. 0*ht 1.1cetC (Ous)/Exp
1. L.uTuu04*                   75.3    6.-C    IA      50.5    52.1    40    46.0    34.0    322    2B.5    29.7    50.6
2. orfRp&AwPv ChoI              0.0     0.2     0.S-    0.7      0.8     0.7     0.6     1.3      1.6'    1.7     1.4     0.7
3. Inters aty an S- Odit         ..                                       .. ..- . .. . .. ... ......
4. Total LTN1HF46T)           75.3    04      70.5    51.1    52.9    49.7    46.6    35.4    33.8    30.2    31.2   31.3
t. Itr1t (LT) ma'dI Ratio
1. Total Interest/UP           5.2      6.      6;7     6.4     62       6.0     5.9     5.7      5.7     5.5     5.3     5.1
2. Totat InterestIaets        59.4    MA      31.0    28       2S.2    3.4    21.7    2DJ3    1.9    17.5    16.1    1.8
Nomwdk 1t:
frn     x                           5407.5  s30.7  3W45.1  492.3  4503   4214.9  1446.3  151.9  1367.4  16NA    a8.
Itn t  Ilysd Creu1dgdi             2355       0.0   450.1   55S.3   50.        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Prifepult UIhd (readitled)         27t.0  3D09.7  20.0  435.0  400.7  4214.9  1468.3  1S9.9  13W.   1UN5.   3S1.7
_... .... .. .. . . ,,_..............._.._.__......_.__.....____. .__................... _ ,,__ ,......................_,__.__....................... ..... ....... .. . ...... ... . .....
All debt rfer to cawrtibte cimse   dit.1
Eiwat refer to car_tlbte curutts  dipI of  od ad evic.s
Intrst n   repyments we  di  u rdmiAed dbt refer to &qmId dt service tchi Is aatinlctty trehaeiL
V In 909, Inclit U  1.0 btn ,      n   urwes ud In 15t, USM 0.9 bin of revolving credits.



J
-67-                                 A
I                I                         M      D:  d         _4,Page 12 of 13
~13  191  39E mm 5 1"a   OK  in   "a                  97w  1i  mm
MW      M.  MU  MU     W19 MD          12  22A MM 1 W.9 33.  =$A
b~~M  SMa.    ~WA   54.?  99.8 311.A  1161.I4 15.044.  USA. 1I.1   MA.   MA3.  283
F   =vIm                        13.t  MA   0.0   0I0   3.0 W     1m 0    30 M  . A9  5.9 WV  519  09
dt -   -~    ~                  WA   MA        k  t_A  .1 .0  J   S$D  43 Sl.9  5.9   4.9  1119
o_t 'da&$             '0                  .7 176  1W14 1M35* hUA 33M 510. 2787 31.7  W9
d'ic DCt                         70  MMA  1 115.7U 135*            01                    5014.1 a5t15 1i2L
obf.w swvm                     1023   19A  VA"  1r   11   10   293  MU MU2   MA*1 MIA13
ram swIw                       5.0 30M.  4OL6 4.7  W             .  4M.7 311.0  Sma2   MT, 592  392
of am"
bane                          YAM.0 3U0     OA 4M.?  4S   6.  4tn.7  MA.4392 4M.  43092  WM19*
be fdm 0 S-T                  MA0  71.1 Fo.0  MIn.              .0 64.  40.9 07.3  WA  4'2 5A
rt h'l,"A                    21001a"        0X0   .1  51.3  31*    0.    0*    Le    0O   *O    0X
m Iwh                          00 o    .0  5'0  955  1M0  15.0  ISA  .0   1 12.9  5.3   3LO   IL?
V 6d13                      1152 10.   ttI   W.& MA 2078U J15.7 2W.0  85.2 301.  31.  SMA
tN&Nm                            00 2  0.  1D0.7 121 1144.4 1m.0 o        . ts  A s1v2  01    71 W     1r.5 
I OMwt T,ruwm                    mm 00.   130 1Z5D               IMAO .0   00 M0             0  10 00 1" W.0
2 Gm*  mA=t "m                    M1U2 .33  10.5 .A  S17S 3.9 133  ta.  -1915.1 -10.7 -11. -11
V iAdu KOM                        MA1M.L0  115.1 103 WU  1A?.7            A t21.4NM 21 1   L          323
Pfdumm                           0o  10 1A.0 DO AM  1m0 3WA 15.A Q4  0.0 aiW  M6A 41513
ti*dmu                           311."0 211iSA  422.0        09.0A 471    5WJ. 3145  331.4 30A  413  W.7
PMd               ZD WeD 493.0  48S.0  47i.3  WA   S1X    .9   MA tas 112 18.0  m0 5A
-2M.0 am.0 3.w? a0  a1.0 4.7  'I9  14.  1.9  WiA  105 t               2.
480
tre*                                     SU     LO3M0 ..  '0   3.A 0    MU M   0    00 A .    00 iM.   60C  40.0
oIm1, WI                         -S  190   0A8  1403   MA   0. W                 l0.8 .   43.6  W1   IS4A 1A
,! tot Ams                        -W7  230.0 -214  .5t7 -51. -MA -IW.  11.7  9052   9.3  '1.0  .4.9
c ittti $deng Wa -.     M          4UU _D   O'   .4W.7 -331  -M.?  411.? -L# .-.1  1099 -WA  1t. -14W
D.     i hn iW                      -.A440 300.0  M0  -.  -.  -2.5  -ML0   0.2  -00  -0A  -O100 5.0
S- hnat h r_6
-. f5wbuwfa3                       1597.  5150.7  0.1 6 4912W  QK, 47lM 145.319.9 tAt7 10.6W.
L rO"Mci 0p                    142A  2I D    9.7   .i0  4i 20               115.3  139.9       10.A   t   a2
Irwst 6s            ,                 15*    0.0 0L      54.   31.6   OA    OA 00   0.0   0      0.0   0.0
F. OndW     il                     tS5A*W   ..    .      .      .    .      .      .    . .0.               .
hw in MAl .w         ... . .. . .. ...



-68-                                    ANNEX 
FPage 13 of 13
MM i '       mmna  Debt  btnfot1mo
................................................. ................................................................................................................................... 
Prelt    *............................. . --....PMOcte*- ....................s......--......
1       1990    1991    1          9      1994    1995    194' 1 t197    19ff    1999    2Q0
tntro Psp,ats
ftmn  do adstfre
L-T dEbt                   3W.0  W3.6  344.5   085.9  2MA.  Z6.0  195.S  152M.3  1306.1  109.1   987.2  M81.0
PAnta *3 eno L-T dEbt            0.0     0.0   534.3  10?.5  1U.4  1997.8  2554.4  301.9  345.4  3725  39S.3  413.8
Ptus INS d u                     0.Q    2b.0    54.0    96.5    1.0  1m.0   1O    131.0   112.9    05.3    50.0   ' 18.7
Ptu  fIntatat anl -   t           .. de bt  -                       .                **       *       *        * 
Total Intert                  3169.0   9.6    456.5  4167.9  431.6  4512.8  46.9  455.2  4.4  4926.9  4973.5  501.5
Toutl btes Padd               106.0   761.1  4M.8  3517.8    0.3  40.2  "43.9  4755.2  48.4  4926.9  4973.5  S03.5
Total ntaet  ap
(modold                    2603.0  296.5       0.0   60.1   55A.3   504.6        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Dl       dumnta en xZstfit
L-T dbt                       0.0     0.0      0.0     ..0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Di*-ws!1t an ne L-T dEbt   226.0   70.0  1fi3.0  153.0  1S720  2180.0  2631.4  32.0 '32L0  252.6  303.6  4151.3
Ptau tIP  _uhae                 0.0   600.0   430.0   450.0    -0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    10.0      0.0
Pts nMt .1 capita                 ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..      ..
tal, dliwt0                    X2S.0  130O.0  2ME.0  t9.            0 1            11.4  32.0    60       252.6       3.6  415.3
Arti ttln dke an extstin
dbt                        30.0  2955.0  4227.0  3066.0  4509.0  46.0  467.0  2539.0  2524.0  1015.0  11L0  142.0
m irtluattn do anen debt         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    81.6   35.8  60.1    aA   25A   253   35.7
' rWmd       s                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   '0.0       0.0      0.0   1716.5   277.7   32.2   32.2   215.7
utilatfan W                   259.0  241.0  3609.7        .0  4356.0  4803.7  4214.9  1468.3  1549.9  137.4   3.8    205L.
Autrtltfn paId (* U)           497.0  4M4.0   417.3   265.0   151.0   75.9    14.5  151.3  2W9.2  275.2  2014.7  34540.7
DID (at aid of p.rl)         4857.0 4579f.5 4 .2 4870.4 S16.7 5S6.3 54153.9 5746.1  5M2.6                     .2 59613.2 6525.6
of eAtch:
ODbt Inrred dte  19          0.0  6107.5  11550.2 1536.4 20J.7 2 7.3 357.9 3 8.1  433.6 462.2 483.2 50.6
..........................................................................................................................................
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -



O          --                         -           W     - s
-69               AN   2
IZECZPOSPUAPOLOKA                           weuws, July 02. 1990    t
MII4STZ IINAI46W
Mr.- Barber Conable
President
Tim    l,I Di, .1
wanIngior' t:C. 16tm
usA.
Dear Mr. Conable:
We request a Structural Adjustmt Lon from the World Bank In
the amount of S 300 miilon equivalent In support of our Govemment 
ecnmic transformation program. The maln elements of the program and
specifc policy measure.-slready taken during the past few months or to
be taken In the noer future are spelled out In the attached Memondum
of oevelopment Policy.
It Is our Intention to lmplement the premr  as described, In an
effective manner so as to achieve the resumpn of growth of the Polish
ewonomy, greater efflcency of resourcs allocation, end protecton of the
most vulnerable segments of the population against tho hardships of
adJustment, as well s to progressively restora  Polad  s creditworthinss
over the medium-term.
As the transitlfh from our country's pest ecnomic rime to an
open mrket econmy with greate private sector partiipation Is marked
by an unusually high degree of uncerulnty, the medium-term projections
documented In the annex to the attached meuwrndubA are subject to a
wide nmrgin of error. However. In our view, they reflect a plausible
scenario of a desired developmwt path, with balance -,of - payments
viability tO be achIeved over the mium-term, and we agree tp the pro-
posed murtwlv;'cmnsultatlans, and rovIewi, In close coe-ration alms
with Me IMPr, whii6I .et require adjustments of key polley vartlahb  In
the future.
Whdy5law5 4i                           Lez  8aleorowlca
fl nmnlunt                         BuMi PrWnv Mlnlster
Iblo nul 3inlb nf Pnlanrl      .rot Financ
Attachment



- 70 -
Attachment
Page 1 of 20
Memrandumof DevelMent Polly
I. hBakgrgMd
1.    Following steep economic decline and social unrest, Poland embarked in
1982 on a number of economic reforms aimed at decentralization of decision
making, improvement of the price structure, and greater financial discipltne
of state enterprises. The results were modest owing to the incomplete nature
and weak implementation of the reform program as well as the high debt burden.
A second stage of economic reform launched in late 1987 was accompanied by a
price-incomes adjustment in 1988 to improve relative prices, reduce subsidies,
and bring the economy closer to equilLbrium. This policy led to renewed labor
unrest and set off a wage-prLce spLral, which resulted in inflation risLug to
60 percent in 1988.
2.   During the first three quarters of 1989 economic imbalances widened,
propelled by escalating incomes, rlslng subsidies (particularly for food and
energy), excessive money creation, and inadequate interest rates. Inflation
accelerated to 230 percent between December 1988 and September 1989. At the
same time, shortages intensified as incomes accelerated even faster while
output stagnated, and the external position weakened markedly as reflected in
a sharp increase In the current account deficit and a build-up of arrears.
3.   While macroeconomic management was deficient, a number of systemic
reforms were introduced during that period: New legislation placed the
private and state sectors on an equal footing, removing hiring limits on
private enterprises, and allowing private initiative in practically all areas;
a law on foreign investment abolished limits on foreign capital participation;
a two-tier banking system was created by decentralizing the commercial banking
operations of the National Bank of Poland (NBP) and establishing, in addition,
a number of new commercial banks; relatively unrestricted sales and purchases
of foreign exchange both among enterprises and among individuals were
legalized at freely determined rates; and, on August 1, many Liput and
virtually all output prices in the agricultural sector were freed, and
subsidies were frozen in nominal terms.
4.   The government of Prime Minister Mazowiecki, in office since September
12, 1989, has taken a number of fiscal, monetary, and income policy measures
complemented by accelerated exchange rate depreciation, to arrest a rapidly
deteriorating situation. These measures represented an Loportant shift in
policy and helped to contain the budget deficit to 8.1 percent of GDP and the
current account deficit in the balance of payments to $1.8 bllion equivalent
to 2.6 percent of GDP. But the situation of the economy at the end of 1989
remained weak, with a continued decline ln output and investment and pervasLve
shortages.



- 71 -
Page 2 of 20
II. The Government's Program for 1990
5.   The program for 1990, supported by the IMF through a standby
arrangement, has two central aims: (a) to stablILze the economy, bringing
about a rapid deceleration of inflation and eliminating shortages; and (b) to
accelerate the transformation of the economic system towards market
mechanisms. Economic stabilization is a prerequisite for success in pursuing
systemic changes; and without systemic changes and enhanced supply response,
stabilizatlon will not succeed in restoring output growth, improving living
standards, and strengthening the external position over the medium term. The
program inltiated on January 1. 1990, includes a number of stabilization
measures and a first set of measures of further systemic reform. The main
elements of the program's stabilLzation coumonent are the following:
(i) attaintient of approxlmate flscal balance by the general government
in 1990, mainly through a reduction of the central government deficit to about
1 percent of GDP by way of a drastic cur of subsidles;
tii) significant tightening of credit policy, introduction of interest
rates that over time will be positive in real terms to lnduce a progressive
shift from foreign currency deposits to zloty fLnancial assets, and reduction
of preferential credit with simultaneous elimination of associated financial
cost from the accounts of the banking system;
(iii) unification of the market for foreign exchange for most payments
and transfers for current account transactions. After a sharp devaluatLon,
the exchange rate was fixed to provide a nominal anchor in the fight agalnst
inflation. WLth the abatement of Inflation, the competitiveness of exports
will be maintained through (small) adjustments of the exchange rate; and
(1v) as a complement to the exchange rate policy, and as a second
important anchor, limitation of wage increases to a fraction of price
increases.
6.    The main elements of the program's structural and systemic chawg
cogflfRg & that have already been initiated In parallel with the stabiliation
efforts are the following:
(1) abolition of most of the remaining price controls as of January 1,
1990, except fpr rents, public utility prices, public transportation, coal,
and some foodstuffs equivalent to about 5 percent of sales of consumer goods
and services;
(IL) removal of the limits on the sale and size of private farms and
assurance of equal access of private agriculture to inputs and credit;
(iLL) elimination of the remaining elements of central resource
allocatlon, preferential government procurement, and monopolLes In the
distribution sector; and



- 72 -
Page 3 of 20
(iv) establishment of the Labor Fund in December 1989 to extend
unemployment benefits, as well as improvements in the protection of the
elderly and the poor.
7.    In addition to the miasures sumarized in the preceding paragraph, the
Government has initiated legislation in a nmber of key areas to introduce
profound changes in the business environment to move towards a market-based
system with greater participation of the private sector. Most of these
initiatives have been completed during the first months of 1990 and form the
backbone of the structural reform and systemic transformation program. They
are described in detail in Sections III B-D below.
III. StructurAl  Leorm and SystemL Transfomation Program  /
A.  MedLm-Term MXRoeconomic Policy Fmerk
9uMntItative Aspects and Macroeconomic Monitoring
8.    The macroeconomic framework for 1990 is given by the targets and
projections underlying the Government's stabilization program which has been
supported by a Standby Arrangement with the IMF. Quantitative targets and
performance criteria for the second half of 1990 are soon to be revlsed taking
developments during the first half of this year into account.
9.    The Government recognizes that, in splte of the recent agreement with
the Paris Club and prospective similar agreements with other creditors.
Poland's medium-term balance-of-payments prospects and creditworthiness are
overshadowed by the large debt overhang. The Government has defined a
strategy to deal with the debt problem which would be conducive to achieving a
sustaLnable convertible currency current account positlon by 1994. The
prlnciple is to reduce the debt burdep by a substantial amount to permit
recovery (1991-1993) and sustained growth thereafter. A reductlon of the
Interest burden to an amount equivalent to 2 percent of the stock of old debt
outstanding at the end of 1990 (excluding debt resulting from fresh capital
inflows after the end of 1989) would be necessary to achieve this goal. This
would allow GDP growth and per-capita consumption growth rates at a level
which would permit Poland to catch up to moderate income countries ln Western
Europe in a generation or two. Before release of the second tranche, the
Govornment would report on progress with the implementatLon of the adopted
strategy. In parallel, the Government intends to strengthen FOZZ and enhance
lts primary role In the administration of public debt. In partLcular, the
Goverpment will improve FOZZ's debt accounting and management capacLty and
separate Its activitles ln this respect from its other activLties. Before
release of the second tranche, the Government will inform the World Bank about
progress achieved in this respect. Similarly, lt wlll strengthen the
coordinatLon of external aid flows so as to ensure their most offectlve use.
'/ Suimary overvlew provided in Appendix 1.



73
Page 4 of 20
,The Government has recently charged a speclal inter-ministerial comDittee
chaired by the Deputy Prime Niiister and Sinister of Finance with this task.
10. The Goversn"t also recognizes the need to create an appropriate
macroeconomic enironrmnt over the medium and longpr term within which market
forces can generate adjustment and growth. In order to achieve this end, a
number of policy variables are identified which will have an Important impact
on economic performnce. Uhile it is not possible to specify precise levels
for these variables over the medium-term, the Government recognizes the need
to adjust then from time to time in order to achleve the desired macro-
economic results.
11.  The key policy variables for the Government's macro-ecom ic adjustmont
program are:
1)   Nominal exchange rate
2)   Nominal interest rate
3)    Fiscal deficit, subject to satisfactory level and
structure of expenditures
4)   Net domestic credit and assets
5)   Import tariffs and non-tariff trade restrictions
6)    Price policy, particularly energy and transportation
7)   Nominal wages
Performance and progress under the adjustment program will be evaluated in
terms of a set of outcome variables. These are:
1)    Inflation rate
2)   Gross international reserves
3)   Balance of Payments (current and capital accounts, with
particular emphasis on exports)
4)    Debt indicators
5)   GDP/gross output growth
6)   Gross domestic savings
7)    Fixed investment
8)    Employment and unemployment
Broad ranges for the above variable are presented In Appendix 2.
12.  All of the above variables, both  pollcy and outcome, will be monitored
on a regular basis. To facllitate the process, the Government will share with
the World Bank Information sent to the IMP in reportiag on the Standby
Arrangement (noting that a number of the policy and outcome variables are
directly covered by the Standby Arrangement) and make additlonal information
available.
13.  The desired mdium-term development is broadly deflned by the outcome
variables (see Appendix 2). In case of signlflcant deviations, particularly
shortfalls in growth and employment generation, the Government will consult
the Bank as appropriate wLth a vilv to possible policy aajusteents.



- 74 -
Attacbsenmt
Page 5 of 20
Fisc1alL PoL"
14. As a key element of its stabilization efforts, the Government adopted a
budget for 1990 with a projected deficit of about 1 percent of GDP, the
financing of which would be compatible with the overall macroeconomic
framework, in particular the monetary and balance of payments targets.
Revenues ore projected to increase to about 30 percent of GDP (as compared to
28.6 percent in 1989), inter alia by reducing or eliminating tax exemptions
and other differential tax treatment and, thus, reducing distortions across
sectors and enterprises. The main adjustment is planned on the expenditure
side, uIlnly through a drastic cut of subsidies to about 5 percent of GDP (as
compared to about 12 percent in 1989). The principal remaining direct
subsidies from the budget are for energy (subsidies for coal to producers and
households), housing (including interest rate subsidies, rents, and central
heating/hot water), passenger transportation, holders of government guaranteed
contracts of 1981 for automobile deliveries and interest subsidies to
agriculture.
15. It is the Government's intention to keep the budget deficit in 1991 and
beyond to a level which does not require resorting to inflationary sources of
financLig and does not negatively affect the availability of credit to the
productive sectors, in particular the private enterprise sector. To achieve
this overall fiscal objective, the Government will continue to strengthen its
revenue base by introducing legislation to Parliament concerning a value added
tax and general personal Income tax before the end of 1990 and by further
reducing or eliminating tax exemptions including those provided for
environmental investments (see para. 42). The personal income tax law will
take effect at the begirning of 1991, and the value added tax later that same
year. All tax measures will be designed so as to further reduce distortions
among sectors and enterprLses and eliminate any remaining discrimination
against privately owned firms.
16.     On the expenditure side, the Government intends to (i) continue to
reduce subsidies, and (ii) to increase the share of spending for social
programs. The Government will freeze subsidies to mines and liberalize
doamstic coal grlgs by July 1, 1990. The price liberalization is being
facilitated by the dismantling of the Coal Board and the development of a
competitlve domestic market for coal. Starting in 1991, the Government will
phase out subsidies and reduce the export tax on coal with the objective of
eliminating both by the end of 1992. This should bring domestic coal prices
to the world level.  crocan of oaher forms of energy (including district heat,
lignite, natural gas, fuel oils, gas-oil and electricity) to lndustrial
consumrs will be adjusted by December 31, 1991 to bring them into the sae
relationship with domestic coal prices as Is typically observed In the West
European morkot economies. Prices of energy (including district heat, natural
gas, gas-oil and electricity) to household consumers will be adjusted by
December 31, 1990 to a level at least equal to 50 percent of prlces paid by
Industrial users. By *nd of 1991, thes prices will be brought Into parlty
with prices paid by IndusttLal users.   Throughout the period 1991-92 and



-75-                              e_
Page 6 of 20
thereafter, prices of energy inputs to industrial users will be adjusted ln
line wlth changing coal prLces so as to maintain the relatlve price structure
obsorved ln market economies.  lasgenseg  anrtation tarlffa  (both railway
and buses) were raLsed by 100 percent on June 1, 1990. BRAl feigbht rates
were raised by 25 percent. During the remaindor of 1990 and beyond,
effLciency of thi railway company will be increased at least In line with the
targets agreed with the World Bank under the Transport Project. Moreover, all
appropriate measures, Including tariff adjustments, will be taken so as to
further reduce subsldies and to achieve at least the ratios of operating
expenses and operating revenues also agreed with the World lank under the
Transport Project. With regard to housing subsidies (on operation and
maintenance, rents, contral heating and hot water and interest payments), some
reductions are planned durLig the remainder of 1990. An action plan for the
progressive reduction of housiLg subsldies on all accounts will be adopted, in
consultation wlth the World Sank, before rolease of the second tranehe. With
regard to *edicfat  ., the Government intends to make the access across social
groups more equitable through better targeting.
17.     With regard to unerwlg=gnt and traiing benefit paymts, there is
great uncertainty as to the likely levels of unemployment during 1990 and in
the medium-term future. The Government will allocate additlonal resources to
the Labor Fund as needed, wlthln prudent overall spending limits and possible
resort to external loans on favorable terms or grants. Higher unemployment
benefits payments vill not be at the expense of other soclal expendltures (see
para. 61).
I8.     The Government recognizes that investment In baslc infrastructure at
the national, regional, and local levels li crucial for the development over
the medium and longer term. While In 1990, overall allocations for
investments financed through the central government budget had to be reduced
to the equivalent of about 2 percent of GDP by stopping and reprograming
projects of lower priorLty, provision for more adequate levels of investment
in relatlon to GDP will be made beglnning In 1991, through central and local
government budget as well as prlvate sources. The Government will make the
necessary institutLonal arrangements to improve the plannlng of budgetary
expenditures within an appropriate macroeconomic frmevork and limit on the
overall budget deficit. In partlcular, it will undertake to improve the
preparation, evaluation, and priorltizatlon of Infrastructure investment
projects. It will also diacuss the draft 1991 budget with the World lank
durlng its preparation and prlor to release of the second tranche of the SAL.
Trade R-ege
19.     Wlth the reforms Introduced at the beginning of 1990 for convertLble
currency trade, the Government cowpletod the transltion from a mnaged trade
regime based on a large proportion of centrally allocated foreign exchange, a
set of haphazard explieit and implicLt trade taxes and subsidies, and a
remaining state trade monopoly, to a transparent market-based system uhich
will Litroduce import competition nd world prLce slgnals into the domestLc
oconomy. The Governrent li committed to maintaLn thli open trade regime and



-76-
Page 7 of 20
an appropriate exchange rate so as to ensure the Intern#i.onal competitiveness
of tradeables. The new, open trade regime represents L eosential complement
to the price liberalization also undertaken at the beginning of 1990 and will
provide the competitive pressure to combat monopolistic structures in the
goods producing sectors. At the sa_ time, this wore neutral trade regime is
a prerequisite for officient enterpriso restructuring and for the effective
promotion of new firms and activities.
20.     An important aspect of the reform has been the almost complete
eldimnation of quantitative restrictions, both direct and indirect through the
foreign exchange allocation system. While no quantitative restrictions
currently exist on imports paid in convertible currency, the Customs Law of
December 28, 1989, in line with general GATT practice, allows the introduction
of ad-valorem or qpecific quotas if deemed necessary. In light of the
distortlve effects of import quotas, the "Gternment is comlitted to avoid
quantitatlve restrletions to the extent possible. The Government would inform
the World Bank before adopting such measures.
21.     Licensing of practically all traded products has been eliminated.
Some licensing requirements remain for imports such as arms and radioactive
materials. On the export side, licensing continues for a number of products
for three reasons: (i) to ensure adequate domestic supply of products such as
hard coal, coke and electrlcity which are still under domestic price controls;
(ii) to prevent windfall profits from the re-export of some item imported
under CKE arrangements whose prLces are distorted due to the difference in
the cross rates between the dollar, transferable ruble and zloty; and (iii) to
observe voluntary export restraints for products which are under quota in
partner markets. The Government is committed to the progressive elilmnation
of these remaining restrictions as domestic price controls will be phased out
(see para. 16), the C4EA system is reformed, and our trading partners
eliminate restrictions on imports which affect trade with Poland.
22.     Given the openLng of the trade regime and the de-monopolization of
the trading system, the tariff regime has become the binding constraint to the
equalization of domestLc prices with border prices. Average (unweightei)
tariffs for manufactured goods are around 12 percent, with lower tariffs on
inputs and capital goods than on flnal goods and, thus, varying reel effectlve
protection across activities. The Government is committed to undertakiig a
tariff reform with the objective of stimulating economic efficiency by
lowering effective protection. The dispersion of tariffs will be reduced by
raising low and lowerlng high tariffs. As a first step, the Government has
completed a study of the tarlff regime with the assistance of the World Bank.
Based on the results of the study, the Government will develop by the end of
1990 an action program for further tariff reform over the medium-term to
reduce distortions and promote efficiency. The Covernment would inform the
World bank before adopting tariff changes.  Moreover, the Government is
couuitted to the curtailment of ad-hoc interventions through tariff adjustment
on Lidlvidual products, varyIng turnover taxes, and surcharges such as those
currently existing on cars, alcohol, and cigarettes. In parallel, and over
the medlum-tem, the Gzvernment also Intends to further open the current



- 77 -
Page 8 of 20
account of the balance of payments by further liboralizing transfors of
dividends.
23.     The Government is currently working, together with its partners in
the CHEA, on reform initiativos which are compatible with its domestic
economic reforms and intends to introduce greater flexibility into CKEH trade
relatlons.
B. &2terise Restructurin. Privatlz&tin. nd Pit  er Develonmnt
24.     The Governmont is firmly comitted to a rapld transition to a market
economy, in order to increase efficiency and competitiveness and enhance
economic growth. A critical element in the transition procoss is the reform
of the large state-owned enterprise sector with its 7000 units, accounting for
70 percent of economic activity. The Government intends to ako major changes
in the ownership structure of the Polish economy through a program of
privatizing enterprises in the present state-owned sector, creating an
environment encouraging the formation of new private companies,and improving
performance in enterprises that will remain state-owned. The Parliament has
already accepted changes -- in the Bankruptcy Law, the Comercial Code, the
Law on State EnterpiLses and the Law on Economic Activity -- alesd at
liberalizing the regulatory environment and/or imposing more strict
performance standards on state-owned enterprises. Government has devised and
will shortly submit to Parliament amendments to the Civil Code, the Civil
Procedure Code, the Law on Land Management and Real Estate Expropriation as
well as the Housing Law. The amendments aim at the reduction of legal and
regulatory obbtacles to private sector activity. The changes adopted by
Parliament in December 1989 in the Law on FinanciAl Management of State-Owned
Enterprises and in tax legislation have created a hard budget constraint" for
state-owned enterprises. Parliament enacted in March 1990 an amendment to the
Law on State Enterprises empowering Government to intervene directly in poorly
performing enterprises to restore them to productive heallh. Government has
taken initial steps towards the development of a capital market. The
Government has issued bcnds, starting in the fall of 1989, and certain
enterprises issued bonds at an earlier date. Additional steps are being
prepared (see para. 44). Procedures to restructure, along commercial lines,
enterprises in financial difficulties, as well as special diagnostie and
financial institutions to carry out restructuring, are being established. The
Government also launched an intensive program of do-monopolization through the
enactment of the Law Counteracting Monopolistic Practices in February 1990, af
well as a series of administrative measures aimed at general deregulation and
the enhancement of competitive forces.
25.     The Government regards privatization of state enterprises as a key
step in the transition to a warket economy and an important stimulus for
overall economic growth. The general framework for privatization as laid down
in the draft Lav on the Privatization of State-Ownd Enterprises comprises
several stage.: the identification and evaluation of enterprises to be
privatized; the transforoation of a state-owned enterprise Into a joint-stock
company, with shares being hela by the Treasury; restructuring of ente.prisos



- 78 -
Page 9 of 20
if necessary; and actual sale of shares. The tranformation into a joint.
stock company prepares the ground for the sale of an enterprise' s capital
while at the same time clarifying ownership. Restructuring is optional but
likely to be needed in a large number of ceas. Potential investors comprise
four groups: employees of enterprises to be privatizod; other private Polish
citizens; Polish Institutional investors; and foreign investors. Employees
will have preferential access for up to 20 percent of shares, wlth the price
preference limited to one year's salary. While the private placement of
shares ls not excluded, unlimited subscription or auctioning of shares is
preferred. Currently, a first group of ten enterprises for privatization is
under preparation. In addLtion to the privatizrAi4n of large enterprises
following the above procedures. the Government has been privatizing *sll
enterprises through direct sales in large numbers.
The Government's overall objective is to shift resources from
uneconomic to productive actlvities. To this end, it is the Government's firm
intentlon to privatize the majority of enterprises as rapidly as is consistent
with the conclusion of transparent and benefLcial transactions. Howover, the
Government also recognizes that the process of sale will take time, and that
the achlevements of the economy In the medium term will depend on the economic
and fLnancial performance oi enterprises that will remain in public hands for
years to come. Therefore, Govermnent is increasing the autonomy of state
enterprises which will from now on be regulated mainly by competitlve market
forces. Government will further withdraw from administrative and political
Interventions in enterprises, and at the same time apply more strict self-
financing requirements. Government is now emandAing an adequate financial
return from state enterprises, and is enforclng a dividend payment policy
(based on revalued asset). State enterprises experiencing difficulties, as
evidenced by the running of losses or the failure to make dividend payments,
will be subjected to assessment, and, if suitable, rehabilitation/
restructuring ln order to provide them with the organizational, technological
and financial structures requlred for productive and efficient performance.
The "Recovery Commission" (established by _andment to the Law on State
Enterprises) that supervises this process will call on diagnostic consultants
to determine whether the enterprise should be restructured, sold or
liquLdated. Depending on the course of action proposed, the plan would be
submitted to comercial banks and/or the specialized restructuring funding
agencies (see para. 28) the privatization office, or the liquidation
authorities. Following amendments to the Bankruptcy Law, enterprises are now
subject to normal, commercial bankruptcy procedures. Enterprises deemed non-
viable will be liquidated.
27.     The shlft towards more productive activlties will be facillitated by
the Initiation of new and the implementatLon of amended legislatlon that will
permit and encourage at least three forms of ownership change in enterprises
presently owned by the state: full privatization, the participation of
external equity (including foreign capital), and the transformation of an
enterprise into a single-owner company held by the State Treasury. The
legislation referred to is the amended Law on State Enterprises, the Law on



- 79 -
Page 10 of 20
the Prlvatization of State-Owned Enterprisos, and the proposed Law on the
State Treasury.
28.     Government's approaches to restructuring are either voluntary, in
which the Initiative comes from the enterprise; or 'defensive,* in which case
the Initiative comes through the state, and is triggered by an enterprLs.'s
making losses, or failing to pay the dividend. Th. Government will create two
special diagnostic/financing institutLons to deal with enterprise
restructuring issues: an agency for industrial restructuring of the Ministry
of Industry, and a bank for the restructuring of the economy. The agency for
lndustrial restructuring will have a wide-ranging set of responsibllities with
regard to organizing and coordinating national restructurlng policy,
diagnosing the causes of deficlent operations in .vterprises, organizing
assistance for foreign lnvestors and training, as well as ln funding
restructuring proposals. The bank will be more strictly limited to financLng
the costs of structural changes, and in some cases will take an equity
position, in enterprises that are dlstressed, yet possess the potential for
recovery to a sound and competitive position. Both bodies will operate on the
principal of clearly separating the tasks of preparing ax restructuring plan
from making the decision on whether to fund that restr.cturing plan.   The
Government recognLzes the unprecedented and experimuntal nature of the
restructurlng program confronting it, and has aousciously decided to launch
partlally competLng efforts wlth a view to determlning after a time the
optimal course of action. Throughout, the Government will continue efforts to
secure foreign fLnancial and technical assistance (including foreign experts)
in order to support the restructuring effort. None of the above rrecludes
enterprLses from initiating restructurlng efforts themselves, lf they have the
capaclty to engage consultants and find private or commerclal fundlng for
theLr restructuring proposals, without resort to Government flnancing.
29.     In um, Government's policy ls to enhance effictency ln the
enterprlse sector whlle maLntaining reasonable standards of equity. The
approaches relied on are several:
-       small industriLs. and commerclal enterprises will be sold or leased
without prior transformation in a dlrect and timely manner;
-       larger prlvatizations requiring prior transformatlon will be
handled by an agency/ministry for ownership changes In accordance
with the draft legislatlon;
-       non-viable enterprises without prospect of reform will be
identified and liquldated;
-       distressed but seemingly vfable enterprises will be assessed
and, where the investment is clearly justLfied, restructured
partly with the support of an agency for industrial restructurlng and
the bank for the restructurlng of the economy. Thls process will
lead either to thelr sale, their transformation Lato a sLngle-owner
company held by the State Treasury; or thelr transformation and



-80-
Attacbhn
Page 11 of 20
incorporation into the portfolio of an institutional investor. The
possibility that some enterprises might be returned to their prior,
non-transformed status, is not excluded.
Given the prevailing uncertainty about best solutions, the Government intends
to let these various approaches compete for a time; and then evaluate by tho
end of 1991 which approaches should be supported, amended or discarded.
30.     To ensure that privatizations proceed in an equitable And transparent
wmanner, sales will be made where posslble on the basis of public offeringp,
and no total takeover of a firm by its existing work force will be allowed,
unless it occurs by way of public offering, or by other methods ensuring
adequate valuation.
31.     The Government has already launched the restructuring process.  Some
twenty companies in need of restructuring for improved performance have been
selected for a pilot program of analysis and reform. Lessons learned in this
pilot exercise will guide further restructuring on a larger scale.
32.     The Government recognizes the prevalent lack of umg=tition in the
enterprise sector and is concerned about the highly concentrated nature of
industrial and commercial activities.  The framework for establlshing a
compotltive economy is glven by the Government's commitment to free trade as
well as subsidy reduction and tax reform (see paras. 15 and 16). The change
in the trade and'exchange regime on January 1, 1990, contributed to an opening
of the economy and intensification of international competition in the goods
produceng sectors. Similarly, the marked reduction of subsidies made
conditions among industries and enterprises more even.
33.     The Government will further foster competition by pursuing its
continuing program of demonopolization. In particular, a new Law on
Counteracting Monopolistic Practices was enacted in February 1990, and the
Government establish3  an independent Antl-Monopoly Office in April 1990
reporting directly to the Council of Ministers. Moreover, the Government
strengthened, through legislation and other acts, the power to actively pursue
industrial de-concentration (where this is appropriate) and to take action
against behavior and practices which effectively restrict competition.
34.     A wotk program for the new Anti-Monopoly Office has been established
with priority in trade, food economy, transportation and other services. An
appropriate organizational structure and required levels of staff bas also
been ascertained.  The agency has been granted a budget commensurate to the
need to fulfill its sandate and work program.
35.     It is expected that the Ministry of Internal Itarket and the Anti-
Monopoly Office will initially concentrate upon demonopolizing wholesale and
Fetail trade, particularly consumer goods distrLbution. In parallel, the
Ministry of Ag:iculture and Food Economy, together with the Anti-Monopoly
Office, will focus on the deionopolization of the trade and distributi.mn
arrangements in the agricultural and agricultural processing sectors.



- 81 -'
Pago 12 of 20
Establishing condLtions in the transport industry, particularly road haulage,
is also a hiLgh prLority, with appropriate imvolvement of the Ministry of
Transport and Maritime Economy. Initial action has already been taken ln the
meat, sugar, mining, and transportation industries.  The Anti-Monopoly Office
will coordinate the preparation of qpecifL  rogam  of Action ln these areas
with preclse uooitorable steps and timetibles to enhance competition. These
programs of action will be developed by July 1990. The programs will be
shared wLth the World Bank, and implementation will be reviewed before the
release of the second tranche.
36.     In view of the mutual lnfluences of privatizatlon and enterprise
restructuring activitles upon competitlon in the economy, the AntL-Monopoly
Offlce has a mandatory right to be consulted on decislons in these areas.
37.     The Government bas also embarked on a far-reachlng program of grivat
sector, devlogV=nt. The strategy is two-pronged: (i) privatization of a
number of existing state-owned enterprlses, and (li) encouragement of new
private entrants by providing a posltlve business environment. On the basis
of the provisions of the draft Law on the Privatization of State Owned
Enterprises, the Government is selecting enterprises to be the flrst
candidates for sale. The Government intends to carry out the process in a
carefully deslgned and transparent manner to provlde a  demonstratLon effect"
to facllitate sales on a larger scale. In the next two years, the Government
intends to brLng more enterprises to the market for sale, accounting for at
least 10 percent of sales of the state sector in 1989. A more direct and
rapld process for the privatLzation of small shops and businesses is under
way.
38.     A portlon of the necessary leglslatlve base for unleashing the
potential of the private sector was laid in 1988-89, as a large number of
probibitions were elimliated and discriminatory regulations repealed,
Lncluding all restrlctlons on size of operations, sectors, and specific
activitles.  This has already generated an encouraglng supply response as
several thousand new private limited liabillty firms were created ln the
course of 1989. However, more is needed. The Government will further
facllitate and promote prlvate sector imestment, including attractLon of
dlrect forelgn livestment, the provisLon of LnstLtutLonal and infrastructural
support, removal of remaining legal, regulatory, and tax barriers, technlcal
assistance to qualified domestic candldates, and access to credlt. Speclfic
actions will be developed during the course of 1990. Success in this field is
closely linked to improvements in the banklng and credit sector (see sectlon
C, para. 46).
39.     To ensure that the process of enterprise restructuring and
prlvatization will take place on an environmentally sound basis, the
Government has initiated a process of reviewitg and revisLng the current
system of laws and regulations affecting environmental management. On
March 1, 1990, air emisslon standards for 80S, NO0, and partLculates were
introduced for 11 fuel combustion processes. After a review of the practice
ln RC countrLes, a simtlar set of standards for liquid effluents will be



- 82 -
Page 13 of 20
adopted and TIplemented by the end of 1990. These standards represent miDiOum
national standards which will bo strictly enforced. In the future, stricter
emission and effluent standards muy be adopted at a regional or local level,
once the appropriate environmental institutions are in place, and the costs
and benefits of alternative iDasaion and effXuant levels to meet national
ambient standards can be appraised.
40.     As a prerequisite for sueessful enforcement of the new standards,
the Government is reviewing the existing system of fees and fines and intends
to have in place, by the end of 1990, a revised system of economic instruments
based on relevant OECD experience. Under such a system, economically
efficient environmental policy measures would be introduced at all
administrative levels, allowing environmental objectives to be achieved in a
least-cost manner. The Government expects to draw on the expertise to be
provided under the World Bank supported Environment Management Project, and
intends to discuss the policy-measures which require major legislative changes
with the World Bank prior to submission to Parliament.
41.     In parallel, the Government is now designing a program for a legally
enforceable process of negotiations for phased implementation of revised
emission/effluent standards for existing enterprises. This requires first a
careful analysis of the costs and benefits of alternative emission/effluent
e      levels on a regional scale, taking into account proposals for industrial
restructuring and/or privatization, as well as the health andiwelfare of the
affected populations. The program will require refinements and adjustments as
better information on local environmental conditions becomes available, and as
the economic aspects of the industrial restructuring process are better
understood. In order to meet ambient onvironmntat standards as a by-product
of such restructuring, we expect to have to make judicious choices between
new-process and end-of-pipe technologies. After a transitional period of
seven years, differential treatment of existing" and new  sources of
pollution will be phased out, so that new, potentially more efficient,
enterprises are not placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to existing
enterprises. The Government, through its Ministry of Industry and Ministry of
Environment Protection, Natural Resources, and Forestry, intends to maintain a
dialogue with the World Bank on these issues, in the context of several
ongoing and planned projects.
42.     Finally, as part of the process of creating a simple, transparent,
and efficient tax system (see para. 15), the Government inteods to elinate
tax holidays for environmental investments. Although such tax breaks have not
been widely used in Poland in their current version, they do promote a
wasteful use of resources by encouraging end-of-pipe environmental control
,technologies, even if these represent less efficient solutions. The Kinistry
of Environment Protection, Natural Resources, and Forestry will review the
effectiveness of this instrument by the end of 1990 and will propose a
solution.



- 83 -
Page 14 of 20
C. Unaial vctor Reforms
43.     The Government recognizes that a well functioning and broadly-based
financil sector, with an effective banking system at its core, is essential
to support the structural adjustment effort. To that effect, the Goverrment
has initiated a far-reaching program to transform the financial system based
on three principal elements: (i) efficient monetary and credit policies; (ii)
the strengthening of the banking system; and (iII) the deepening of the
financial system through the development of financial markets and non-banking
financial institutions.
44.      Mnetary and Credit Policies.  In the context of the stabilization
program initiated on January 1, 1990, credit has been tightened and interest
rates adjusted. Preferential interest rates have been reduced while the
remaining associated financial costs have been assumed by the budget. Further
reductions of interest subsidies are planned, and credits financed from
external sources wll be onlent to final borrowers at interest rates generally
prevailing in the financial system. As part of the improvement of monetary
policy, the National Bank of Poland (NBP) has conducted.since March 1990
regular auctions of NBP bills and introduced other indirect means of monetary
management such as rediscounting of commercial bills of exchange since April
1990. In the longer term, the NBP would conduct the bulk of its money market
operations through bill dealings, with direct lending to the banks taking a
less important role.
45.     StrenMthening of the Eanking Svstem.  The development of a more
autonomous and efficient banking system was initiated in 1987 with the gradual
establishment of a two-tier system whereby the NBP retained only typical
central banking activities, while transferring other former banking activities
to a savings bank, PR0 Savings, and to a network of nine commercial banks.
New banking legislation was introduced in January 1989, paving the way for a
universal banking system where private investment, and foreign participation
would be encouraged.
46.     At this stage, the actions envisaged for the immediate future
encompass (i) a further revision of the legislative framework; (Li) the
modernization of the NBP; (iii) the introduction of improved accounting and
auditing standards; (iv) the undertaking of external audits for banks; (v)
selected initiatives to address a number of financing needs in real sectors;
and (vi) the development of nation-wide training programs for bankers and
accountants.
47.     Legal Framework. The operation of an efficient and autonomous
banking system cannot take place in the absence of a supportive legal and
regulatory environment. To that effect, the Government has initiated an
extensive revision of the laws and regulations governing the activities of
banks in Poland, starting with the enactment of the new banking law and of the
Act defining the functions of the National Bank of Polsnd, both! promulgated in
January 1989. While these laws are felt to be generally capable of supporting
the development of the banking system in the nev economic environment, there



- 84 -
Page 15 of 20
is still scope for further improvements, and amendments are being introduced
from time to time as required.
48.     At the moment, a number of regulations are under active review,
including regulations for bank licens;ing (domestic and foreign), with a view
to ensuring full transparency, prudential regulations for banking, and
regulatlons to address bank insolvency.
49.     Concerning the legal structure of state banks, it is the Government's
opinion that an optimal level of autonomy and business efficiency can be
achieved by transformation of such banks into joint-stock companies as
provided under Article 86 of the amendments of December 28. 1989, to the
Banking Law and the Act on the NBP.
50.     With regard to the surrounding commercial environment, the Government
is currently reviewing the law of security, so that adequate collateral. can
be made available to banks, and that preferential dispositions regarding non-
possessory liens be extended to all banks. This modernization of the
comercial law framework will entail a clarification of issues pertaining to
the ownership of land and other property rights, including mortgages. In
addition, loan recovery procedures will be strengthened, in particular As it
relates to the rights of banks in case of borrowers' insolvency.
51.     Modernization of NAP. With the assistance of the IMF, the World
Bank, and a number of foreign Central Banks, the NBP has initiated an
ambitious modernization program to strengthen its operations, particularly as
regards monetary and credit anagement, the payment system, and banking
upervision. With regard to the improvement in the payment system,
initiatives have already been taken, relating inter alia to the establishment
of a clearing house and to the development of an electronic interbank clearing
and settlement system during 1991. As regards bank supervision, the proposed
approach for the development of off-site and on-site capabilities within the
NBP includes, as a first priorlty, the preparation of a detailed accounting
plan which should be available in final fore by November 30, 1990, and thu
banks would be expected to begin to implement this new accounting plan by
January 1, 1991, before second tranche release. Regular consultations will be
held between the NBP, the Ministry of Finance, and the Association of Polish
Accountants to ensure the compatibility of this accountlng plan with the
general accounting (and auditing) standards for all economic activities
currently prepared by the Ministry of Finance for enforcement starting on
January 1, 1991, before second tranche release. These improved accounting and
auditing standards are being prepared, inter alla, to harmonize Polish
practices with those of EC countries, while avoiding to the extent possible
major disruptions for the Polish enterprises.
52.     Srcahein& of existinig b aka.  In establishing a second-tier
system of banks out of the National Bank of Poland, the Government's objectlve
was to set the stage for the development of a network of commercial banks
which, while likely to remain under public control for some time, would
operate rapidly as aus        and accountable institutions for efficient



-85-
Page 16 of 20
lntormediation between depositors and borrowers. At this stage, while
substantial changes have already occurred In the behavior of the newly
established banks, the Government recognizes that the prompt initiation of a
broad program of actions is needed, Including (i) the introduction of lproved
management and accounting systems and operating procedures, to be supported by
modernized technologies; (ii) the introduction of progrms for strongthening
staff skills; and (itI) the financial restructuring of the banks, which vLIi
involve the provision of adequate capital. In a first phase, full audlts will
be conducted to provlde a bLasi for instltutional strengthening. Such audlts
have already been initiated for the Export Development Bank. Bank Handlowy,
Bank Pokao S.A., and the Bank for Food Economy during May and June 1990.
Comprohensive diagnostlc studies will be undertaken for the nlne commercial
banks by the end of July 1990 and shortly thereafter for PKO Savings and other
banks. Thls should lead to the development of institution-speeific edLum-
term business programs for a number of these banks.
53.     Reforms ln the fLnaneLng of some actLvltLes previously undertaken
through the centralized allocatlon process wvi1 requlre speclfle attention.
and may substantially affect some existlng banks. These actLvltLes Lnclude
housing flnance, agrlculture, and the central investments. The development of
.related schemes ln these three areas, currently under preparation, wi1l entail
profound changes in the operatlons of PRO Savings, BFE and the cooperative
banklng system, and the Bank for National Economy. Moreover, the Ministry of
FLnance has declded to establish a new bank, the bank for restructuring of the
economy, whlch would support enterprise restructurlng projects through loans
and equlty participation (see para. 28). The livolvement of a foreign partner
is actively pursued. WhlIe the Government would thus support speclfic
targeted schemes and Instltutlons for a perlod of time to accompany the
transitLonal process towards a market economy, thls would be done on a
commerclal basls and lts long-term objectives are to encourag a rapid move
towards unlversal banklng and to enhance competltlon in the bankLng system.
54.     As regards Improved systems and procedures for banks, a first step
will be the introductlon of revlsed accountlng procedures, to be LnitLated by
November 1990 on the basLi of the now accountlng plan developed by NBP with
the asslstance of Banque de France. The development of such procodures for
banks w411 requLre substantial addltional external asslitance. The provlidon
of such expertLse will be provLded under a variety of arrangements, ranging
from consultLng arrangements to undertake speclfic tasks, to broader and
closer arrangements with forelgn banks.
55.     As an important step to be undertaken prlor to fLuancial
restructurlng, state banks need to be transformed into joLit-stock companies.
The December 1989 amendment to the Banking Law sets the stage for such
trigusformation; a number of which could occur dur*ng 1990. The Government
will also adopt by July 1990 a poliey as regards Central Investments, spelling
out the Government's obligatlons towards banks currently holdlng those
portfolios, the Government's Iplicy as regards future financLig of uch
investments, and the proposed modalLties for removing, lf warranted. these
investments from the banks' portfollos.



- 86 -
Page 17 of 20
56.     The developmnt of humn skIlls will include both in-house ad
external trainting program. In this context and as regrds the training of
bankers, a banklrs Institute will start to operate in Katowice in September
1990, to act as a primary center for tradning. In addition, banking ad
fLnanco courses will be Introduced in a nmber of high-schools. As regards
the enhancement of the accounting profession Ln Poland, progrms hav  also
been initiated which will include the adoption of aodern accounting and
auditing standards for all economic activtie s, enforceable by Jnary 1991,
the strengthening of irondepoe nt professional bodies around the Asociatlon of
Polish Accountants, and the introduction by September 1990, of nation-wide
training program  for accountants and auditors.
D. Sacial Safety Egg Cgg gnant
57*     The Government recognizes that the transition to a market economy
involves resolution of a number of social issues which will be crucial to the
success of the transformation process and long-term growth and prosperity.
These include: ioprovLag the functioning of the labor market; the finaneing
and administratlon of a system of unemployment benefits and socLal welfare for
those most adversely affected by the economic reform; upgrading training and
retraining for the unemployed, and providLng new skills needed to support new
investments; and restructuring of the health system to arrest the decline in
health serviceas. hereas not all these issues nan be addressed systematically
in the short-term, the Governmont has taken major steps to develop  VjMMt
asmLmc., construct a social safety net, and make training available to the
unemployed. In addition, the Government has doclded to initlate a serles of
policy studies which will support a restructuring of the healtb ca_ myaM* .
58.     WLth regard to      m                                       , three
new laws have alredy been passed in December, 1989. The balnt Law
establishes a system of unemployment and tranling beneflts and provides funds
for training and retraining, as well as credits to enterprises for job
creation, and to indLvlduals to start new busiLesses. Health care entitlement
will also be extended to the uneaployed. These actlvLties will be financed
from the Government already ostablished the L&bgQr  iud in December 1989 whose
revenue will derive ln part from Central Government transfers, and ln part
from a 2 percent payroll tax. The Law gn Wan L aoffs establishso redundancy
procedures and a formula for severance pay. A mjor purpose of the law is to
incroase labor mobility during rostructurlig. The Law an Taato  of Vage
Increases of JLgal Persons empowers the Government to control the relatlon
between wage lncreases and the rate of inla1tion. In January, enterprise wage
bills were indexed by 30 percent of the rate of inflation, and, begoinning in
May, the indezatLon cooffLienat was established at 60 percent of the rate of
inflation.
59.     In implementing thls legislation, a major concern is to safeguard the
pensionors, unemployed, and low-Licome earners against undue hardship during
the stabilization and adjustmnt process. Since the beginning of 1990, the
government has begun to sot the minuLm pensLon at a levol equivalent to 35



- 87 -
.~~~~~uat
Page 18 of 20
percent of the average monthly wage projected for the corresponding quarter.
The projections take actual wage development into account. The Law on
Enterprise Remuneration Systems has been amended to,apply the adjustment
system for the minimum pension to the minium unemployment benefit and the
lowest wage. Thus, minimum pension, minimum unemployment benefit, and lowest
wage would all be adjusted in the sam  manner.  Before the end of 1990 [prlor
to second tranche release), the Government will conduct a thorough review of
the capacity of the benefits system to protect the unemployed and pensioners
from poverty, in conjunction with the efforts to improve targeting and
budgeting of social welfa;.e.
60.     To avoid wag; Lnflation, legislation has been passed by whiLch the
lowest wage will no longer be the mandstory base for entry positions nor for
calculating other elements of compensation. This would pave the way for
greater wage differentiation ln llne with productivity growth and lndividual
performance, after achievement of stabilisation.
61.     In order to ensure reallstlc budgetary provlsion for unemployment and
training beneflts, the monitoring of unemployment wlll be Improved to ensure
that timely informatlon is avaLlable. Specifically, the Conttal Statlstlcal
Office (GUS) wlll, by the end of 1990, include relevant questions about
employment and unemployment ln lts quarterly household surveys. The Labor
Fun& benefits for unemployment and training will be reviewed quarterly in the
Ilght of current and projected levels of unemployment. The budgets for
educatlon, health, and socLal velfare will be protected, to the extent
possible, against eroslon lf the level of unemployment turns out to be higher
than anticLpated.
62.     There will also be regular revlews of the level and quallty of
staffing of Employment Offices, whlch wlll have a crucial role ln assistLng
the unemployed to flnd work, arranging trainLag and retraining, allocatlng
funds for job creation, assessing and paying unemployment beneflt, and keeping
statListLes on the unemployed and the use of the Labor Fund. For the purposes
of providing unemployment benefits, the offices will be adequately staffed.
The tasks asslgned to the placement offlces are complex, and detaLled
speclficatlons of their tasks, together wlth budgetary estimates for
establishing the offlces are being prepared. In additlon, the staff of the
Employment Offices will require extenslve training, to which end the
Government wlll seek external technical assistance.
63.     In order to provlde social safety to lndividuals and familLes living
In particularly difflcult condltions which cannot be overcome with thelr own
means, the Government wlll Introduce to the Parliament a B11 on social
welfare by second tranche release amending the system of allowances in cash,
bonefits In kind, and of services provided by institutions of social welfare
and financed through budgetary resources. The Government will take actions
mad allocate means in order to secure universal aceessiblilty to such benefits
like permanent and temporary allowances in cash, nursing services, admission
to social welfare houses, and other social welfare servlces. Executive



- 88 -
Attacbmont
Page 19 of 20
regulations are to be drafted speclfying prLnclples and procedures of grantLg
social welfare services.
64.     The Government does not have, at present, complete data required for
full determLuation of soclal welfare needs and for a ratlonal allocatLon of
resources from the central budget. Therefore by second tranche reloase an
Informatlon system will be et up to defLne the slze of the populitLon living
in poverty, to evaluate the efficLency of the social welfare system, and to
provLde a database of the beneficiaries. Moreover, the Government is lncllned
to apply for external assistance to inltLate and lmplement trainlng programs
for soclal welfare staff, and particularly for soclal workers. As soon as the
overall economic sltuatlon of the country lmproves, the Government Litends to
increass the amounts and scope of social benefLts fLnanced out of the budget.
65.     The Government also recognlzes that the hfalth syte  fails to meet
the mLnimum needs of the population. Key lndlcators of health status such as
Ilfe expectancy, crude and standardized mortality rates, and the proportion of
low birth-weight newborns have deterlorated slnce the 1970s. Illness already
poses a financlal threat to many indlviduals and families. The program of
economic stabllizatlon and adjustment may temporarily aggravate thls
situatLon.
66.     In February 1990, after wide ranging national consultations with the
participatLon of foreign experts, the Minister of Health and Social Welfare
proposed the strategic dimenslons of a new health policy. These lnclude
commitments to: (i) promote good health and prevent Illness; (11) diversify
the sources of financing for the health care sector, so as to dimlnLsh the
current reliance on the state budget, wille ensuring a stable and sufficient
flow of flnancial resources; and (ill) increase efficiency in the provision of
health care.
67.     WLth respect to promoting good health and preventing illness, the
Government intends, by the beginning of 1991. to define polLcies arising out
of studies on: (i) an outreach program to combat the harmful effects of hlgh
consumptlon of alcohol, tobacco, and unhealthy foods; (ii) a school-feeding
program which will prevent the harmful effects of malnutrltion among chlldren;
and (ill) higher lndustrlal work environment standards to prevent occupation-
related diseases.
68.     The Government has also decided to conduct during 1990 an intensive
study of health flnance, not least because changes in the financing mechanisms
could have important economlc and soclal consequences far beyond the health
sector. The options to be studied lnclude: (i) a compulsory health insurance
levy flnanced by contributions from employers and employees for the purpose of
flnancing the range of standard health services specified in insurance
agreements; (iL) supplemental voluntary health insurance; (LLL) strategic
financial lncentives, for example through co-payments for some serviees, full
cost-recovery for others, and higher indirect taxation of harmful products,
such as tobacco and alcohol; and (iv) a thorough assessaent of expenditure on
health care outside the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MHSW).



- 89 -
PM* 20 of 20
69.     With repect to improved perfornace in the provision of health cars,
the Govement Intends during 1990 to couplote a detailed review of, and be
redy to  oplemnt policies on: (i) adequate fundin  for medical drus and
supplies for 1990; (ii) decentralization, taking Into account the on-going
local governmont reforms; (Ill) cost-control measures, especially in the case
of pharmceutical products and the introduction of higb toehnology; (iv)
financial incentives to raise productivity of doctors, nurses and othor health
professionals; (iv) modern management techniques for improving efficiency,
effectiveness and productivity; (v) means to achieve equitable and officlent
resource allocation (financial, physlcal and human), including affordable
access to a limited drug formulary; and (vi) lnvestments neoded to
rehabilitato physical infrastructure and to improve quality through education
and training.
70.     To ensure adequate coordination, the Ministry of Health and Soclal
Welfare has established a Commission for Health Reform, and appointed working
groups that will carry out specific aspects of these studies, which will be
adequately funded.



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      m       ii amfn
1idt1s of moditomtm pese.tw          -O      wabmsj   mesooclo *mhint pmvfupeelw  St
Pl-             '~~to ftontu oLy = .qse  y.*lsU mi 1*beeliuattn                                   .rnsgsede saisrnmt M0i
,i   . fi                                                    of 1*/Oat   1O       01Gabon  ftime"   la Uto with
IbyX_ - lanf _d on .          is - a _       tfoe ctieator
d--  A mm_   at UP Amei  to
MitoSt                vae"M psbe.1eb
XSpest    e61N 06 s.  U*
the WUM .fterwAIatxuteea
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    - 4mee*t _oa Mi
""Anna" ;;tw  ft the
I_teleMe    S fmeaco_l sesto*,
UOm    1sa,   Obi ab
""On"set  up"""ez  efteet PC""
insteaMt belle aId
-Itot"4t mg ez.bu" cameplc             - Ihicej se4Jnu   soft Irni tomtMi      -  xihttimni. of~iin2 
a f    es"Xte  el*dZtleai                 at." eam  at"*"e =aat  (to a** 
prosem                         elEty toetemueto attaastoe Mi
teeaee .fftt  us." .1m toee.see
an06aa tatalust teOs tomca"
/'                                                                                                        *f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otbsoo  ttat.mif  D  odpmna
(M.1 wefomed as matzal bush.             uist    M  wmtua  eltivatas
mi dlwesutltrof t  of                    of oftt 8*61410  fe aeo
sMulel Ice  enftolo to Lade-                S.es(a* Eu4w
PieIOW  OVANte  b8*t).                                  t Px     omf
Ioua:    Indicates cc.iItt6 fsw second u&Aich zimeae.



;- ) - - i ; '; - - ~~~  91 
lii :                I I               " 'Iii
:~~~IIii ii Jflf fe 12f Mad l
~~-                                    Ijt
! '~~               ' 1111
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C .
ill~~~~~~~~~~
I'                         'I''
,1                    I
!



~~mo~~~~ o~~~~qm~~~~.                                I~("MO% vzv) qu3ad" P.o*wum1
0-om  RITO1 $wUns*mm0 wat  VPCAm woP pOD U V1@a po*uwmu 
vma'aaonu*"z.q e.14 momp
viqvvmw W?u.11 To-S*om                                  ;aZ (SlOIT3. U)                            *alOiz Uu3t
*mw~~~~~s pimipi. us;                      .        '4 ~~~~~~~%W    '2011
-- ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    g-
~.z5 3 W?S?p00PaA=f    -    -%                                                                          -d
no  i                            -                                                                                - -tw4m
seqW& asain*p1ui*Wro*'.~
%"*AM4IIIIIIIISVI    .OV , 1111
vosoftevo *4 %-ddno 4uow"""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                           4
.-fP so.-Tim"qb~A  PAO-1
4        4 ~~~~~~S
0-nulba.~oa                       4                   J-
s.~ o. *0 ms.gs =xS-
-4  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                          .                     Ii~"ix   nia   a               4'



.~~~~~~~ ~9 -
,  ~I              a'.s!P t~ 41  il- !II4h   I
1   .d .11 ..I .  ..                  ..
I~~~~~~~~~~
~~~l  ,.
l~ ii@~i~i
I..
1   ,   ,            'I
a~~~~~~~~~~~ J
1~~~~~~



IOMMO St own" mm=
ot limbo no*" =A                                 Liw: Lm m           Aftblft of Od00640 SOMM
bapent, md Z*vtsw et 1
41 mw.ploym"                   Loom; libm P"  (Wsg)
49
zg;w77
Uo
CMMUdetio of Amoor*WNd Mob
bft*titA. IMMI1111114011114 Oli*. 04
otboc               bumd an
ad
tst-tvi"
b"ItA Mt,= -                   fttabUiOAMt t CandosiM tw 604ft         ftftottAm ot WV buU& ppUW W
]PK ----JL-"*a "M   st"Wiss "Om/        itvvuw *t outiv" attm " tAm am
ot MKO                   4" ad""M a v, ZOVI%W
POUU"
tu



.    .    .           ~    ~   ~~.  .   C               --         J Q
I _~ j  -,                                 -95
AugpAniz 2
...   .    .9~~~~~~~~A~&i~
Pogo 1 of 2
(1) Inflation rate - les  tPan 2X per mouth by 4th quarter M90;
19t: lots than 25S pa. (D1c99c.); 1992-93: lose than 15X
p. a. to be deterptned in consultation vith l1(.).
(2) Gross International reserves - 1990 and beyond. at least
oquivalent to 3 months of Imports of goo.s and sorvLces (to be
-   -            determined In consultation with IN ').
(3) Balance of Payments (cutrant and capital accounits), with
I particular emphasl! oan export growth (mainly convertible
currency exporti), convertiblo currency exports Increasing
rapidly enh to genArati a sustainable current a4count'balance
--on the order of 1990: $1 billion;1 1991-1993: on the order of
4000-Aillion, after, taking debt red'uction into account. Export
--growth 1990 - 1993, includLng CUEA converted to convertible
currency exports, by 18-20% per;year on average In real term.
(4) Debt indicators not to exceed:       -       ,
(in percent)
' /I                  23-26    20-23    17-20
Debt/GDP              .78-80    72-7A   64-66
(5) GDP or--grss output growtb- -Target for GDP: j56X pOr year
durini 1991-93. As quarterly indicators, socialisied sector
-.",--, =  '   production figures (actually recorded a6 t   Eon sold) will
be used.
(6) Gross donestic savings (0DS)  Mequato to finAnce needed
investment without excessive foreign financiug.
''                '              ~~~~~~~~~~19,91  1 993'                          ,
(in percent),
GDS/GDP                          27-30
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_~~                                               I
-/4urrent account balance for 199p reri cs Febtuary 1990
Paris Club Agreement.



-96-
1.~~~~~~~~Aoi 2
Pago 2 of 2
(7) Fixed izwstmntel - eAdaat. to genetate S  GDP growth.
-~~~~epco  -iiu   11ms:
(in perent)
I/GDP                  20-22     23-26    24-26    24-27      1
(8)  Emploent ad unemployment - (no specific targets but close
emitoring).
.Aicy vriables a re.
(1)   Nominal exchange rate - to be determined, In consideration of
DIF progrms;
(2)    ominal interest rate,- to be determined, in consideration of
XIV programs;
(3)   Fiscal deficit  mubje- to satisfactory level and structure of
expeanditures - to be determined, In considerstion -cf -IMF
programs;
(4)   Not domestic credit and assets - to be deterGMned,  n 
consideration of   P prograsV ;
(5)   import tariffs and non-tariff trAed restrictions - no increase
1k overall level of protection;
(6)    Price policy, particularly energy end transportation - continbed
pwogress towards mszket-based pricing;
(7)   Nominal ages - to be determined in consideration of I3P
program
I/To the extent possible, private sector development would be singled
out.



.-97-
Page 1 of 2
ISuoneM entary Progect Data Sheet
Timetable of lea Evonts
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                   8 months
(b)  Responsibility for project preparation           Goverament/BIak/IMF
(c)  First Bank mission                               December 1989
(d)  Appraisal mission departure                      February 1990
(e)  Negotiations                                    June 1990
(f)   Planned date of effecetiveness                 August 1990
Section 11:             Spacial Bank Imol1mentation Actions
-Eon.
(a)  Conditions of Effectiveness Ian  Release of First Tranche (fLQ0.0
Nons
(b)   Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (S200.0 million)
Satisfactory macroeconomic performance based on broad target
ranges for indicators attached to the Government's memorandum of
Development Policy;
Agreement on draft 1991 central government budget within adequate
medium-term fiscal and macroeconomic framework, including
subsidies/pricing, social policies, and central government
investment. Adoption of action plan for phase-out of housing
subsidies;
Establisbment -of Agency for Ownership Changes and Agency for
Industrial Restructuring and adoption of guidelines for
divestiture/privatization and restructuring;
Adoption of action programs for further demonopolixation of high
priority sectors such as food economy, transportation, and trade;.



98-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Page 2 of 2
Adoption of adequate prudential regulations and implementation of
bank supervision and adoption of modern accounting and auditing
standards;
Completion of external audits of thirteen financial
institutions and adoption of action plass for medium-term
development and restructuring of nine commercial banks, bssed on
diagnostic studies;
Satisfactory implementati6n of unemployment benefits. Review of
minimum benefits with respect to poverty line;
Introduction of bill to Parliamnut consolidating existing
arrangements for income-tested cash benefits, institutional care,
and other benefits in kind. Development of information system to
monitor payments/recipients.



99 -
a ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ -                -   MflEX4- 
S  'geof I
PTAIU  OF NWl mmP OPETISNS IN POM=
j . ............... ......................... .. ,,.... _
A. WtATNT 9F uSK LOW  1I
(as of aM 30. 1990)
-.sgvt in USS oiions
LO       Flcat (.sLa cs elttians)
VD.         er          Borrowr                   PawPOe                    Bank   Utibursd
...~ ~ ~ .....*...-..                                                .. . ..-.
3166       I990  Nil senkof Polad          Wd. Ep. Profon                   260.00     249.90
.W         1990  NaIt Buac of Polwd       Agroind. Exp. Prtion              100.00      90.08
3190 2/   1990  Rtp*aie of Poltd          [mliroont Nugwent                  1800       18.00
--- 31ff 2/-2  90  Repubtc of Poltw          Traport      -8.00                            8.00
3194, 2/   1990  PotS) Railwy Corp.-   Truupwt                              145.00     145.00
SbftotM 3/                                                531.00     S;0.98
of wicui repid 4/                                         0.00
-     Totatut n  outstrinr                   ~-51 .00
Atount Sold                                                 0.0=  -  -
-Mit -mmSetd by Dan 4/                                    s53.00
Total wdfabsd        5- St0.98
era-
B. STATENEMT0IIFC IRElo ynET                                                  -
(as of a s    990) .   -''
Fdscal                                                               Low   Equsty     T7ata
Towr                   obigoer            Type of    n.sinOies -            ......
_ -       -   -                        ,.__s.  .            .      _ ._.          -----*.--- UM  ittla-.
1989    -        Hcrto Norticulture                                 16.40               16.40
1990             Ept Ct. Butk             Export credit                                 29.20
TOTAL  Original Gross CamStinIts                   45.60    0.00      4S.60
LESS   Cmlttitns, Repsamnt & Sales                  -      -
PWS    uhileW Adjus"nt                              O.50               0.50
TWTAL  Crmitf ts nu held by IFC                     6 .10    0.00     46.10
TOTAL  UnddlAursed                                 39.40              39.40 
11 Th stetus of projects listed in Part A is deaibed lh a seprate report an alt BDW/A
flmed projects lm execution, which is wjkted twie yearly and circulated to the
Executive Olrectors an Aprit 30th and October 31st.
! Not yet effective.
3/ Exiodes a ton of S20 miUdllS for          Resouce Oevetqxant Project,  proved by the
Exective Directors on Jue 3, 1990 and sied an Juty 2, 1990.
Also excludes a toan by IFC-of about T8.45 miltlon equivalent for the Bristol Hotet Project
dtha  we apr   by h Exective Directors an tNay 10, 1990 bat fs not yet silgned.
4/ Prior to exoadwe adjustmnts.
Fit-s m\polaqad.a&
July t0, 199'                              
.1. 



IBID207
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                     W
4.4. Mi-k
Ta                                                                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mali  MCI$o)daf
a.   MojovP  T"
9   OROadOpR
rOB  --                                                                         - --   *    P101100(WQf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6daIwo)Copftoh~~alm
C,  t. MA.~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM
'~~~~2  )            N ~~U.S.S.R.
~fEMN~P  0  L  A  ND
,   ,                                   o~~A5~~41frD
16                          A       K   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    A                                At~~O   EAA       zch""
ITALY
SACZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ UU



