Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8648
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1841-TUN)
MAY 18, 1990
Infrastructure Operatinns Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonmnace of
their officiid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wtbout World Bank authrizton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar
EXCHANGE RATE
Appraisal Year Average        US$1  =      TD 0.40
Intervening Year Average      US$1         TD 0.78
Completion Year Average       US$1  -      TD 0.82
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPCT         Cellule de Planification et Coordination des
Transports (Transport Planning and Coordination Unit)
CSM          Commission Superieure des Marches (National Tender
Board)
DGPC         Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees (Highway
Department)
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
HDM          Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
MEH          Ministere de 1'Equipement et de l'Habitat (Ministry
of Public Works)
MT           Ministere des Transports (Ministry of Transportation)
PERL         Public Enterprise Reform Loan
VOCs         Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



voa omius omx
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Olfce of Oct4*-Cwwal
tOpinwtns EVAltian
May 18, 1990
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tunisia Fourth Highway
Project (Loan 1841-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1841-TUN)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authovition.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAM 1841-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa8e No.
Preface   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .
Basic Data Sheet  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ii
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       iv
I. Background: The Transport Sector  . . . . . . .        1
II. Project Preparation and Appraisal . . . . . . .        2
III. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
IV. Economic Revaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
V. Institutional Development . . . . . . . . . . .        7
VI. Impact on the External Environment  . . . . . .        8
VII. Bank, Borrower, and Consultant Performance  . .        8
VIII. Findings and Lessons  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
APPENDI
1. Introduction .                    .                       1
2.    The Road Network  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
3.    The Fourth Highway Project  . . . . . . . . . .        3
4.    Project Execution . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
5. Procurement. 
6.    Project Cost and Disbursements  . . . . . . . .    21
7.    Evaluation of the Fourth Highway Project  . . .       23
8.    Economic Evaluation of Improved Maintenance .         26
9.    Institution Building and  Strengthening of
Operations  . .28
10. Conclusion   .                  .29
ANNEXES
1.   Payments and Commitments
2    Project Cost
3.   Execution Dates:  Civil WorKs
4.   Execution Dates:  Equipment
5.   Execution Dates:  Studies
6.   Costs:  Works
7.   Costs:  Equipment
8.   Costs:  Studies and Training
9.   Highway Maintenance Trends
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial dut;cs. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank suthoriuation.



Table of Contents (continued)
10.   Budget:  Article 60
11.   Traffic
12.   Vehicle Operating Costs
13.   Costs of Maintenance Operations
14.   Vehicle Operating Cost Differences
15.   Costs:  Rehabilitation Project
16.   Investment Increases Resulting from
the Fourth Highway Project
17.   Rate of Return, by Section
18.   Benefits:  Rehabilitation
19.   Benefits:  Improvements in Highway Maintenance
20.   Sensitivity Analysis:  Improved Maintenance
21.   Network Condition
22.   Disbursement Charts
ATTACHMENT
1. Coments from the Cofinancier
MAP
IBRD 14732Rl - Tunisia: The Rehabilitation Program



1 i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
_ (LOAN 1841-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report of the Fourth Highway
Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 1841-TUN in the amount of US$36.5
million was signed on May 22, 1980. The loan was closed on September
30, 1987, three years behind schedule.   The last disbursement took
place on July 21, 1988, when the outstanding balance of US$3.6 million
was cancelled.
The main text of the report was prepared by the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Country Department II, Infrastructure
Operations Division.   It is based on information derived from the
files of the EMENA Information Center, and supervision and completion
missions.   The Appendix and Annexes were prepared by the Tunisian
Highway Department of the Ministry of Public Works. The main text is
intended   to   complement   the   Borrower's   comprehensive   ex-post
evaluation. It, therefore, focuses on broader issues since specifics
are dealt with in the Appendix and Annexes.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED).  The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers for
comments and they are attached to the Report as Attachment I.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1841-TUN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal
Expectation       Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)               92.1           68.4
Underrun                                     --              351
Loan (US$ million)
Disbursed                                    36.5           32.9
Cancelled                                     --             3.6
Repaid to June 1989                           --            13.6
Date Physical Components Completed           09/30/83       08/30/88
Proportion Completion by Above Date            50X            100l
Proportion of Time Overrun                      --            130X
Economic Rate of Return                        80X             70Xt
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
ma8Z  F8   F        F   FY86  F8 mY88  FY89
Estimated                8.2  22.5  34.0  36.5  36.5  36.5  34.0  32.9
Actual                    0.0   4.3  11.0  12.9  21.1  26.3  31.3  32.9
Actual/Estimated (1)      01   191   32%   351 581  721       921 1001
Other Project Data
Qriginal    Revision     Actual
First Mention in Files            --             08/23/77
Negotiations                   03/31/80          03/31/80
Board Approval                 04/22/80          05/13/80
Loan Agreement Date            05/22/80          05/22/80
Effectiveness Date             08/21/80          11/21/80
Closing Date                   09/30/84    09/30/85 09/30/87
09/30/86
Completion Date                05/84       09/86    07/88
09/87
Borrower                       Republic of Tunisia
Executing Agencies             Highway Department (Ministry of Public Works)
and Ministry of Transportation
Follow-on Project Name         Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project



- i  -
WISSION DATA
Stage of        Month       No. of      go. of DaYS       Spetializetion   Performace        mature of
Project Cve e     Lewr                    f s n fietd       Reresnted  1J RationL        2     Probt er  31
Identification    10/78         2              4           EC, HE
Preparation       06/79         3              4            EC, HE
Appraisal         09/79          3            24            EC, HE, HE
Supervision       06/80         4              7            EC, HE, NE, TR      1
Supervision       02/81         3              6            EC, HE              I
Supervision       05/81         2              3            EC, HE              1
Supervision       11/81         3              4            EC, HE, 0A          1
Supervision       01/82          1             1            HE                  I
Supervision       05/82         2              2            EC, HE              1
Supervision       09/82         3              2            EC, HE              I
Supervision       09/82         3              2            HE, TR              I
Supervision       02/83         2              3            EC, HE              2              F
Supervision       05/83         3              3            EC, HE              2              F
Supervision       04/84         3              3            EC, HE              2              F, M
Supervision       09/84         2              3            EC, HE              2              F,M
Supervision       03/85         2              3            EC, HE              2               F, M
Supervision       03/85         2              3            EC, HE              2               F, 1
Supervision       10/85         3              3            EC, HE, DOC         2               F, M
Supervision       05/86          1             1            TR                  2              F, M
Supervision       07/86         2              3            EC, HF              2              F, M
Supervision       02/87          1             1            DDC                 2              F, '
Supervision       09/87          1             3            EC                  2              F,M
Supervision       09/88          1             1            DC                  2              F,M
Coppletlon        01/88          1             I            OA                  2
Completfon        04/88          1             1            HE
Completion        10/88         3              1            EC, HE
Total Number of days in the field a 93
1     DC   Division Chief; DDC - Deputy Division Chief; EC - Economist; HE - Highway Engineer; 4E -
Mechanical Engineer; OA - Operations Analyst; TR - Traitiing Specialist
2     1 - Problem - free or moderate problems; 2 - Moderate problems
3     F - Financial; M - Managerial
STAFF INPUT
(in stoff Weeks)
FY79   FY80  FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   TOTAL
Preapprafsat      36.2   8.7                                                                            44.9
Appraisal         35.6                                                                                   35.6
Negociatfon              8.7                                                                              8.7
Loan Processing    0.1   8.0                                                                             8.1
Supervision              3.3    11.8   5.9    8.4    7.3    17.7  6.4    6.8  2.5        0.5            70.6
PCR                                                                                      2.7    0.9       3.6
Other                             0.2                 0.3      5.1  0.4    0.7                            6.7
TOTAL             71.9  28.7   12.0   5.9   8.4       7.6    22.8  6.8    7.5  2.5       3.2      0.9  178.2



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1841-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Backaround
1.       The socio-economic setting against which the project was identified
and prepared is discussed in pares. 3-16 of the April 18, 1980 President's
Report (PR, Report No. P-2778-TUN). Paras. 2.01-2.33 of the April 18, 1980
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 2810-TUN) describe the status and
prospects of the highway subsector in the early 1980s. The salient feature
was that whereas the density of the network was generally adequate, rapid
traffic growth over the previous decade and a decline of total expenditures in
real terms reduced many roads to below standard conditions for the traffic
they carried. Narrow pavement widths resulted in high transport and road
maintenance costs and contributed to a poor safety record of many roads.
Hence, road rehabilitation and upgrading of the safety program emerged as
priority activities.
2.       When the project was appraised in September 1979, the Bank was
familiar with constraints on project implementation in Tunisia. Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPAMs) on the Second Port Project (OED Report No.
1049 of January 8, 1976), on the El Borma Gab6s Gas Pipeiine Project (OED
Report No. 1078 of February 26, 1976), on the First Railway Project (OED
Report No. 2109 of February 13, 1978), and on the First Highway Project (OED
Report No. 2772 of May 24, 1979) discuss in detail reasons for cost overruns,
time overruns, and partial achievement of project objectives.
Objectives
3.       The overall objectives of the project were to improve highway network
management and to achieve a balanced development of highway infrastructure
(SAR, para. 3.02). Specific instruments for the achievement of these
objectives were to:
(a) meet the urgent backlog of road rehabilitation, estimated to be
around 1,700 km (SAR, para. 3.09), of which the project would
finance about 50%;
(b) exRand road maintenance activities and improve the efficiency of
the maintenance organiz-tion; physical targets were established
(SAR, paras. 2.24, 3.04 and Annex V), and improvements in
performance are discussed (Appendix, para. 4.6);



(c)  strenathen the institutional framework through the introduction
of imDroved nlanning techniques. information systems, and staff
training; this was accomplished to a satisfactory extent (PCR,
para 5.02);
(d)  raise grogressively the recurrent budget for maintenance to an
adeguate level; the SAR (para. 3.04) recognized that this was a
long-term effort, partially met (Appendix para. 4.6), but
adjustments are still needed in financing mechanisms (PCR, para
1.04); and
(e) support a program of traffic management and road safety;
serious delays have led to the program's being partially
implemented under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects (para.
3.09).
Implementation Experience
4.       Experience with the implementation of the different components
constituting the appraised project (SAR, para. 3.03) was as follows:
(a)  a three-year time slice (1981-83) of a six-year program for
improving highway maintenance. including the purchase of hi&hway
maintenance equipment. The highway maintenance program began on
schedule in September 1981 but by 1984, implementation of civil
works had slowed down because of: (i) budgetary constraints;
(ii) decentralization of highway maintenance, which had begun in
1982; and (iii) an ongoing analysis of needs, benefits, and
budgetary requirements. Procurement of highway maintenance
equipment experienced relatively minor delays and difficulties.
All in all, physical targets were attained (Appendix, para.
4.6);
(b)  a three-year slice of a six-year grogram of road rehabi'jitation.
Some 780 km of road sections out of the 800 km originally
planned were rehabilitated. Works consisted mainly of road
strengthening or widening, and the rehabilitation of shoulders
and drainage on the country's oldest and most highly trafficked
links. Civil works were completed more than four years behind
schedule mainly due to the inadequate provision of counterpart
funds;
(c)  training for highwav deRartment staff. including refresher
courses in Tunisia and overseas. Human resources development
was hampered by an ill-defined organizational structure for the
training function and inadequate budgetary allocations. It
focussed on specific areas of technical competence to the
exclusion of overall staffing and training needs of the Highway
Department;



- vi -
(d) grovision of laboratory test equipment. traffic counters. and
traffic aiPnS. Laboratory test equipment and traffic counters
were delivered as planned. Procurement of traffic signs
experienced delays and partial cancellation of contracts due to
the depreciation of the dinar and import license procedures; and
(e) technical assistance for groject monitorinf and evaluation. for
overall highway investment planning. and for preparation of
annual work programs and a future rural roads proiect. The
Highway Master Plan was completed in June 1981. It was based on
an examination of the existing network structure in light of the
needs arising from long-term transport demand and regional
planning programs. The Transport Planning and Coordination Unit
was established in December 1983, about two years behind
schedule. It became fully operational by 1985 and has since
then provided a valuable contribution to the strengthening of
overall planning, coordination, and monitoring functions within
the Ministry of Transportation. It was instrumental in
initiating sector reform and the preparation of a deta base on
road and rail transport. The Highway Maintenance Study,
completed in March 1985, provided a good assessment of the
condition of the paved network.
esults
5.       The estimated project cost was US$92.1 million, with about
US$45.5.million representing foreign costs (SAR, para. 3.16 and Table 3.1).
The actual project cost was US$68.4 million (Appendix, para. 6.1). Comparison
of the two figures has little meaning because of the massive changes in the US
dollar exchange rate, which was between DT 0.499 at appraisal, reached DT
0.890 in March 1985, and stabilized at about DT 0.820 in 1988. Project
completion, originally scheduled for May 1984, took place in July 1988. Time
overruns were due to lack of counterpart funds resulting from cost increases
and the large unspent dollar balance created by the increased exchange rate.
The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) was 80X (SAR, para. 4.09), the re-
estimated ERR 701 (Appendix, para. 8.6; and Annex, Table 17). Institutional
strengthening showed encouraging results (Appendix, para. 9).
Sus,tainabilim t
6.       The increasing maturity of the principal Executing Agency, the
Highway Department, demonstrated by its thorough evaluation of project results
in the Appendix, is the best indication that, subject to timely and sufficient
allocation of funds in the future, the sustainability of benefits generated by
the project is assured.
PLndings And Lessons
7.       Project experience illustrates the benefits from Bank-Borrower
collaboration over a series of lending operations: institut'ons have been
strengthened, planning and information techniques improved, and future work
prepared taking into account stumbling blocks encountered in the past.



- vii -
8.       The project shows that comparisons of estimated and actual cost
figures have to be thoughtfully interpreted. For the rehabilitation
component, actual costs did exceed those at appraisal but the proportional
increase was comparable to the proportional increase in project benefits.
9.       The principal difficulty during project execution arose from
shortages in counterpart funds. Increases in the US dollar exchange rate
demanded corresponding increases in local budget appropriations, which were
difficult to obtain. Clearly, this issue deserves careful attention not only
in the case of Tunisia but in many other Borrowing countries.
10.      A particularly rewarding aspect has been the steady strengthening of
institutions, already noted in the PPAM of the Second Highway Project.
Tunisian officials have consistently demonstrated their ability to adopt
planning and management techniques imported through technical assistance and
to make the necessary adjustments to ensure that foreign methods and solutions
are appropriate for Tunisian requirements.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1841-TUN)
I. BACKGROUND: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.01     In 1979, when the project was appraised, the transport system
comprised some 17,000 km of classified roads, 1,700 km of standard- and
narrow-gauge railways, five major commercial ports, one national shipping
company, four airports handling international traffic, and two airlines. Road
transport was the principal mode used for both domestic and passenger
transport and its share of total demand had been steadily increasing over the
years. Roads carried about 90% of passenger traffic and 85% of freight,
exclud4.ng minerals.
1.02     Since 1979, combined road and rail traffic has increased by about 8%
p.a. for both freight and passengers with a continued shift from railways to
road transport. About two-thirds of rail freight traffic consisted of
phosphates. The share of main-line rail passenger traffic has declined from
37% to 13%. The relatively small size of the country and the concentration of
economic activity in the Northeast contributed to declines in both freight and
passenger traffic; the fact that there were few long hauls curtailed
opportunities for profitable railway traffic. Nevertheless, the Sixth Plan
(1982-1986) allocated he.vy investments of dubious economic justification for
the expansion and upgrading of the railway network. Total investments and
operational subsidies, which compensated for artificially low pasbcnger
tariffs as well as administrative and maintenance inefficiencies, grew to
about US$100 million equivalent by 1986. Subsidies were needed to enable
railway passenger services to compete with road passenger services. Except
for the transport of minerals and other long-haul freight, road transport
clearly had a comparative advantage. The discrepancy between the decreasing
role of the railways in the transport sector and the increasing financial
resources needed to run it, at a time when public investments needed to be
reduced, was brought to the Governmeavts attention in a Transport Sector
Memorandum (Green Cover, July 1985). The Government concurred with the Bank's
position, but did not change its policy. The Bank together with the Transport
Planning and Coordination Unit (CPCT) of the Ministry of Transport (MT)
undertook a brief study analyzing the railway investment program, which the
Government followed in preparing the Seventh Plan (1987-91). This analysis
was expanded into more comprehensive review of the railways, the results of
which were used and updated in a comprehensive Bank public expenditure
review1/ and the Transport Sector Strategy (Green Cover, August 1988).
1.03     The transport sector is presently faced with rising budgetary demands
as well as evidence of inefficiencies and incompatibility of objectives. The
railway component of the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL), approved in
July 1989, is expected to reduce the budgetary demands of the national railway
company (SNCFT) for investment purposes as well as improve its cash generating
t Tunisia: AdaRting Public Exvenditures to Changing Resource
Availability, January 1987.



- 2 -
capacity. As a result of Bank initiatives and discussion, the Government
increased its awareness of the short-, medium-, and long-term costs of
uneconomic transport infrastructure investments. Its new transport sector
policy, aimed at rationalizing domestic transport, contains the following key
elements: (a) transport pricing that reflects long-term marginal costs in an
increasingly competitive environment; (b) improvement of cost-accounting
practices and introduction of economically sound principles to calculate
compensation for (social) services provided below cost; and (c) gradual
Government withdrawal from the provision of road freight services and the
promotion of road/rail competition. The national freight transport company
has been restructured as a competitive operation and offered for sale to the
private sector.
1.04     MT is responsible for the coordination of all modes of transport, the
improvement of transport regulations and tariffs, the overall development of
the transport sector, and the planning of rail, port, and airport
infrastructure. The Highway Department (DGPC) in the Ministry of Public Works
(MEH) underwent decentralization in 1982. As a result, each of the country's
23 governorates has a regional MEH directorate with a highway department
responsible for maintenance, own-account construction, and equipment
management and maintenance. Highway subsector financing is included under
separate capital and recurrent expenditure budgets. Road users contribute to
Government revenues through various taxes and fees such as annual vehicle
registration fees, taxes on fuels, lubricants, and tires, and import duties on
vehicles and spare parts. The total revenue from road users generally covers
total capital and recurrent expenditures. However, there are indications that
heavy vehicles may be undercharged.  This s'-.ation has been analyzed in the
context of a broader study2/, which took Tunisia as its case study. MT
through CPCT is in the process of updating the findings of the study and
expects to implement recommended schemes for road-user charges and related
taxation measures with Bank financing under a forthcoming Transport Sector
Loan.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Sector Obiectives and Bank Stratefy
2.01     The main objectives for the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) for the
transport sector were to: (a) improve the existing infrastructure, especially
through modernization and rehabilitation works; (b) promote rural development
by improving feeder roads; (c) increase Tunisia's share of international
traffic; and (d) reorganize regional transport companies. The Bank supported
national objectives in the transport sector with particular emphasis on: (a)
assistance in the modernization, rehabilitation, and maintenance of existing
infrastructure; (b) further improvement of rural roads; and (c) continued
strengthening of transport institutions, including improved investment
planning. A Fourth Highway Project would address the road maintenance problem
while a Fifth Highway Project would provide further assistance in improving
2   Road Transport Taxation in Developing Countries.  David M. Newbery
Gordon A. Hughes, William D.O. Patterson, and Esra Bennathan; the
World Bank, 1988.



rural roads. A Third Port Project would assist the Government in the
modernization of berth facilities at the main ports of La Goulette and Sfax
and in providing support facilities for improved port operations.
Project Obiectives
2.02     The overall objectives of the project were to improve the management
of the Tunisian highway network and achieve a balanced development of the
highway infrastructure. Specifically, the project was designed to:
(a)  meet the urgent backlog of road rehabilitation;
(b)  expand road maintenance activities and improve the efficiency of
the maintenance organization;
(c)  strengthen the institutional framework through the introduction
of improved planning techniques, information systems, and staff
training;
(d)  progressively raise the recurrent budget for maintenance to an
adequate level; and
(e)  support a program of traffic management and road safety.
Proiect DescriDtion
2.03     The project initially consisted of:
(a)  a three-year slice (1981-84) of a longer-term program for
improving highway maintenance, including the purchase of highway
maintenance equipment;
(b)  three-year slice (1981-84) of a longer-term program of road
rehabilitation;
(c)  training of DGPC staff through in-country and overseas refresher
courses;
(d)  provision of laboratory test equipment, traffic counters, and
traffic signs; and
(e)  technical assistance to DGPC for:
(i)    the establishment of an Organization and Methods Unit for
project monitoring and evaluation, preparation of annual
work programs, and traffic, road inventory, and accident
data processing;
(ii)   preparation of studies for highway investment and
maintenance planning, including a Highway Kaster Plan;
(iii)  preparation of economic studies and detailed engineering
for the second- and third-year rehabilitation programs;
and



(iv)   preparation of detailed engineering for about 1,000 km of
rural roads in anticipation of the Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 2108-TUN).
Project Costs and Financing
2.04     The project was appraised at a total cost of US$145.5 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$71.5 million. At that time, the
Government was intent on implementing the targeted 1,300 km of road
rehabilitation and was confident that it could obtain Saudi Fund cofinancing
to cover a sizeable portion of the foreign and local costs. In the end,
however, the Government was unable to secure Saudi cofinancing. This
financing gap resulted in a reduction of the rehabilitation program to 800 km.
It also lowered the total project cost, substantially, to US$92.1 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$45.5 million, which would be financed
through a US$36.5 million Bank loan and US$9 million in suppliers' credits.
Soon after the loan became effective, the OPEC Fund agreed to finance the
equipment component, obviating the need for most of the suppliers' credits.
Subsequent Changes in the Proiect Scope
2.05     In 1981, the Loan Agreement was amended to include financing of
technical assistance for the establishment of CPCT within MT. Although this
component had been discussed during appraisal in October 1980, it was not
until the following year that overall agreement was reached on the need for
assistance in transport planning. The Loan Agreement was amended again in
June 1985 to include the financing of a Traffic Management and Pilot Safety
Program and a tranche of road works comprising the rehabilitation of three
highways (MC33, MC36, and GP6).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overvi
3.01     Project implementation took over four years longer than originally
planned. The primary factor was the country's macro-economic performance,
which had begun to deteriorate during the early 1980s. Consequently, the
Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposed slower growth in new investments and recurrent
expenditures, which had a negative impact on the availability of counterpart
funding. Other main causes of implementation delays were inadequate provision
for staffing and cumbersome administrative procedures for obtaining import
licenses. The former is now being addressed in a comprehensive manner under
the Sixth Highway Project (para. 5.03) and the latter under the Structural
Adjustment Loan (2962-TUN), which supports a medium-term adjustment program
with measures to liberalize trade and reduce import restrictions. By 1992,
most restrictions will have been removed. These measures should likewise
facilitate the issuance of import licenses and are therefore a major step in
the right direction.



Hiahwav Naintenance
3.02     The highway maintenance program began on schedule in September 1981
but by 1984, implementation of civil works had slowed down because of: (i)
budgetary constraints; (ii) decentralization of highway maintenance, which
had begun in 1982 (para. 5.02); and (iii) an ongoing maintenance study, which
provided an updated analysis of needs, benefits, and the necessary budget.
This component experienced relatively minor procurement problems. For
example, the agent for the selected four-wheel drive vehicles could not assure
after-sales parts or service with the result that the contract was cancelled.
Another example is the procurement of service vehicles for project supervision
and control. This was blocked by the Commission Superieure des Marches (CSM),
which wanted smaller vehicles than those offered in the evaluated bid.
Further discussion of the procurement of road maintenance equipment and
implementation of the maintenance program is provided in the Appendix, paras.
4.3 and 4.6.
Civil Works:  Road Rehabilitation
3.03     Civil works procurement posed no major problems, since general
prequalification had been carried out in 1979 during project preparation.
Start-up of the first slice, nevertheless, took place five months behind
schedule in April 1981 because of the slow provision of counterpart funds.
The second and third slices experienced similar start-up delays. By late
1983, when rehabilitation works were to have been completed, severe budgetary
constraints caused a delay of about one year. By the end of 1984, overall
progress was about 58% behind the appraisal estimates. Time-consuming
administrative procedures also contributed to delays in civil works
implementation. For example, the contract for the (MC82 road) rehabilitation
was awarded in March 1983 to a contractor who was later declared bankrupt. It
took about one year to retender and award the contract. Another contract (GP6
rehabilitation) was amended to take into account higher design standards
resulting in a cost increase of 25% over the original contract amount.
Koreover, the MC33 road, which runs through the industrial suburbs of Tunis,
was delayed considerably because problems with utilities in the right-of-way
had been underestimated at the design stage. During implementation, the
Tunisian dinar depreciated against the US dollar at a faster pace than the
differential inflation rate between local and foreign costs. It was,
therefore, necessary to amend the Loan Agreement in 1984 and again in 1985 to
raise disbursement percentages for civil works from the original 45% to 50%
and 62X, respectively, to cover the foreign exchange cost of the component.
Further discussion of road rehabilitation implementation difficulties is
provided in the Appendix, para. 4.2.
Training
3.04     In early 1981, DGPC appointed, as planned, a permanent training
officer. She coordinated and oversaw a program of overseas and local training
activities targeted to engineers, technicians, and works and site supervisors.
Her work was hampered by an ill-defined organizational structure for the
training function within DGPC and an inadequate budget. Further discussion of
project-related training is provided in the Appendix, para. 4.5.



- 6 -
aboratory Test Equipment. Traffic Counters. ant Traffic Si8ns
3.05     Laboratory test equipment and traffic counters were delivered as
planned. But the original order of traffic signs had been split among three
suppliers because the order was too large to be met by a single firm.
Following the contract award decision, a rise in the value of the US dollar
significantly increased the cost of the imported reflective sheet used in sign
manufacture with the result that only one of the three firms delivered signs.
Delivery was delayed due to the lengthy import license procedures followed by
the CSM. The Bank also agreed to finance a lot of guardrail under this
component. Further discussion of the procurement of laboratory test
equipment, traffic counters, and traffic signs is provided in the Appendix,
para. 4.3.).
Technical Assistance
3.06      Highwav Master Plan.  Completed in June 1981, the Plan examined the
existing network structure in light of the needs arising from long-term
transport demand, regional transport demand, and highway investment planning.
3.07     Transnort Planning and Coordination Unit.  CPCT was established
within MT in December 1983, about two years later than foreseen. It was
behind schedule mainly because of delays in recruiting foreign consultants. A
Unit Chief was named in May 1984. Allocation of offices and office equipment
resulted in further delays. However within a year, it had a staffing
complement of five Tunisians in addition to the consultants and became fully
operational.
3.08     Highway Maintenance Study. The study provided a good assessment of
:he condition of the paved network.  It was followed up by further analysis of
paved roads over a longer period and to cover gravel roads, and by regularly
updated, axle-load surveys. Technical assistance and specialized equipment
for these activities are being financed under the Sixth Highway Project. From
an organizational standpoint, the study confirmed earlier interest in
establishing a Road Maintenance Organization and Methods Unit in DGPC. This
is also being financed under the Sixth Highway Project.
3.09     Traffic Management and Pilot Safety Progrm.  This program was
approved in mid-1985 but was held in abeyance until the new Ministry of
Transport team took office. It was then decided that it would not be
implemented under this loan, as insufficient time was left to establish and
staff a Steering Committee and Working Group and to reach agreement on bidding
documents and procurement procedures. The program is now being partially
implemented ander the ongoing Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects.
3.10     Further discussion of the technical assistance program is provided in
the Appendix, para. 4.4.
IV. ECONOMIC REVALUATION
4.01     An economic revaluation was undertaken based on actual project costs
and traffic volumes as well as updated vehicle operating costs (VOCs).
Generally, traffic volumes have increased at a somewhat lower rate than



- 7 -
forecasts made at appraisal, namely in the range of about 71 p.a. from 1980 to
1987 compared with forecasts of 10 p.a. VOCs have increased at a rate far
above the 91 annual inflation rate during the period 1981-87, mainly as a
result of the devaluation of the dinar. The increases range from as much as
301 p.a. for the price of passengers cars and fuel costs to around 121 p.a.
for tires (Appendix, para. 7.3). In contrast, construction and maintenance
costs have increased at rates much closer to the overall rate of inflation,
namely at about 101 p.a.
4.02     The economic revaluation was conducted for about 50 individual
sections rehabilitated under the project. As at appraisal, use was made of
the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM - Version 2). Most
sections show high ERRs with the average ERR exceeding 1001. Only one
section, the GP7, showed an ERR of just under 10, this being due to higher
than expected construction costs and lower traffic volumes. Generally, the
ERRs are slightly higher than at appraisal, mainly as a result of the major
increases in VOCs since 1980. An economic revaluation was also undertaken for
the overall improved road maintenance program. This involved assessing the
surface condition of the road network for each category of road, classified
into five groups by range of traffic level. This assessment was based on a
detailed road inventory conducted in 1983 as part of the Highway Maintenance
Study financed under the project (para. 3.06). The HDM model was used to
provide VOC estimates over the network over a ten-year period (1981-90) based
on traffic volumes, road surface conditions, and vehicle characteristics and
costs. These estimates were made for the network as it is under the improved
maintenance program and for the network as it would have been in the absence
of such a program. Taking into account the investment costs of the improved
road maintenance program, the ERR is estimated at about 701.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Sectorvide Coordination
5.01     A major project achievement was the establishment of CPCT.  In spite
of these initial difficulties, the Unit provided a valuable contribution to
the strengthening of overall planning, coordination, and monitoring functions
within MT. Among other items, the Unit was instrumental in initiating reform
in the sector and the preparation of a data base on road and rail transport,
and in preparing the sector analytical review for the Seventh Development Plan
(1987-91). The Unit continues to operate within MT's newly restructured
Planning Directorate and further assistance is now planned with funds
remaining under the Third Urban Development Project (Loan 2223-TUN).
Maintenance Oxganization
5.02     In 1982, highway maintenance operations were decentralized to reduce
the control of DGPC headquarters over routine maintenance tasks. It took
several years for DGPC to adjust, resulting in lower output of road
maintenance activities. The Highway Maintenance Study (para. 3.08) provided
an evaluation of the new system as well as recommendations, some of which were
implemented under the Fourth Highway Project (e.g., organization of
maintenance crews, definition of equipment needs, and acquisition of a first
tranche of maintenance equipment). By project completion, global highway



- 8 -
maintenance output matched the physical targets agreed under the project.
However, the Highway Maintenance Study identified further increases in
productivity that could be achieved. This is now being pursued under the
ongoing Sixth Highway Project (Loan 2896-TUN).
Human Resources Development
5.03     Project-related training activities improved the technical competence
of professional staff but fell short of actual needs, particularly in the
fields of mechanical equipment ant network and site management. Overall
results were moderate because of limited commitment to training, insufficient
budgetary allocations, inadequate job definition, and cursory training needs
assessment. Staff trainirg improvements continue under the Sixth Highway
Project. In fact, the establishment and staffing of a Training Directorate
were conditions of loan effectiveness.
Project Sustainability
5.04     The project rehabilitated roads, improved maintenance, and
strengthened planning and monitoring capacity. Project successes, as well as
shortcomings, of this project ha.c been systematically followed up by the
Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects. In fact, methodology, criteria, and
procedures for technical and economic appraisal of rehabilitation subprojects
to be financed under the Sixth Highway Project were developed urnder the
Fourth. Subject to .he availability of funds, the operational and
institutional benefits generated by the project will be sustainable.
VI. IMPACT ON THE EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
6.01     Civil works components were concerned mainly with the rehabilitation
of existing road structures and pavement, including shoulders and associated
drainage. Road sections rehabilitated under the project were key sections of
Tunisia's main road network and supported regional development. There was no
adverse environmental impact in terms of land use, expropriation,
resettlement, or any other ecological or sociological aspect.
VII. BANK. BORROWER. AND CONSULTANT PERFORMANCE
Bank Performance
7.01     Close project supervision by the Bank, both during missions and
through desk reviews, helped the project survive a protracted period of
austerity. The Bank showed flexibility in adjusting to differential inflation
rate evolutions and in approving Government requests to include priority
subcomponents in the project (e.g., fourth tranche of road works, extension of
the traffic sign component). The Bank was also instrumental in having MT
participate in the project, through the establishment and operation of CPCT.
However, in spite of strong Bank assistance in preparing the road safety
component, the Pilot Traffic Management and Safety Program did not
materialize. The Bank has included this item in its current sector strategy
dialogue with the Government.



-9-
B21orFr POXtoKmunce
7.02     MEH/DGPC, the main executing agency, performed generally well.  Some
delays occurred because of lengthy procurement procedures that led, in the
case of the acquisition of traffic signs to cancellation of part of that
program. However, the main cause of delays was the lack of counterpart funds.
*         The Ministry of Finance provided investment funds, albeit generally late,
while funding for the recurrent budget remained scarce.  To remedy this
situation, the Sixth Highway Project included recurrent maintenance
operations.  Compliance with loan covenants was generally good.  In 1985, MEH
was about one year behind in the submission of quarterly progress reports
because of staff turnover. DGPC prepared a thorough, in-depth ex-post
evaluation of the project and produced an excellent PCR. MT was not involved
in the project to the extent desirable. Whereas the work carried out by CPCT
was impressive, MT did not maintain the momentum needed to carry out the Pilot
Traffic Management and Safety Program.
Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
7.03     Good relations between the Bank and MEH/DGPC contributed to the
clarification and resolution of many issues that arose during project
implementation. Relations with MT were less effective since three different
teams succeeded at the head of the Ministry during the project period and were
less familiar with Bank procedures.
Consulting Services
7.04     The Highway Maintenance Study and other technical assistance
activities were satisfactorily completed. Special mention has to be made
about the consultants for CPCT. Their performance was outstanding in view of
the transfer of knowledge and enthusiasm to the three original counterparts,
who remain at their jobs.
Proiect Documentation and Data
7.05     Preparation documents (project briefs and the decision memorandum)
outlined the objectives and major issues confronting the project. The Staff
Appraisal Report provided in-depth analyses of the project's economic and
institutional viability. Supervision reports, as well as legal addenda,
clearly documented the circumstances surrounding various changes to the
project scope and to the loan, such as new project items, extended closing
dates, and revised disbursement percentages by category. The Borrower's PCR
provided comprehensive statistical data.
VIII. FINDINGS AND LESSONS
8.01     Project experience illustrates the benefits from Bank-Borrower
collaboration over a series of lending operations: institutions have been
strengthened, planning and information techniques improved, and future work
prepared taking into account stumbling blocks encountered in the past. The
establishment of CPCT was a major project achievement even though it took
place two years behind schedule causing significant delays in project
execution. The lesson learned is that whenever important institutional



- 10 -
improvements have been identified at appraisal, the early implementation of
corresponding measures should generally permit a more timely execution of the
project.
8.02     Some significant changes were made to the project during the first
year of implementation. One change was due to confirmation of cofinancing
arrangements, which had not been clearly defined at appraisal. Another change
involved the provision of technical assistance for transport planning, which
was added at the request of MT. The Bank showed flexibility in respect of
these changes, which as a whole served to improve project impact.
8.03     The principal difficulty during project execution arose from
shortages in counterpart funding. Inc-eases in the US dollar exchange rate
demanded corresponding increases in budget appropriations, which were
difficult to obtain. Clearly, this issue deserves careful attention not only
in the case of Tunisia but in many other Borrowing countries.
8.04     ProJect implementation delays were due, in part, to procurement
bottlenecks. This demonstrates that the Bank and the Borrower ought to seek
specific measures to alleviate cumbersome administrative procedures,
particularly those involving the issuance of import licenses. The recently
approved SAL is a good start in that direction.
8.05     The project shows that comparisons of estimated and actual cost
figures have to be thoughtfully interpreted. For the rehabilitation
component, actual costs did exceed those at appraisal but the proportional
increase was almost the same as the proportional increase in project benefits.
Thus, despite the cost increase, the ERR for the rehabilitation component was
over 1001.
8.06     Human resources development focussed on specific areas of technical
competence to the exclusion of the broader training function. More careful
attention should be given to all the Borrower's staffing and training needs.
This is being followed up by the Sixth Highway Project.
8.07     During preparation of this project, the Bank tested the HDM Model for
the first time and, with the help of the Borrower, was able to identify its
more sensitive parameters. The Model, in its subsequent versions, is
recognized as a useful tool for the preparation of highway maintenance
programs.
8.08     A particularly rewarding aspect has been the steady strengthening of
institutions, already noted in the PPAM on the Second Highway Project.
Tunisian officials have consistently demonstrated their ability to adopt
planning and management techniques imported through technical assistance and
to make all necessary adjustments so that foreign m_thods and solutions become
appropriate for Tunisian requirements.



I~~~~~~~~PNI



1.        INTRODUCTION
1.1       Sector Content
Strategic Obiectives and Transport Sector Issues
When it became independent in 1956, Tunisia took possession of a
diversified transport system that was quite well adapted to the requirements
of the time and was adequate to serve the country's economic development needs
until the end of the 1960s. However, since 1970 the transport sector has
become more important because of rapid economic growth, which has produced a
very considerable increase in traffic.
During execution of the Fourth Development Plan (1973-77), Tunisia
succeeded to some small extent in increasing the capacity of its transport
sector, through investment in infrastructure and vehicles.
Although the road network adequately serves the various areas and
supports rural and regional development, it is insufficiently maintained, and
is becoming inadequate for the rapidly increasing volume of traffic, being
very old and designed for a different type of tr4ffic, with low volume (in
1956, the average was 192 vehicles per day, heavy vehicles constituting 16.22).
The increase to 623 vehicles per day since 1970, and the demands of
economic and social development, necessitate the modernization and
strengthening of the network, which has become inadequate because of its
wioding curves, narrow roads, hogbacks, frequent blockages and poor pavement
structures.
In order to prevent the rapid deterioration of the network and
enable it to play its full role, the government has decided to concentrate its
efforts on modernizing and rehabilitating tne existing network, and on
improving maintenance.
1.1.2     Consequently, the Fifth and Sixth Development Plans (1977-81 and
1982-86) identify the following major objectives for the transport sector:
(i)  more efficient utilization of the existing infrastructure, together
with its maintenance and upgrading, if need be;
(ii)  promotion of rural development by upgrading feeder roads;
(iii)  the reorganization of SRTs (Regional Transport Companies).
1.2       The Role of the Bank and the Sector Loan Strategy
Since 1964, the Bank has assisted the Tunisian government with eight
transport projects.
The First Highway Project (Loan 746-TUN, 1971, US$24 million), the
Second Highway Project ('>an 1188-TUN, 1976, US$28 million) and the First



-2-
Railway Project (Loan 606/Credit 150-TUN, 1964, US$17 million) focused on
modernization and rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads, and renewal
of track and purchase of railway equipment.
Two smaller loans in the port subsector (Loan 380-TUN, 1964,
US$7 million and Loan 573-TUN, 1969, US$8.5 million) provided financing for
support facilities for port operation, mainly dredging, maintenance operations
and cargo handling equipment.
A Third Highway Project (Loan 1601-TUN, 1978, US$32 million)
initiated an integrated program for improving about 1,100 km of rutal roads.
The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1841-TUN, 1979, US$36.5 million) is
for the rehabilitation of about 800 km of paved roads.
The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 3722-TUN, US$35.5 million) continues
the Third Project, and is concerned with the upgrading of 1,200 km of rural
roads.
The Sixth Highway Project has been appraised, its objectives being
to upgrade the maintenance management and rehabilitate 800 km of priority
roads (Loan 2896-TUN, November 2, 1987, US$6.3 million).
The Third Port Project (Loan 1797-TUN, of February 8, 1980,
US$42.5 million) will assist the government in modernizing the ports of La
Goulette and Sfax.
The purpose of the Second Urban Transport Project (Loan 2429-TUN of
August 28, 1984; US$33 million) is to upgrade transport in Greater Tunis.
2.        THE ROAD NETWORK
2.1       The Tunisian road network consists of about 18,600 km of roads
officially maintained by DPC, and more than 22,000 km of unclassified tracks
of economic and social imporLance.
The classified roads, for which DPC is responsible, are divided into
three groups:
(a) primary highways (routes de grand parcours, GP), defined as highways
linking major centers in Tunisia with neighboring countries;
(b) secondary highways (routes de moyenne communication, MC) for
inter-regional service;
(c) tertiary or local roads (routes vicinales d'etat, RVE).
2.2       Road standards are based on traffic volumes.  Thus, in the more
densely trafficked northeast of the country and on the coast, many secondary
and tertiary roads have a bituminous surface, whereas primary roads in the
south or northwest can have gravel or earth surfaces.



-3.
The table below shows the distribution of types of surfacing by road
classification:
NETWORK OF ROADS MAINTAINED BY DPC
(as of January 1986, in km)
Surface TyPe       Length    Primary   Secondary   Tertiary   Unclassified
Paved              10,382      3,670      4,023       1,622         1,067
Gravel and
improved earth      2,703        193        780       1,274           456
Unimproved earth    5,519        225      1,858       3,228           208
3.        THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
3.1       General Data
3.1.1     Road maintenance and rehabilitation lost momentum after comple-ion
of the First Highway Project. As a result, by 1978 the network's service
standard had fallen below the level required for satisfactory economic
development, and the need to regain this lost momentum became urgent. The
Fourth Highway Project was designed to achieve this objective. It was
Identified in November 1978, and was prepared by DPC, with the assistance of
Bank preparation missions in March and June 1979, and the appraisal mission in
October 1979.
3.1.2     The overall objectives of the project are to improve the management
of the Tunisian highway network and to achieve balanced development of the
highway infrastructure. Specifically, the project is designed to:
-    meet the urgent backlog of road rehabilitation;
-    expand road maintenance activities and improve the efficiency of the
maintenance organization;
-    strengthen the institutional framework through the introduction of
improved planning techniques, information systems, and staff
training;
-    progressively raise the recurrent budget for maintenance to an
adequate level, and support a program of traffic management and road
safety.
3.2       Appraisal
Project appraisal followed an overall study of the road network.
The following parameters were used in the breakdown: climatic regions,
roughness, structure, traffic and surface condition.



-4-
The Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), was
adjusted tc match Tunisian experience and data and used to define optimum
maintenance policy for the network and to evaluate the economic benefits of
the rehabilitation program for the first year. The latter showed very high
rates of return, indicating (if such indication were necessary) that the
network is unsuitable for current traffic and that rehabilitation would
considerably reduce vehicle operating costs, thus resulting in very large
savings for the community.
Implementation of an optimum policy requires improved utilization of
available equipment and resources, together with the purchase of maintenance
and inspection equipment.
Consequently, the project consists of the following items:
-    rehabilitation of 800 km of the 1,700 km of roads in need of
attention;
-    purchase of maintenance equipment and spare parts for increasing the
efficiency of road maintenance, thus increasing the surface dressing
program to 800 km per year;
-    development of a training unit responsible for planning and
coordinating training;
3    financing of about 120 man-months of consulting services for
establishing an organization-and-methods unit and preparing studies
on the planning of road maintenance and the Highway Master Plan;
-    purchase of laboratory and workshop equipment for developing site
tests and providing DPC with test equipment for improving
maintenance planning;
-    provision of 25 (subsequently increased to 50) traffic counters for
the statistics section, and 6,000 road signs for the road safety
program.
The project cost estimates and allocations were as follows:
Financing in
millions of US$
Millions    Millions of    Foreign            Supplier
of D         US$ 1/       Exchange   Bank    Credit
Rehabilitation               27.5          68.7          44.6S     30.6       0
Maintenance equipment         7.2           18           62.5b      2.1       9
Workshop, laboratory,signs,
traffic counters            1.3           3.2          62.5%      2        0
Technical assistance
and training                0.9           2.2         80%         1.8      0
TOTAL                        36.9          92.1          50        36.5       9
_/   US$1 = D0.400.



-5-
In the negotiations, the government made the following commitments:
(i) Before issuing invitations to bid, DPC would submit for Bank
approval the technical and economic studies on each of the road
sections, in accordance with an agreed methodology, criteria and
procedures.
(ii) DPC would execute the maintenance program in accordance with a
jointly agreed three-year action plan.
(iii) DPC would submit its annual program of activities to the Bank on
September 30 each year.
(iv) Agreements on export credits relating to the maintenance equipment
should be implemented on September 30, 1981.
The Bank's Board approved a US$36.5 million loan at an 8.25S
interest rate, for 17 years, including a four-year grace period.
The Loan Agreement was signed on May 22, 1980, and the effective
date was November 28, 1980. The closing date was to be September 30, 1984.
Project implementation was the responsibility of DPC, with the
participation of all the headquarters divisions. Supervision was carried out
by the regional subdivisions, with the assistance of headquarters staff.
4.        PROJECT EXECUTION
4.1       Start-Up and Changes
4.1.1     Initial schedule
Construction works were initially scheduled to begin on April 1,
1921, and to be completed on September 30, 1983.
The main dates in the original schedule were as follows:
-    Civil Works:
Beginning                   End
First Slice           April 1, 1981            April 1, 1982
Second Slice          January 1, 1982          January 1, 1983
Third Slice           July 1, 1982             September 30, 1983
-    Delivery of Equipment:
From September 1, 1981 to October 1, 1982.
-    Technical Assistance:
From September 1, 1980 to October 1, 1982.



-6-
4.1.2     Execution dates
In the first year, works began in accordance with the agreed program
(see Annexes 3, 4 and 5).
However, time overruns affected execution.
The main dates in the execution of program were as follows:
-    Civil Works (see Annex 3):
Beginning                  End
First Slice          September 1981          March 1983
Second Slice         May 1982                June 1987
Third Slice          November 19813
Lot 11               December 1984           August 1986
GP6:MC33:MC36        From December 1984      Aigust 1988
to August 1985
-    Delivery of Equipment (see Annex 2):
From September 1981 to July 1984.
-    Technical Assistance (see Annex 3):
From November 1980 to December 1987.
The project began on schedule at the beginning of September 1981
with the works relating to the first four lots. Lot No. 2 was subsequently
cofinanced under the Second Highway Project.
The maintenance and laboratory equipment lots were initiated in
June 1981.
As regards operating equipment, changes were made consisting of the
cancellation of two road sign lots, and the introduction of a lot comprising
signalling equipment for 17 intersections.
Equipment purchases were not as planned at appraisal, because of the
change in financing.
The Tunisian Government undertook to obtain a supplier credit for
US$9 million by September 30, 1981. This credit was replaced by a
US$6 million OPEC loan.
Problems due to the lack of resources, together with the rise in the
dollar (see Annex for chart), made it necessary for the closing date to be
postponed on several occasions up to September 30, 1987, and the disbursement
date to be postponed to June 30, 1988 so as to limit the unspent dollar
balance.



-7f
In addition, the repayment percentage for the rehabilitation
component increased from 45% to 55S and then 63X, because of the increase in
the foreign exchange share of the works.
4.2       The Rehabilitation Program
4.2.1     Content
Rehabilitation of the paved network, originally consisting of three
annual slices, affected 780 km of the 800 km originally planned, and consisted
of four lots.
The project applied to priority sections of the paved network, and
consisted of coordinated work on the most trafficked main links, so as to
adapt them to increasing volumes. Essentially, they consisted of road
strengthening or widening, and the rehabilitation of shoulders and drainage.
The benefits of these works result from a reduction in vehicle
operating costs (due to improved surface conditions), road operating costs and
supplementary maintenance expenditures.
The HDM Model (pavement strengthening) was used to calculate these
benefits.
As regards widening, DPC prepared a methodology that enables it to
use the same Model to assess the economic rate of return from widening. This
employs a system of equivalences between widened and strengthened pavements.
The internal rate of return based on original cost and traffic
projections exceeded 15X.
4.2.2     Description
The rehabilitation program consists of 17 lots distributed over 17
governorates. In addition to the rehabilitation of various highly trafficked
urban or suburban sections, the following were the main items in the program:
-    GP 1:  El Jem - Sfax:  strengthening and widening to 7.40 mi;
-    GP 3:  Cheylus - El Fahs:  widening to 7 m;
-    GP 4:  El Fahs - Siliana:  in the first phase, widening to 7 m of
the El Fahs - Robaa section;
-    GP 5:  Medjez El Bab - Le Kef:  widening to 7.40 m, and
strengthening of the whole section;
-    GP 6:  Medjez El Bab - Beja:  widening to 7.40 m, and pavement
strengthening, with modernization works;
-    GP 7:  Tabarka - Algerian frontier:  strengthening of entire
section, which has considerably deteriorated;



-8-
-    GP 13:  Menzel Chaker - Lassouada:  widening to 7 m;
-    GP 19:  Tataouine - Ramada:  widening to 7 m;
-    GP 3:  Hajeb El Ayoun-GP 13:  widening over 30 km;
-   GP 3:  Tozeur - Nefta:  widening to 7 m over 23 km;
-   MC 116:  Houmet Souk - Ajim:  strengthening and widening to 7 m over
19.6 km;
-   MC 117:  El Kantara - Houmet Souk:  strengthening and widening to
6 m over 25.20 Kcm;
-   MC 52:  B6ja - Nefza:  Although the original project provided only
for strengthening, the road was also widened to 6 n in view of the
traffic that will be generated by the development of Mentazah
Tabarka;
-   MC 82:  Chebba - Sfax:  widening to 6 m or 7.40 m over 58 km;
MC 33:  Port of La Goulette:  modernization over 9 km, together with
construction of two engineering structures and doubling of width
over 7 km.
It should be noted that several sections included in the Fourth
Highway Project are continuations of sections improved under the Second Road
Project.
The above indicates the importance attributed in the Fourth Highway
Project to works on the important links among the various major economic
centers. These works are particularly necessary because these links are the
oldest in existence and carry a large volume of passenger car and heavy
vehicle traffic. To be noted among these sections are GP 1, GP 3, GP 4, GP 5
and GP 6.
4.2.3     Execution schedule and time overruns (see Annex 1)
According to the original schedule, the Fourth Highway Project was
scheduled to be completed on September 30, 1983 and the closing date of the
Loan was September 30, 1984.
The closing date was finally postponed until September 30, 1987. As
of March 30, 1988, certain items had not yet been provisionally accepted.
If all lots were assumed to be accepted by August 1988, the time
overrun in the execution of the works component would be more than four years.
These overruns are essentially due to a lack of ministry resources
resulting from the increase in the cost of works compared with the original
appraisal and the large unspent dollar credit balance resulting from changes



-9-
in the exchange rate. Thus, in 1983, the allocations in dinars earmarked at
the beginning of the project for financing the rehabilitation works had been
totally committed, whereas much of the loan had yet to be committed.
In addition to the above two reasons, the 1984-85 economic crisis in
the country-characterized by a lack of liquidity and the problems faced by
enterprises in making payments-aggravated these difficulties and hindered
progress, even leading to the bankruptcy of several road-construction
enterprises (STC and SABAG).
In order to reduce the unspent balance, the World Bank agreed to the
financing of a fourth set of lots (MC 36, MC 33 and GP 6) for which Tunisian
credit was already available. The works comprising this fourth lot did not
begin until December 1984.
The main overruns in works execution resulting from problems with
enterprises or arising on site are as follows:
-    Lot 5: The overrun was due to the late start of work.
-    Lots 8 and 9:  Both were delayed by more than two years, thus
doubling the execution period. It should be noted that the
enterprise hired for these two lots was originally prequalified for
a single lot. In order to enable the enterprise to compensate for a
loss of income due to an error in the bid (amounting to more than
D 200,000), the government decided exceptionally to grant the
enterprise the two lots (8 and 9) for which it was the lowest
bidder.
-    Lot 13: The works were considerably delayed because of the problews
of STC, which eventually went bankrupt.
-    Lot 16:  The overrun was due to the late start-up of works.
-    GP 6:  Because the highway rapidly deteriorated between the
presentation of the study and execution, the strengthening structure
had to be reexamined and the contracts committee, had to approve the
changes. Consequently, the completion of execution was delayed.
-    MC 33: The overrun resulted from the contractors' works, and from
construction problems arising in the structure over the railway.
Certain lots, such as Nos. 3, 4, 6, 7 and 12 were executed on
schedule.
4.2.4     Cost of works (see Annex 6)
Cost overruns in the works component resulted from the following two
causes:
-    the difference between actual cost and the contract amount;



-10-
the difference between actual cost and the cost calculated at
appraisal.
Annex 6 shows-by individual lot-initial costs, price changes and
additional works, and also shows these as a percentage of the final total.
Cost overruns expressed in dinars vary considerably from one lot to
another, ranging from 0% for lot 6 to more than 501 for lots 8, 9 and 11, the
average being 271, with the following breakdown:
-    132, resulting from orice changes;
-    141, resulting from increases in the amount of works.
Overall, cost overruns are as follows:
-    Total procurement costs                 D 34.300 million
-    Total cost of additional works          D  4.816 million
-    Total price changes                     D  4.403 million
-    Actual total cost                       D 43.519 million
The reasons for the cost overruns, as compared with the original
contracts, are as follows:
-    Contract changes in prices, which were aggravated by the following
factors:
-    Contract periods were quite long (because of the need to
maintain traffic flows during the works; i.e. lots 5, 8 and 9).
-    All the lots were awarded to Tunisian enterprises, so that all
costs were subject to fluctuations.
-    Amendments to the original contracts, such as the widening of MC 52,
which had not originally been planned.
-    Rehabilitation or reconstruction of structures on GP 5 (lot 9),
which were too narrow for the road.
-    Development of the Medjez El Bab and Le Kef crossing, which was not
originally included in lots 8 and 9.
-    The reexamination of the pavement structure of GP 6, which was
justified by the rapid and unexpected aging of the road, deflection
having increased by more than 600S1
-    Specific constraints relating to the proximity of housing to the
pavement, making it necessary to reduce the preexisting surfacing
(lot 4).



-11-
Total project cost-expressed in dinars-exceeded the appraisal
projections by 58Z (see Table 2).
This overrun is justified by the age of the roads that were
rehabilitated and their advanced state of disrepair, which made it necessary
to increase strengthening beyond the degree deemed necessary in the appraisal,
and make greater use of bituminous and slag aggregate.
Price increases resulting from imports (i.e. equipment purchases and
operating costs) produced successive increases in the costs per km of works.
so that the cost of comparable activities was 46S higher in 1982 than in 1981.
Other factors were the modernization works for GP 6, MC 33 and
MC 36, which involved (in the case of GP 6) the construction of new roads with
large-scale earthworks, together with the construction of engineering
structures for MC 33. These works were not included in the appraisal.
4.3       Execution of Part II of the Loan
4.3.1     Purchase of equipment
The loan amounts originally intended for purchasing maintenance
equipment, workshop and laboratory equipment, road signs and traffic counters
total US$13.1 million, with the following breakdown:
Supplier
World Bank       Credits         Total
(in millions of US$)
Road maintenance equipment               2.1             9.0           11.1
Workshop and laboratory equipment,
road signs and traffic counters          2.0                            2.0
4.1            9.0            13.1
The US$9 million in supplier credits were subsequently replaced by
US$6 million from the OPEC Fund.
Available financing totaled US$10.1 million:
Supplier
World Bank       Credits         Total
(in millions of US$)
Road maintenance equipment               2.1             6.0            8.1
Workshop and laboratory equipment,
road signs and traffic counters           .0                            2.0
4.1            6.0            10.1



-12-
Consequently, the modifications in the equipment procurement program
were the result of financial changes.
4.3.2     Road maintenance equipment (see Annexes 4 and 7)
(a) Procurement program:
After these changes, DPC planned to purchase the following items of
road maintenance equipment (see 2A): six tankers (20 t), 29 hand-operated
sprayers, 8 brooms, 15 chip spreaders, 1 tow truck, 1 forklift truck,
70 graders, 1 truck equipped with a boom and aerial platform, 177 trucks,
6 compressors, 1 "Junior" marker (traceuse), 12 markers, 108 tanks (3,000l1),
2 road tractors, 35 light trucks + 32 light trucks, 20 all-terrain vehicles,
10 transport vehicles, 1 crushing unit, 1 crane (16 t).
(b) Changes:
The following changes were subsequently made to these equipment
purchases:
-    cancellation of the crushing unit and the 20 all-terrain vehicles;
-    purchase of two additional road tractors and six trailers;
-    a reduction in the number of tanks from 108 to 40.
(c) Contract deadlines (see Annex 2):
The main contracts for these components were made between the end of
1981 and the beginning of 1982, i.e. approximately within the periods planned
at appraisal.
The tankers, semitrailers and trucks were delivered more than one
year later than the dates stipulated in the contracts and planned at
appraisal.
(d) Cost of maintenance equipment (see Annex 7):
Initially, the contracts for this component totaled D 6,042,736.340.
The actual cost was D 6,352,063.309.
The reason for the discrepancy was the purchase of three
semitrailers and two additional tractors, together with changes in customs
duties (+ D 48,804.868) and in the exchange rate (+ D 71,879.269).
In addition, nine contracts for the purchase of spare parts were
made between 1983 and 1985, totaling D 881,150.



-13-
4.3.3     Laboratory equipment, traffic counters and road signs (see Annexes 4
and 5)
(a)  Procurement program and changes:
- Laboratory equipment:
Financing was provided for the purchase of testing equipment for the
regional laboratories at Sousse, Sfax, Bizerte, Le Kef and Gabes and for the
two new laboratories at Gafsa and Kairouan. The equipment covered require-
ments for carrying out geotechnical, bitumen, concrete and soils testing.
The Fourth Highway Project provided for the strengthening of the
main laboratory in Tunis and the establishment of a pavement testing unit with
modern equipment for studying and monitoring pavement behavior. Four
contracts for the supply of this equipment were made at the end of 1981. They
totaled D 713,000. The equipment was delivered in July 1982, i.e. within the
period planned at appraisal.
- Traffic counters:
To enhance the capability for analysis, design and refinement of the
maintenance programs, the statistics section was provided with 50 traffic
counters, together with spare parts.
For the sake of standardization, a negotiated contract was made with
Socikt6 Tunisienne d'Etudes et d'Assistance, with the approval of the World
Bank.
- Traffic Lights:
In March 1981, the World Bank agreed to a request from DPC to
finance installations on 12 intersections, this number subsequently being
increased to 17.
The railway safety program was to have received the following three
sets of signs:
-    Lot 1:  4,200 police signs and 4,000 danger signs;
-    Lot 2:  2,200 advance signs and 800 m of place names;
-    Lot 3:  2,000 m of direction signs (6,000 signs).
A contract was issued only in the case of lot 3, and no further
action was taken on the other two.
(b) Contract Dates and Changes (see Annex 4):
Except as regards the signs, contracts were issued at the end of
1981 and the beginning of 1982, i.e. within the periods planned at appraisal.



-14-
The final delivery dates were also on schedule. The contract for signs was
not awarded until one year after bid opening.
Similarly, import problems delayed the delivery of this equipment,
and even impacted the quantity delivered (i.e. 2,073 units instead of 6,000).
(c) Costs (see Annex 7):
The total cost of equipment, statistical and operating contracts was
as follows:
Laboratory                      D   712,942.357
Operations and Statistics       D   499,852.979
Total                           D 1,212,795.336
Actual costs were4 as follows:
Laboratory                           D   713,812.707
+  Customs                           D   810,363.707
Operations and Statistics           ID  480,426.676
TOTAL                                D 1,290,790.383
The reasons for the difference between contract costs and actual
costs is the change in the volume of works (as in the case of the traffic
lights and the contract for signs), together with the increase in customs
duties.
4.4       Technical Assistance (see Annexes 5 and 8)
4.4.1     Original program and changes
According to the appraisal, this component was to provide for 120
rn-mnths of consulting services to assist in:
-    establishing an organization and methods unit for project monitoring
and evaluation, including road inventory and accident data
processing;
-    preparing studies necessary for the planning of road maintenance,
including a highway master plan;
-    preparing economic studies and engineering for the second and third
years' rehabilitation programs;
-    carrying out a training program for DPC staff in Tunisia and abroad;
-    preparing engineering for about 1,000 km of rural roads.



-15-
Subsequently, this component was considerably amended to consist of
the following studies:
-    the highway master plan;
-    the road maintenance study;
-    the study of the transport coordinating unit.
Establishment of an organization and methods unit was postponed when
the maintenance study began, because the latter was to result in possible
changes in maintenance and organization.
The engineering studies for the second and third year's
rehabilitation programs were prepared on force account, and not included in
the Fourth Highway Project.
4.4.2     Preparation of studies
(a) Study of the Highway Master Plan
The Highway Master Plan was prepared in light of the existing
network structure, the needs arising from long-term transport demand, regional
planning programs, and the planning of highway investment.
The study began on October 17, 1980 and was completed on June 2,
1981, being executed by SETEC under a negotiated contract.
(b) The Road Maintenance Study
This began on November 15, 1982 and was completed on March 15,
1985. It was prepared by a group of French and Tunisian consulting firms
(SETEC, SOTUETEC and SOTINFOR), and had the following objectives:
-   examination and diagnostic study of the existing road network;
-    examination of road maintenance methods and methods of new pavement
design and strengthening;
-   analysis of road maintenance resources and organization;
-   examination of the proportion of the budget allocated to maintenance.
Changes became necessary during the course of the work, particularly
In the case of the study of pavement behavior and the modifications in the HDM
surface deterioration model. This latter aspect of the study was
disappointing because of the lack of information and the relatively short
duration of the study.
Nevertheless, a pavement monitoring methodology was prepared. In
view of the serious problem of equipment, this study examined that aspect in
greater depth, emphasizing the need for:



-16-
-    training road maintenance personnel;
-    improving the management of spare parts, which is initially manual,
but will later be computerized;
-    improving spare parts procurement by selecting suppliers more
judiciously and paying them within a reasonable period;
-    establishing a system of five levels for equipment repair workshops.
(c) The Transport Planning Unit
In April 1982, the World Bank approved an amendment to the Loan to
include the financing of consulting services to assist the newly established
Transport Planning Unit, which has the following responsibilities:
-    improving transport management;
-    systematically examining and planning inv%estment in the sector.
At the end of 1983, a consulting firm was appointed, although the
unit was not provided with a sufficiently large staff.
In July 1986, when changes were made in the upper levels of the
Ministry of Transport, the consultants completed their work and the Unit
(which, since its establishment in January 1985, had consisted of three
engineers) was attached to the Directorate of Planning.
4.5       Training
At the beginning of 1981, DPC appointed a person to be responsible
for planning and coordinating training, particularly for engineers,
technicians, works supervisors (conducteurs de travaux), and site supervisors.
Fellowships were provided to enable engineers to take courses
lasting one or two months, and seminars were organized in Tunisia.
The personnel consists of 5,000 persons, and the training provided
(in man-months) can be summarized as follows:
-    Engineers:  50
-    Technicians:  3
-    Foremen:  12.5
-    Brigade Chiefs:  50
-    Equipment Chiefs: 10.5
-    Mechanics:  19



-17-
-    Drivers and Workers (refresher or initial courses in the operation
of graders): 106
Consequently, training has been intermittent, falling short of
needs, particularly in the field of mechanical equipment and network and site
management, which is very largely the responsibility of the regional services.
Training has suffered from the following shortcomings, among others:
-    a lack of annual funding allocations;
-    a failure to define the duties of the personnel;
-    a lack of supervisory and monitoring bodies representing the
government agencies, for assessing both needs and the effects of
training.
Expenditures under the Fourth Highway Project total about D 35,000,
as follows:
-    ESTP Agreement:          D 29,868.75
-    Road Safety Seminar:      D 4,900
4.6       Inprovements in Maintenance (Annexes 9 and 10)
DPC has prepared a road maintenance improvement program consisting
mainly of an increase in the volume of routine and periodic maintenance and
the application of a new loi cadre to strengthen maintenance teams.
4.6.1     Increases in the volume of maintenance (Annex 9)
A comparison of the volumes of maintenance activities for 1978-80
and 1981-86 shows the following annual increases:
-    67 km of surface dressing;
-    58 km of shoulder regraveling;
-    42 km of treatment with asphaltic concrete;
-    4,400 km of shoulder reprofiling;
-    2,500 km of earth-road reprofiling.
There were the following reductions in the regraveling of earth
roads and patching:
-    Patching:  175,000 mz;
-    Regraveling of earth roads:  243 km.



-18-
Although the reduction in patching is logical and economical, in
light of the increase in surface dressing, this is much less true of earth
road regraveling. Nevertheless, to offset the impact of this reduction,
efforts were devoted to reprofiling these roads in order to improve their
serviceability.
On average, the frequency of surface dressing on paved government
roads was once every 19 years in 1979, once every 14 years in 1980, and once
every 15 years in 1987; i.e. there is still some way to go before the target
of once every 10 years is achieved. This target was confirmed by the Road
Maintenance Study, and the rate of return to be expected has been calculated
as over 302.
4.6.2     Maintenance budget
Annex 10 sunmmarizes the financial components of Article 60 of DPC,
in current dinars. The following table shows maintenance costs governed by
Article 60, at 1987 prices and in light of price change indicators:
Sz      9   I8   m2              12m  I S nu    A   lsa6  1282   I8
Amount          2.37   2.58  2.92   3.34   4.2   4.8   5.6   6.11  4.91   5.05  8.0
(in millions
of current
dinars)
Price Change   278   264   242   224   172   158   155   151   143   100   92
Index
Amount          6.59   6.81   7.08   7.48   7.22   7.58   8.68   9.24   7.03  5.06  7.36
(in millions
of dinars at
1987 prices)
The budget has, therefore, increased from an average of
D 6.83 million from 1978 to 1980, to D 7.46 million from 1981 to 1988, an
increase of 9b.
Adjusted to actual length in km, this increase is only 2S, and this
figure does not take into account the complexity of certain structures built
during the 1981-88 period and requiring very high standards of maintenance and
very large allocations (e.g. the Tunis-Rammamet highway and the Bizerte
Bridge).
4.6.3     Objectives and performance:  1981, 1982 and 1983
A comparison of project objectives and performance from 1981 to 1983
shows that the volume of principal maintenance activities actually performed
was satisfactory, being 90S or more of the planned total.
A very low performance rate (about 501) was evident only in the
regraveling of shoulders and earth roads, network rehabilitation and pavement
markings.



-19-
The following table shows a breakdown by operations of project
objectives and performance:
COMPARISON OF ACTION PLAN AND WORKS PROGRAM
(Averae Per Year)
Objective      Actual        S of Objective
Unit       1981-83       1981-83
Routine laintenance
Patching                    m2       435,000       480,000           110
Shoulder leveling          lum         9,700        12,000           124
and cleaning out
of ditches
Rehabilitation of           U          2,000         4,227           211
signing
Installation of             U          1,500         4,100           173
nw signs
Pavement marking            km           600           260            43
Levling of                  km         9,700         9,700           100
unsurfaced roads
Periodic Maintenance
Surface dressing, on        km           660           600            91
force account
Overlays                    km            50            50           100
Regraveling of              km                         290
shoulders                               700
Regraveling of              km                          11.3          43
earth roads
Rehabilitation
On force account            km            80            72            90
By enterprise               km           250       780 over 7 years  44
(110 km)
4.6.4    Needs and performance:  1985. 1986 and 1987
From 1985 to 87, the percentage of works executed compared with real
needs (determined in 1984 by the Road Maintenance Study) declined. In
addition to shoulder and earth road regraveling and pavement marking, surface
dressing overlaps and shoulder reprofiling declined. The volume of work
actually executed was less than 702 of needs in each of these categories.



-20-
For this period, the following percentages of needs were met:
Surface dressing                     651
Shoulder regraveling                 70S
Regraveling of earth roads            4S
Asphaltic concrete overlays          661
Reprofiling of shoulders             462
Reprofiling of earth roads           94%
Pavement markings                    36t
New and maintained signs             831
Special operations                   561
4.6.5     Organization of maintenance
In 1982, a law defining the various types of maintenance team was
established, as part of the decentralization process.
In 1988, the maintenance services (divided among 23 governorates)
consisted of the following:
-    126 reprofiling teams;
-    76 patching teams;
-    23 engineering structures teams;
-    20 signs teams;
-    9 sand-clearing and snow-clearing teams;
-    23 transport groups;
-    23 earthworks groups;
-    23 asphalting groups.
Periodic maintenance works are planned annually by the Directorate
of Highway Maintenance and Operation, in response to proposals from Regional
Services, which are also responsible for supervising and organizing the
planned works and drawing up quarterly reports.
The principal manuals used for planning rehabilitation and surface
dressing, together with calculating the cost of the various maintenance



-21-
activities, are held by the districts (arrondissements) (i.e. the atlas and
the cost accounting procedures).
This organization is very different from that in existence at
appraisal. In 1980, routine maintenance, together with the maintenance of
engineering structures and signs, was executed by regional teams that were
independent of the Subdivisions.
Routine maintenance was executed by national groups supervised by
the Directorate of Highway Maintenance and Operation. These groups operated
in rotation through the various Subdivisions, in accordance with plans and
programs prepared jointly each year by the Directorate of Maintenance and the
Regional Services.
There were the foilowing eleven groups:
-    6 national rolling and asphalting groups;
-    3 earthworks groups (excluding regraveling);
-    2 groups specializing in earthworks and the laying of well graded
slag aggregate.
5.        PROCUREMENT
Civil works procurement posed no major problems. In 1979, a general
prequalification was carried out, and has been periodically updated. Contracts
were been grouped into lots with totals exceeding US$2 million. The provisions
and procedures specified in the Loan Agreement were fulfilled.
The equipment component was the subject of international competitive
bidding, except for the contract for 50 traffic counters. Standardization was
necessary in this case, so a contract was negotiated with Societe Le Mat6riel,
once Bank approval had been obtained.
Consulting service contracts were issued after prequalification, and
on the basis of limited bidding. An exception was the contract for the
Highway Master Plan, which was negotiated.
Franco-Tunisian groups were hired for all consulting services,
except the study on transport coordination. For this, a French consultant was
hired that had no connection with any Tunisian firm.
6.0 PROJECT COST AND DISBURSEMENTS (ANNEXES NO. 1 AND NO. 2)
6.1 Costs
Project costs changed considerably because of changes in the dollar
exchange rate. The value of the dollar increased from D 0.499 at appraisal to
D 0.890 in March 1985, and stabilized at about D 0.820 in 1988.



-22-
In dinars, actual project cost increased by more than 452 compared with
the original calculations, in spite of the reduction in equipment
procurement. In relation to the dollar, the estimated reduction in these
costs, taking into account the amount committed, the disbursements made, and
the eventual exchange rate (US$1 = D 0.820), is more than 262.
The reason is the considerable increase in the value of the dollar, which
averaged D 0.20 during project execution, i.e. about double the value at
appraisal (D 0.400).
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
(In millions)
Cost: Actual/Appraisal
Actual Cost     Appraisal 
Dinars   US$   Dinars   USV         Dinars   US$
Civil Works         43.52  55.93    27.5    68.7         158   81
Equipment:
- Maintenance        6.35   8.20     7.2    18            88    46
- Workshop,
laboratory       2.17   2.76     1.3     3.2         167   86
Assistance and       1.30   1.44
Training           0.04   0.04     0.9     2.2         148    67
TOTAL                53.4   68.4     36.9    92.1          145    74
6.2     Disbursements
The annexed chart shows actual disbursements in millions of US$, and
also shows what disbursements would have been if the exchange rate had
remained constant at the appraisal level. At the closing date (September 30,
1984), the loan would have totaled US$12.994 million, instead of US$36.5
million.
As of February 26, 1988, disbursements totaled US$30.25 million. The
balance (US$5.25 million) could not have been completely disbursed by June 30,
1988, because commitments totaled US$68.4 million, corresponding to a
financing of US$39.16 million (including US$3.622 million in equipment
financing provided by OPEC.
The sum theoretically available from the Bank was US$35.54 million,
so that, in theory, the unspent balance was US$0.96 million. However, because
of the difficulty of utilizing the remaining US$6.25 million before June 30,
1988, DPC decided to cancel US$2.5 million, and applied to do this on April
12, 1988.
In addition, if the exchange rate had remained constant, the original
loan amount (U$36.5 million) would not have covered total disbursements



-23-
(US$48.958), assuming that the repayment rates had remained those originally
planned at appraisal.
At the same exchange rate, and with the original repayment rates, the
actual repayment rate is 652 of that originally planned. The reason for this
is the delay in project execution.
7.       EVALUATION OF THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
7.1      Introduction
The purpose of this section is to present the data and results of the
evaluation of the programs for strengthening and improving the maintenance of
the paved network.
7.2      The Strengthening Program
7.2.1    Content
The network strengthening program was prepared between 1981 and
1985. It consisted of four annual slices, execution being distributed over
the period from 1982 to the end of 1987, except for a small residual amount
which is expected to be completed in August 1988.
The original program was to be applied to 782.5 km with the following
breakdown, based on type of strengthening operation:
Operation                        km                b
1.  Strengthening and Widening            385.3           49.2
2.  Pavement Widening                     259.5           33.2
3.  Strengthening                          87.5           11.2
4.  Overlays                              50.2            6.4
TOTAL                                782.5          100.0
7.2.2     Economic evaluation
Economic appraisal of this program was performed in 1981/82 and
1983, using the HDM Model (version 1), except for the fourth slice (MC37, GP6
and MC33). Most of the data used were calculated at 1981 factor cost. In
particular, traffic per trunk road was calculated using the results of the
1977 census and the growth rates from 1972 to 1977. However, because of the
wide differences among the results obtained, the annual growth rates assign 'd
were 102 for the 1977-86 period, and 8S after 1986.



-24-
The results from the EDM Model showed very high internal rates of
return for all the planned operations, justifying the adoption and
implementation of the program. The HDM Model was not used in appraising the
fourth slice. This was studied separately, and included the following items:
-    MC26, as part of the transfer of heavy transport:  doubling of lanes
to reduce traffic generated by the new development center;
-    MC33, in relation to the construction of the new port of Rad&s:
widening and strengthening from GP1 to the new port, in order to
deal with the traffic diverted and generated by the port;
-    GP6, as part of a national program for improving the northwestern
network (i.e. correction of design, and the widening and
strengthening of certain sections).
These three projects were the subject of a feasibility study,
prepared in association with their related projects. Furthermore, they
constitute only 62 of the total length of roads affected by the program as
executed. Consequently, they were not included in this evaluation.
7.3      Hgyotheses and Basic Data for the Evaluation
7.3.1     Base year
1987 is the base year for all data used in the evaluation of the
strengthening project. In fact, the most recent information on traffic and
vehicle operating costs is for 1987. This also applies to the unit costs of
road network maintenance.
7.3.2     Traffic (see Annex 11)
Data from the 1982 census and the first six months of 1987 have
enabled calculations to be made of traffic per section and growth rates, by
type of vehicle, during the 1977-87 period. As regards future traffic trends,
the periods 1977-82 and 1982-87 have been taken separately, and the minimum
annual rates for 1977-87, 1977-82 and 1982-87 have been used. In contrast to
the 1981/82 assessment, we have adopted rates that differ according to the
type of vehicle in question. Annex 1 presents, by section, average daily
traffic by type of vehicle in 1987, and the growth rate calculated. We have
also indicated traffic rates taken into account for the 1981-82 assessment.
Comparatively large discrepancies appear, essentially because of the
inadequacy and unreliability of the data available at the time. Consequently,
the use of estimates is the reason for these discr;jancies.
7.3.3     Vehicle operatina costs (see Annex 12)
Vehicle operating costs have been adjusted to 1987 levels using the
results of surveys of franchise holders, insurance companies, and suppliers of
spare parts and tires.



r2S-
The following five types of vehicles were used, based on knowledge
of those actually in service:
1. Passenger car: of the 305 or R9 type (6 HP).
2.   Light truck: of the Peugeot 504 or 404 type.
3.   Truck (5 ton): OM - Fiat.
4.   Truck (15 ton or larger): Berliet or Fiat type.
5.   Bus:  intercity type.
The unit costs collected for use in the HDM Model included all
taxes, and were then converted to costs net of tax using the tax rates applied
in 1987.
Annex 12 presents the costs net of tax, together with those for 1981.
The differences in these costs should be noted:
+301 per year for passenger cars, and +21' for heavy vehicles;
+12% per year for tires, and +11% for rf utenance labor costs;
+17f for the wages of driving crews;
+26Z/291 per year for fuel.
These increases, particularly for vehicle purchase and fuel, are
excessively high compared with the overall movement of the price index in
Tunisia, which was 9S per year from 1981 to 1987. The 1986 devaluation of the
dinar partly explains this large increase in vehicle operating costs.
7.3.4     Maintenance costs (see Annex 13)
The costs net of tax of the various maintenance activities were
calculated from DPC's cost accounting for 1986, adjusted to a rate of 92 for
1987 (in line with changes in public works costs).
Annex 13 shows the unit costs calculated.
7.3.5     Maintenance standards
The program was evaluated in light of the following actual
maintenance standards:
Patching: 30% of the cracked surfaced, not exceeding
100 ma/km/year.
Surface dressing: once every 15 years once the area affected by
cracks is greater than 40X.



-26-
Routine maintenance: once every year (i.e. drainage, reprof liog,
etc.).
7.4       Investment (see Annex 15)
Works were performed between 1982 and 1987, depending on the
individual section. In order to evaluate these projects, we determined a
schedule of actual expenditures for each section from 1982 to 1987, and
adjusted them to 1987 factor costs (i.e. net of tax). The inflators for the
public works sector from 1982 to 1987 were used in making these adjustments.
In general, inflation in this period was about 9% per year (Source:
National Statistics Institute). Annex 3 shows the costs of each section as
calculated in 1981 and adjusted to 1987 dinars, together with actual
expenditures at 1987 factor cost.
: The differences between the costs calculated in 1981 and actual
expenditures are acceptable, because those calculations were based on unit
coits and volumes of works which were subsequently considerably changed (as
regards project content, nature of works, etc.).
7.5       Results (see Annex 17)
The results of the economic evaluation of the program were provided
by the EDM Model (version No. 2). The table shows internal rates of return
calculated before and after the program, by section and by lot. tn general,
the economic benefits (IRR) are only marginally different from the 1981/1982
calculations, except for the GP7 section, which has a comparatively low
internal rate of return (9.21), essentially due to its low traffic volume and
the increase in costs. The net benefit (adjustment rate a 201) is D 456
million, and investment totals D 34.25 million at 1987 prices (see Annex 17).
The overall internsl rate of return is above 1002.
8.0       ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF IMPROVED MAINTENANCE
8.1       Increases in the Volume of Maintenance Activities (see Annex 9)
Since 1980, the volume of the main road maintenance activities has
increased in comparison with preceding years.
The following increases took place from 1981 to 1983:
- more than 270 km of surface dressing;
- 119 km of overlays;
- 16,340 km of shoulder reproflilngg
- 413 km of shoulder regraveling.
In addition, the increases in surface dressing and overlays allowed
expenditure on patching to be reduced.



-27-
8.2       Network Condition (see Annex 21)
Assessments of network condition with or without improved routine
and periodic maintenance are based on the following factors:
-    In 1983, the calculations contained in the Road Maintenance Study,
adjusted to allow for the fact that the bump integrator was not
calibrated, and roughness are overestimated by more than 30X.
-    In 1987, the hypothesis that, without rehabilitation and without
maintenance strengthening, network condition would change from good
to average or from average to bad over a period of 15 years.
-    Because the results of the 1987 traffic count were unavailable, the
network condition has been assessed in accordance with 1982
traffic. In the economic calculations, traffic increases are
assumed to be 102 per year.
Average roughness assumed for the three surface conditions are as
follows:
-  2,600 mm/km, for good pavement;
- 3,300 mm/km, for a fair pavement;
- 4,100 mm/km, for bad pavement.
8.3       Vehicle Operating Costs
The additional costs for each of these degrees of roughness,
compared to a refercice quality of 2,000 mm/km, are presented in Annex 14.
The following are the costs per 1000 km, in 1987 dinars:
Roughness       Roughness       Roughness
2,600 mw/km     3,300mm/km      4100 mm/km
D 24.800        D 42.400        D 63.000
8.4       Calculation of Benefits
A comparison of the two scenarios (with or without improvements in
maintenance) shows that the benefits due to reduced vehicle operating costs
(at 1987 prices) are D 4.54 million in 1983 and D 16.40 million in 1987.



-28-
The following table shows annual benefits:
Benefits Due To Reduced Vehicle Operating Costs
Year                   (in millions of 1987 Dinars)
1981                               1.25
1982                               2.75
1983                               4.54
1984                               6.82
1985                               9.52
1986                              12.68
1987                              16.40
1988                              20.74
1989                              25.78
1990                              31.62
8.5       Increases in investment
Annex 1 shows the additional investment in improved maintenance, in
millions of 1987 dinars.
The unit costs of surface dressing, overlays, regraveling and
reprofiling of shoulders are based on the net-of-tax costs of these activities
in 1987, adjusted for additional overheads.
Costs of equipment, studies and training have been distributed
annually, in accordance with procurement dates, and adjusted by 9% per year.
Net-of-tax equipment costs differ by between 622 and 831 from the total
amount, and the average level is 78X. Costs of studies and training are 952
of the total.
8.6       Benefits Due to Improved Road Maintenance (see Annex 19)
The benefits--discounted by 10% and 20%-are D 49.70 million and
D 25.83 million respectively, and the economic rate of return is more than
70%.
A sensitivity analysis consisting of a 402 reduction in vehicle'
operating costs indicates that benefits nevertheless remain large, being
D*20.77 million and D 8.36 million (10% and 20% respectively). The economic
rate of return is still over 30% (see Annex 20).
9.        INSTITUTION BUILDING AND STRENGTHENING OF OPERATIONS
9.1       Because of weaknesses in the organizational resources of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications affecting the application of
transport studies, a transport planning unit was established, initially
attached to the Minister's Office, and subsequently to the Directorate of
Planning. The small number of staff members, although appointed to the unit
well after the appointment of the organization agency, nevertheless
participated in the studies, thus receiving on-the-job training.



-29-
9.2       During the project, progress was made in institution building
through the establishment in 1981 of a training unit. This consisted of a
small staff and began to operate informally, planning and organizing short
courses in Tunisia and abroad. The persistence and dedication of its chief
enabled it to continue operating and finally be officially included in the new
organization structure.
As stated previously, the lack of an organization structure and
annual appropriations considerably hindered the efficient progress of training.
9.3       The Road Maintenance Study, in which many DPC personnel were
actively involved, revitalized DPC by updating important working
documentation, such as the roads inventory, computerization of the network and
equipment, maintenance guides and manuals, etc. Recommendations were
submitted in this study, particularly with respect to equipment and its
maintenance, and training.
9.4       The organization structure. for DPC and its components was prepared
in 1972/73 as a result of recommendations presented as part of the Road
Maintenance Study prepared SCET-BCEOM.
It has been reorganized over recent years, with new and increased
powers being vested in the regions, and without any precise definition of the
division of responsibilities between the regional directorates and the central
authority. The reorganization has disrupted operations because of the lack of
adequate qualified supervisory staff, and the lack of equipment resources.
The Fourth Highway Project has only partly solved these problems.
9.5       DPC has a detailed program for the gathering of traffic accident
data, and has improved its processing and analysis of this information. In
contrast, there has been no progress on the road safety program, which
consists of the installation and replacement of road signs.
9.6       Improvements were made in the volume of road maintenance activities
to be executed. Unfortunately, budget appropriations did not keep pace with
the increase in needs, and road maintenance objectives for the main activities
were not entirely achieved. It should also be noted that an item specifically
for earth road maintenance was included in the government budget, thus
providing an official framework for such maintenance until the new road
classification is issued.
10. CONCLUSION
10.1      Overall, the project achieved its objectives, and works were
performed on 782 km of the 800 km initially planned. Although costs exceeded
those calculated at appraisal, they increased in almost the same proportion as
vehicle operating costs, and the economic rate of return for the
rehabilitation component is 3452.
10.2      Road maintenance has been strengthened over recent years (in
comparison with the 1978-80 period) and this justifies the additional



-30-
investment made under the project. The resulting benefits were calculated by
standard methods, without using the HDM Model (which assumes that all
ancillary works are performed properly). At a rate of 20S, the discounted
benefit is D 25.8 million (at 1987 prices), and the rate of return is 72.432.
10.3      Problems in project execution were due essentially to the lack of
budget appropriations for financing the local contribution, and to the
increase in the dollar exchange rate, which considerably increased the costs
of works and procurement.
10.4      The studies, on-the-job training, and installation of the HDM
program enhanced the resources available for transport planning and
rehabilitation and maintenance works planning.



- 31 -
ANNEXES
[TN: IN THE FOLLQWING TABLES, COMAS REPRESENT DECIMAL
POINTS, AND VICE VERSA, WHILE DATES ARE GIVEN IN THE
FOLLOWING ORDER: DAY, MONTH, YEAR]



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
PAYMENTS AND CONKITMENTS



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
PAYMETS
DISBURSED
US$ Equivalent
Categorv         Amount       D (thousands)*        (tho 8sad)*
i   ( 1 )   i   3R,469       i     1,t59            27,248i
!   ( 2 )    !    6,319  OPEC 2, 970             3,622
,               ; IBRD 1,011            1wSI6
(38)        0,763             0,487             C,658
*~~~~ 4
(SA)   i    0,029             0,029       i      ,044
aininain  $ inininaain ~-- -   - - - -______     -- --
SUBTOTAL                    i 2332           90e &
!TOTAL :    t   46,556       ;    26,282             33,870
C015I0~T
- _   _   _   _   _   _  ______   _  ^
*     Avrailable for Disbursemnt
Cateory          Amount    D                     US$ Equivalent
;    in;inm~~~in       D (thousanda)'       (thousands)*
43,52       '      ,24                1,13
(2A)         6,35              4,                 5,16           '
*f   (B28)        2,17             1,437               14
'   (3)  -, 30                     c,98                1,08
*           0                I.                .                     I
!   (^SA)         C0,04           C,C4                0,05
! TOTA  :        53,38       z   30,63               39,16
_ m~u   m n*T_ * sic. 
'TN: sic.



- 36 -
ANNE 2
PROJECT COST



ANNEX 2
ACTUAL PROJECT COST AND APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(in millions of D)
:_=____=_=_~~~ _                      _   r _    _           _T-   __                                         f8v__* f ee=  fw -    -  S_
r        Actual cost.                        Appraisal Estimate        Actual cost as a percentage of:
--  _ _   _  _          _                 _--     -- -     *ee--      -    -    -    -*t ;
Local     Foreign         Contract  Local    Foreign                  Appraisal          Contract         ;
ComPonents currency t exchange Total,  amount   currency  Exchange  Total         estimate            smount -
Civil'        19,28   i 24,24 ?43,S2 i  34.3    i  15,2   9 12.3  i 27,5            158 %              127 7          !
works       I                                    S                  1        1
Maintenance                                                                                              as
equipment   : 2,35       4 00  6,35:   6,04   j  2,8          4    I  7,2             88
Workshops,*                                   *  !          !       !       !
labs.      !          !       !      !
and signs   I 0,80   *  1,37   2,17      2,0Q   ;   0,5       0,8      1,3           167"               104 
Technical~                                                                    
assistance    0,32      0'.98 i 1,30     I,0                                I                                          a
and                     0 -  ! 0,0.4 ! 0,04 !  0,04)  !  0,2   ! 0.7  ! 0,9  !       148 g      !       128 ,'         !
Training    !         !       !      !           !         e        !
TOTAL       1 22,8 2    30,6  i53,4  c 43,S    1  18,7   ! 18,2  1 36.9  I           145 %      |         123 %        I
.  _=_I_ _:   ___1=_f_  _=  ==__XIX   _I_D=   _S__t a1_5 a  a          _a _at_ _8    1 e___w=:_  _:w_S 



- 38 -
ANNE 3
EXECUTION DATES: CIVIL WORKS



- 39 -
HIGHWAY PROJECT: LOAN 1841-TUN
EXECUTION DATES: PLANNED AND ACTUAL
2 executed
Enterprise                     DATES                           as of
Consultant &   Bid  Approval of             , Completion    planned com-
Comvonent Nationality  Opening Contract  Besinning  Actual   Planned pletion date
Lot 1     SOMATRA-GET!14.2.81    21.7.81  4.9.81   -        !  4.1.83  !   90 %
(Tunisian)
I                                     !
!                                     !
Lot 3     SABAG        14.2.81    8.8.81 17.8.81 13.11.82:   17.11,82    1CO ^
(Tunisian)
I                                     I
lot 4.    EEP        ! 14.2.81  22.8.81 22.9.81  10.9.82!   22.12.82    100 t
(Tunisian)
Milling    TEP                                              i
(Tunisian)  Negotiated  1.3.82 17.5.82 18.7.8Z2   29.7o82          10 c
Lot S     COLAS        20.1.82 | 28.5.82 23.9.82 16.1.84   23.12.82             3 %
(Tunisian)
Lot 6     SABAG        20.1.82   27.4.82  6.5.82  7.4.83    6.8.83            iCO A
(Tunisian)
Lot 7     SABAG        20.1.82   27.4.82  19.5.82 26.t.83   19.8.83           100 .J
(Tunisian)
Lot 8     ETEP         20.1.82   20.7.82   2.8.82               2.8.84          68 -
(Tunisian)
Lot 9     (Tuii a)  20.1.82   20.7.82   10.9.82 5.5.87   10.9.84                65 %
Lot 11    (Tunisan)        -     25.10.84  i.12.84 25S7.86   1.4.86            80 o fl
Lot 12    SABAG
(Tunisian)   3e3.83   29.9.83  21.10.8327.8.84   21.8.84            99



_ 40 -
Lot 13    (TunsS.n)  3.3.83    19.10.83'    0.12.83  _               12.94   cainelled
via                    t..S           .4  700S
COLAS      31.1.87    17.3.   8' 16. 4*47              16,10.87      80e
(Tunisian)
Lot 14    SABAG       3.3.83    14.10.83 i2.10.83  16.10.84 21.8. 2            90 
(Tunisian)
Lot 15                                                  partial   23.1. 85    95 %
S0O4ATRA-GET 3.3.83   17.10.83!  23.10-83 provisiona
(Tunisian)                                   acceptance
3.31.1985.
Lot 16    SONATRA-GET  3.3.83 , 16.4.83 t   6.7.84   25.8.87    6.10.85   50 %
(Tunisian)
GP. 6     SOTUDEF 
(Tunisian)      _       17.7,85    t.8.83      1.1.8t   1.12.86    40 %
30.4.84   7.2.85  13.2.85    90X comp., 13.2.86    ;4o '
Jan. 30 '88
7.6.84  24.1O.84 5.11.84    30.6.85 i 21.6.85        99 ^
MC. 36    SAiAG                                                  ;
(Tunisian)



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
EMCUTION DATES: EQUIPEN



HIGHWAY PROJECT: LOAN 1841-TUN
EXECUTION DATES: PLANNED AND ACTUAL
-                 _________              ~~~~~~~~DATES      _ _ _ _ _ _ _  
Enterprise             B id       ' Approval of         -          Completion
;*t  Cionsultant L !  Opening                Contract  Beginning '         Actual  Planned      1
zcmponent   Nationality                                     
70 rlitsubichli
grders           HA GRIM!!EX       13/6/81       22/10/81  t  22/10/81        i 19/8/82 i 21/3/82  i
I Truck                         1 ;          ;                              1 !         !
equipped                         ;
with boom     i  LE .OTEIIR    i       _         23/10/81  !  27/10/1981       15/1 S 1/82 !  27/2/82  t
and aerial                       !                                                       (4months ,
plaefons                                                    s *                         L. Imp. 1?D)
I Sprayer                       *            1             3 ;                          S
(90001        ;
LEBRERO)
S.Ta.P.            i           3/10/81    1 19/10/1981       17/9/82' 19/12/81. 0
3 Simitrailers                  i            i             i
KING              s.T P.r. '         - '         22/10/81,    23/10/81    1  3/6/82 , 23/1/82.   I
*         ;                 ;            ;                              I       
1lllTrucks   1                                            I
TY  an    ii ;
10/113            S.T.I..      I  9/6/81    I I1/9/81    ,  14/9/81        ! 17/7/82  !14/12/81   t
682113       '                 ;
sa         ';!i!!!
!~ ~~ '.                  '            t                                         * iii



Enterprise   .                                 DATES                       _
Compont       Consultant L         Bid       Approval of                        Completion;
Nationality        Opening     Contract       BeginLning        Actual Planned
j~~ I
6 Tan-I                  I                            
Lears; !                              II                                         II
AORIMU Sno        ! 16/6/81       12/11/81    16/11/81          14/11/83   13/8/82
*                 *            S             *               *           *             S
29ChpSprayera
T I KA .1/6-81             3                          1 .1.        1 .  3  2
@~~             ~      ~      ~      ~~~                   ~     ~      ~     ~~~~~ a  a        
15 chip Sprayers  1        5                              1    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ 14mnh 
.  .        .             .               .           ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Imp
E"t%ItI          "/6/1j3/11/181            Z71/10/81    1 151/6/82 1 27/3/82 
*  I                         I           14~~~~~~~~~~~Smonths +
*                 '                          I               I           !L.!p
! I          !             !               !M
15WTov(LranDa    CTIMU         *   9/6/81    2 3/10/81        27/10/81        4 15/1/82  *  I/3/82
!            !             !               !           !4 months +
I               I t   !      L. Imp. M?I)
8 Iko                 !            iI                               
(1.3 E)   CTIftX         I  16/6/81 !  23/lQ/81         27/10/81        4/5/82 @,24/2/l9S2 
i                 I            *                                         ,  "L. imp . I(?i|)
*!                          !            i             !               !           !



-  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  - _
Enterprise                                    DATES               .    _!
Consultant &           Bid          Approval of                        Completion
component  Nationality            Opening        Contract  Besinning              Actual  Planned
------T--------------    ----------- -------- ----~~ i-------------ir---------- -r-------~---t
I.                                    4/981
35  T knault       I    -        I   4/9/81    *   7/9/81           24/12/81  *   7/12/81  ;
*~~   ~      ~       ~      ~~~                     ~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !3    
Type l2106                                          II
r 3                              t               !                !            !             !
32 Light Trucks 8    Rinat,lt                         11/9/81    I  14/9/81          31/3/82   :  14/1/82 
TypelOOOD .                         III
t Forklift Truck      lou;is Montecy!   /7/81     5/1/8              7/t/82 I          4/9/82       I /S/8
;  *         ;              i                 !            ! (1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120 days + !
i  !  i        !                !            ! L. Imp.
1.~ eoklf  Trc                                                 t oi   lncc!178    //2 5 718  !  !//2I   758    !
A61. No. 1.     j                   i             i                                                      [?!!  
3 Seitrailera    S.T..P.           i3/3/82                                          8//83           3/6/82 
Type T550F3     !!!!                                                                            !!
*                  !                                              S    
i                  a             !              !                 !            I             !
!                  !                            a !               !            ! 
AV.o!                          !              1              !                !            !    ,         !
!          !             t              !                             @             !~~~~  S 
Seiralr                      !             !.S..S -138    !   3//8                       ! 8//3!368 



Enterprise                                  DATES                                     B
Consultant &          Bid         Approval of                       Completion        ;
Component   Nationality         Opening        Contract  Beginning            Actual  Planned
,--               - .         T            r              T               T                        T-
I ii                                                                                  
6 Air Compressors    I.T.C.            20/6/81      5/1/82          1 12/1/82       1/3/83  , (90 days 
itoknotsy                                                                                       L. Imp. 1'?I)
I 'Junior" Marker
(Traceuse)                               11 GREGCkY  1/7/81  5/1/82    |   7/1/82  ;  10/8/82 | (30 days +
*  .        a                            S~~~~~~~~~~L- I p. [ )
12 Markers 
Type KU8?     Electro-Signal !  1/7/81   !  5/1/82    !   7/1/82              1          L3 ;mo. [
9                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.Ip
40 3000 1i!!!!!!
Trucks    4   Habib Rais          1/7/81      5/1/82    !   7/1/82        !  15/11/82,  7/5/82.  !
*           ;                               .              * !                    
*           !                  !.                                   



!               Enterprise                               DATES
Consultant    ~    Bid        Approval of                       Completion
Compoant       NationalitY       Openind       Contract Beainning             Actual Planned
*          t                                             X 
        8                 *             !            !                !           ! *!a
SCUAfJ             S.T.A.P.     I9/6/81l        13/1/82    113/1/82         I25/9/82     13/4/82 
Av. No. I                                           1/3/82       /3/3/82         25//82  ;  3/6/82   ;
Tractors        I    S.T.AaP.                                                              (3 1/382    3//82 a 
SCANIA                                                                                         I       (MP.bs
1  16 Ton CraUe17/1                                  5/1/82         7/1/82 L       31/3/82     7/4/82
(TROSJI)
10 Vhicles         ENULT                        2/7/82         2/7/82         6/6/83      2/11/82
(19)  S    kEN~~~~~~~~~ULT  -  I ~~~~~(4.montbs +
!          I                               * !                            S !        !             !
*  !      ~~~                       ~~*  i  !            !               !            
*          i                                                              a          *        



- a
- o - 0~~_8_  _                              DATE                                    9;8  ---- -"
Enterprise                                DATES
Consultant            Bid        Approval of                     Completion
Cronent  Nationalit             openin       Contract Beiiint              mctpal Plaoed 
;_______________________SPARE8 PRTS. ETC_la__ e
*          --.... .... .... .  .. .. . ..             .. . .. ..       -- -   - - -- - -- -
Various      STAP        ! Negotiated 2   23/9/82                  0 I                      2
makeg                                                                
*                 !           !             f               !          ! 
Maflonag'         *~~ Negotiated             a
"nnag eLOUMS-ONTERAY Neiae              6/6/83        7/6/83             
P            !            !  *         !               !           !*           ! 
Nitsubichi *   !1AGRlOlEX                    14/6/1983      S/6/1983
i*  S.T.A.P*    gNegotiated 1  12/7/1984 1   13/7/1984  I
beault       RENAULT      v oqupinent  1  17/2/1984 I
I                !            !             !              !           !q!
i                !            !             !               !          !            !
I                !            !             !               !          !            a
i                !            !             !               !          !            !
* ~        !            !*       



-  -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -   -   -T2_7_l2ww -_OwC1_C_____ -    -
Enterprise                              DTS________
Consultant &        Bid       Approval of                     Completion
Component  Nationaljty        Opening      Contract Beginning           Actual Planned    X
g ~ -----T---   ~    ~   f - -- -- -----  - - - - - - - - - - - -------T---------T----------- -
Various    S.T.A.P.        Negotiated ! 2/10/84        3/10/84   ;
;makes   ;
~ONFIAT                   II
t  e   LE &OTEUR    I 10 of  I 13/10/1984 I  16/10/84                           e
@   *            eeg~puipment . !eupe
i RICILIER !                         *  !                           
CUAwIoN;   DAU tS           Negotiated   30/10/84        1/11/84   e           1
*   |         !           !             !              !          !           !~~~~~~~~~~*I 
m aes         D A                                                    S  t   _28/6/8S    * 9/6/198S
!         !    a 
Vaios                                  2868 !  !9/!               !           !s!
* ~ ~~~                   ~     ~      ~     ~~             ~     ~~ !  !  !    !!*
i         !                                                                    I            1         



_E_ _e_ _,r_se_ B___B______t__a__                    __o___DE_____               I excuted
Enterprise                 Approval of                     Completion              as of
Comaonent       Conaultant L  Bid           Contract Beainning           Actual  Planned        planned com-
pletion date
- ---------------------t--- ------- t------------- -------------- ---------- ----------- --------------- ---------
Equipment*                                                             III
for 12 + S     EEN1 (TUt: )     17.5.82   e  2.11.82   !   14.2.83    ! 14.12.83! 14.12.83             t 100 %
intersections!                                         e
Couter  !.!  SIT.    .1E1A4.1.8
50 Counters .    LE Wfeift. ;1 eNegotiated *  28.7,81   I    4.9.81        4 12S1;  4.12.81            100 %
(TUH)       !           !             !
sin!                !            !            2               !          !           !
signs |fELECTRO-SICGI,  28.9.81          5.11.82       16.12.82    27.6.84   26.6.83 |    75% for 2073
*                    I                                      ;   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~out of 6000
Guard rail   Tunis 7c;er      7.7.81       2.11.81         3.11-81
!uard rail  !cser                          ! 2!11.81  3t11.81                     ! -    I  -
!                !                         S !            !            
!                I           !             !              S           !           SI
!                !                         I !                        I ! 
!                !                         I !            !           !      
!                !           !             S              !           S           !
!                !           !             !              !           !           !
!     !            !            !               !          !           s~~* 
!                2           !             !              !           !     
!                !           !             !              !            
!                !           S             !              !           !     
!                !           !             !              2           !           9
!                !           !             !              !            



--------- ---------2                .--------------------------
LABORATORY
Enterprise                               DAT                 ______________
Consultant           Bid        Approval of                     Completion
Component  Nationality        Opening       Contract  Beginning           Actual  Planned
------T---------------- I----------- t------------ -------------- ---------- -----------T
LtL!CCITAG ELECTbC-I
L  I :lQUE.(Tl    e Q10.7.81  ; 5.12.81   ; 15.12.81    ; 15.6.82 @ 15.6.82
Lots 2         ( Ul)5.28 
and84  i M.ALtAS ( TUtl    10.7.81        5.1281    15.12.Sl        10.6.82    1 15.6. 82 
Lot 3  ! t.*Ap ( r'ancc ) e  t-1.8.S1    28.12.81  t 16.1. 8    i  16.7.82   16.7.82   j
i 3  P                                     !              !           !            ! Sn
*                !            S            !              !           !            !
i                !            i            !              !           S            !
|~~               ~     ~      ~      ~~~~ !                     * !     
i                !           i             !              !           !            !
!                !           !             S              !           a            !
!                !                                        *    
!                S           !             !              !           !            !
!~~               ~     ~      ~      ~~             ~~ !  * 2    a 
!                !           i             !              !           !            !
*                !           t             !              !           ! 
i                0           !             !              !           !            !
*                                                         I          
i                i           e             !              !           !            !
*                !           !             !              !           !            e
i                !           !             a              !           !           2
*~                       !            !               !          !            !
!                !           !                                        !           ! 



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
MXECUTION DATES: STUDIES



NICUIAY PROJECT:  LOAN 1841-TUN
EXECUTION DATES: PLANNED AND ACTUAL
i  !   *                   DAIES                             I executed
4.  Enterprise      *~ l sid    . Approval of                        Completion                  of d
Consultant        ______z                                                               planned comn-
Component    Matinealit                  Contract  Beginning          Ac-tual   Planned         pletion date
~~~~ t---------------  -----   -------  -- ------  ------  ------ -------------
Migbway    SETEC-                       13.10.80        17.10.80    !  2.6.81       2.6.81             1
Nester     SOTUETE                      130
Plan       (FRANCE                    !       
-TUNISIA)    Negotiated    4             !                !           !            !                          I
Road       SETEC-
Kainten-   SOTUETEC        12.1.82       9
ance situdy FRANCE-        1218          9.8.82        15.11.82        IS.3.85      IS.3.85            too0 
TUJIESIA      ,aS5S.,
Transport;Organisation et                I  
Planning iAmdnattement.    i 13.10.81       20.9.83   i   3.10.83    jJu;iiet 86i   3.10.85              100 %
Study    (FRANCE ).                                                    4           4
!  !     e             !                !           !            !                           i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
!             !            !             !.              t           !             !                          ;
!~~             ~      ~      ~      ~~              ~      ~    ~~~ !  !  !    !!
S                 !            !             !                !           !0 
!.                !                                           *           !.           !                          i
!                 !            !             !                            !            !                          ! 



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
COSTS: WORKS



ANN  6
COSTS: IREABILITATION WORKS
LOt  INItIAL COST       PRICE CHANGES                Lows               TOTAL          IfAIdGE      AMNITIOAL  KS 
,_____-______---- 128A---.-08-----T-----I2Z&I2&2Z2 - -   ---- i--1--2-Z ----- 4  ----- Z           --   -543 --   i
cc  C_esseei 6--6O2j __fbI32J22JIfbfb                                  eeee32eWAfmse                   se !-- -
'--tri--1af" g-af2 -8  4                                                                                     *
_ls2A4& 006JI -j-efW1        ee9* -4-1    i;30r-4-----, -~    .AdZ.es-4
-----j------------------s------------- --------------- 
',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ fi    20f2Q^6---fZ6 Q@ffi---------------- -34---1.23:!8;LM!--4--ls--i-Q--
ts..sZ.... je4*3Z~*!21&2ej&*2Z!&flL.ss...ZZ         . .&86-  122ti..j           1L~
8__                       ZJOaOM&690---       62.6S&                                    !    1Z&9
L1       39i2-A AM8I2a122..---.-.4s. ia. zal-d ---- ;---.1A20ga-68Ls. ------ 2-2--3Ah- sL - --!    z8 ---25----I-L------
.41.- js2422t~1~eeA42z2Zh2! -      .s-- ?22d-22 2                            s4- 9j          - --          ----- 
! _8  ! 2652a Ajfiz OO2--1 U   ^32AIM-0-o- ---620- H-L2Z-8---------4-2-OZ^0A;-zIZI--z-l js_-- 1 1X-6L23--- 
i--2---A64!sML22 6--aQsj--- --A82AUQL321 ----4- -1-524MA 2-LQ-------- -41- 44254*8ff3s21---- i---- UJ s------4-fi--*
tt-ll-z--2oo2a33s49--t--86s6Js Q----loQ0s----2---------- -s-2-2siftJ22 0---- i---- 2,8_____Js5_         4
!13  !  1.721.770         !                  !      _                !  882.218,049    !                  !
,_____ 832.*fff1&261l_,________X____________ _________________ _
! .i..4a3l2d2Ad0Os3    *                     .,..3s2-----[--------- ----- -t-s----------l--t----2-Z-L--------- 1------------------------
t_ss__s_Za_6a02sl82 ------ Z --o5-----s---3l-----  sEz------- -6213s- IM8z22 E!---- i------- -__-----_l----------
45_..  ...3a24a2d2e.j.0  IB&O26 22z52295L2L2-                       li t-62.3JkZ2LILM5 J    I  ---8    Ih
-_L-i__ms30"O MU --- &86__t316Z,2 ___2s523sQ______02&9925I___ __2----- 1-43141AZI ------- !   35m_T Ij..
_IGP 24174.so6 ' 11i3Zsl3  .2ZL ----- 1    2d---2       L5-L24-9----- --                       2    
!MCJ......3 22M522d568   __81A42z-6--- !_     3&42L5----8----- L3j3254jj86- --2&44 --    L2--m-
,C.36;  1.109.960,000   ;                    ;  146.390,910          ; 1.256.350,910    ;        _        ;  11;6S    ,
efee----s--      e--------------------------------e---e------ee -----------
;TOTAL; 34.300.233,987   !4.402.672,451    !4.815.771,692            i43.518.678,129    j    10,12        i  11,07    i
'__C' G C_ G G G =_  S_-_____88-==ws-------------W-   :G-=---    __      w



0
0~~~~~~~~~~
CA
Lw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
I                                                     La
I'



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
PROCUREMNT COSTS:
MAINTENANCE - EQUIPMENT: 2A
LO'r               ENTERPRISE  CONTRACT AMOUNT (D)ACTUAL COST (D))
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
6 Tankcers             AlRItA SUD          174.300,1000     174.300,1000
29 Sprayers            AGR IA SLID     1   100.775 
8 Brooms               C.T.I.N.A.                 Jrk W     i  .128,000
15 Chip Spreaders      C.T..NT.A.           27.460,000       27.480,000
I. Tow Truck     INNAKL               14.573,530 I   14.576530
I Tow Trueck
LOUIS MONTENEY      22.160,000       22.140,000
I. (40T) forklift truck                .
iARttIEX         2.459.650,000   2.731.527,269
I Truck with boos                  '      _ .
and aerial platform     LE POTEUR           23.720,000       23.720,000
! Sprayer
(9000 1)              S.T.A.P.             39.950,000      39."o,ooo
3 Semitrailers *                                        I
L3 Additional (2)cs    .T.A.P.               105.000000       213.335,252
(1)  Incrcee cost due to change in exchange rate.



- 57 _
LOT              ENTERPRISE  CONTRACT AM4OUNT (D) ACTUAL COST (D)!
S AULT            53,000    5. 39 2,300
10 vehicles (R 9)
__-------------T- ---------^r- 
S T I A       ! 2183f.982      2.183*982
177 Trucks Type OM250-1
100 - 682 - N3                         . ............
I.T.C.            49.152         49&152
6 Air Compressors    ! GflEG0L---! 7-712.410
2 GnEGORY     f 7.712,410   w 7.712.410
--------------  .............................o
1 "Junior"' Marker    ,ELECTRO-SIGNAL '   3.8.340   '    38.340
12 Markers           3  ABIB RAIS           23.200   3    23.200
2 SCANIA Tractors    I                i
+ 2 additional       ; S,T.A.P         ;  104.940    U49.799.616       t
AS~~~                  ~ Lih trcI ~~s~~~~~~-~               --i
35 Light trucks                            d *  9
(Type R 2106)        ;RENAULT .12  n                  *    .,d2699S
32 Light Trucks  :                     !232.198,400  ;211.S08,932
(Type 1O0OD)                           I
ItROJSICrane
(16 T)OJ8I Crae          L 'tATERIEL  ; 72.475            72.475
j   T 0 T A L    ;             26.C42.736,340  6.352.063,309
* - -  rocr ea s t  u to chan   i     a            rate.
(4t) Increase cost duie to change in exchange rate.



- 58 -
SPARE PAtTS: 2 B
LOT             ENTERPRISE       CONTRACT AMOUNT (D)    ACU  C
FIAT *       i LE ?lCTEUr.       i   5.0C0i                22S.000
FIAT~~I 
RANOtAG       ' LOUIS I4ONTENAY     100.000                100.000
S  !.AGrlh4EX      i 266.000                 266.000
VARIOUS KanE                                         ceeeecem~ee
*  _   t_---------   ---  *                *                         i
RICIIR-ClM.  !  DA ''.%S          !  45.000                   45.000
VARIOUS    S  !  STAP              !  51.11()                  51.11!
VARIOUS MES       STAP            !  51.11Ci                  51-110         !
*e                  * e ececceejecccecce   ecccec..Qwa
VARIOUS MAZ       STAP                30.430                  30.430
MICIGIA           DAW VAS         i  80.000        i          80Oi
RSNAULT         ftENAULT        i   32.500                  32.S00
TOTAL          *                ! 881.150                  881.1SO
T~~~_____OTALo________  ________v*_ 
.~~~~~ I 



- 59 _
OPERATING EQUIPMENT AND COUNTERS
L i   tOT       SUPPLIER    CONTRACT AMOUNT (V) ACTUAL COST (D)
5O COUNTERS       STA                    '%SO
LB MATERIEL       141.2S0           141.50      ;
*                *              *                 I
EQUIPMEN FOR 12!
INTERSECTIONS,
S ADDITIONAL  !                  !          9                3
INTERSECTIONS   i        E!.      189.34509          215.963,61
ROAD SIGNS    i ELECTRO SIGNAL      109.757     63.713.315
GUARD RAIL*   !                i
TUNIS ACIER  i    59.500  i    59500O
I                I                 I  .                             i
!                ;t                I             I~~~ -t  -         I
.~~~~ .55555 .                               .nnnnnnnn p
TOTAL                          499.852,979   480.426,676
I                I                 I             I                  t
t                I                 a                                I 
(1)  ITcreased cost due to addition of five Intersections.
(2) Lower cost due to reduction in quantity supplied.
0



- 60 -
LABORATORY EQUIPMW
LOT         ! FOUMNISSEUR    ;   ICNTANT         COUT EFFECTIF
I             ,~~~~~ Du :t\%6ncHE
* 0 0  n o e 4 e~~~~~*----- -----    -- - -- - -- - -
1 Soil and rock-
testing equipment    CCT. G          !&251.392,500 !O 251-392,50 0
2 Testing equipment'                            
for hydroullc and      OAL'IAS        A216 7. 2 6,4 2 ito; 267.226,22C   ;
asphaltic concretee                  
*~~~~                              ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !  !    
Tlyzerst   eq!um n t
4; Bum  lat  !a!
f    ydnglMa i  and    DAP L:S        ;b:61.775.250      36.923,6037
(3    Tefoegnechnercos  is              qv  to 1.738,810 eqiaettiD6.75
a tpha hich cuscrtem   uyms   eade   D9.5
' !       !               ~~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* !  ! 
*             |                  !              !                   ! 
4) B         u                        Iatgao IAl; ;                      Io367;;.4,3 
(3) yher  foqrdva  toh^1                         162.400)7881   quwen  oD1327S
to vhich CU8toDU duty  t  be added (D 96.5SI)



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
COSTS: STUDIES AND TRAINING
.



- 62 -
ANNEX  8
COSTS: CONSULTING SERVICES
STUDY      CONSULTANT   CONTRACT                       ACTUAL COST
AM4OUNT     Local currency  Foreign Exchange  Total
(D)            (D)              (D)            (D)
TRANSPORT      0==3!;0. !                     I                              !
COORDINATION !  j-^ _1 444.491,700    ! 114.500 D               329.991,7O0 1 444.z01,700
t   !               !               !              I   ( r ~~  1   C)
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
ROAD                         t
MAINTEQLANCZ                           
VWIC3    SO?:23:          504.700,474    ; 499.2568265    1 244.813,181  1 744.081,445
I
WSTUD                                                          
l[IGE"A                                                       I --^     
HASTER          SO =            6594A55    ! 48-7955359    ;  63.634,51S  X 112.419,875
I  1.015,176,229? 662.553,624    1 638.4399397  11.300.993,021
I              I
t       :             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
TRAINING      !        it C                                   i1  34.768,750
(1)  Excluding an additional D 73.192,732 soon to be approved.



- 63 -
ANNAE 9
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE TRENDS



ANNE X  q
I       t             i                                             W---1-u.---Stbr.... . r. =T.-e .
1 1"98    1 1919    1 19e8       I 198'     I 1982    1 1983    t  1994   1 1985    11986    1 l9g    I
NAIMTFMJaCErACTIVITY                                                              II1I1                                               1
SufacLIeNh dily          I 41kl5I           I~--   ~--   I            I          I          I          I           I         I       I
-Surface dressing        1 4^S -    48Dt0.000  624,708B  |610,000   A590U41        618,958      59,000    580,165             60   I
- Regraveling of shoulders    *                   I
hr)                   I 300      1  304    1 281       1 304,611  1 330 9300 1 235#58  1 343,900  1 3899543  15159524 1 35
-Begraveling of earthrod             IIIIII111
)I5        I  282    1 45195   1 149950  1    -     I19,047 1  29958  1 317,14  1 105220 1 30   ,
Asphaltic concrete (km)    I 9,300   1   11,800 1  10,000 1 479112  I 71,912  1 25,500  1 68,539  , 23,740  1 50             1 61
Patching (.2)             16210000   1 595,000 1 555.419 1 555,558  t 419,576  1 459,419  1 321,089  1 345.341  1 390.471 340.500!
Reprofiling shoulders                                                 1                         11 087  1                    I2  1
(km)         ~I- 6.2t_1  __2E I_  13-jP  I- 11j2  l_1 41jV  J- 12s3,~5_ I    O1-#-Js33-I O2-P    0-613_
Bteprofiling of earth roads   3~1          872       2. 
(rfull width of eartb roas    31@112      3e*742     28459   2B374  1 35,210          47t265     42,135  1 46.344  1 36,5;8 146.700 I
Special operations (km)                         i 950                                                      92       ; 42              I
Signs | 4364 '4675 '17914478  o314 *357    2840  I 2871   4408  12310  t
eSins Iintin             _ I                I  395    3645        1    5     1 6192      1 2082    1 2534    1 2981   1395$    *
-oad .rk --g  ---. 13-.------.*--*                              -     --  ------T----------C-----*-
;t"d Moarking  (km)      137 1       193   0    153                                                    245 ;       182    111 I
(1) Including reprofiling of tracks of economic importance (22.000 km). roads maintained by OPC being
reprofiled two or three times a year. o the waerae.



- 65 -
ANNEX 10
BUDGET: ARTICLE 60



, a        a.   _ _ a a - -- --r a, - _a_t. . 1 __   _   -  . -- - - - -   a -  _
Is,X          j   -          A 3   I      '
Ig mo       a 3,                 3   *             -         ,       
2~~~~~
2                          06
- - - - - -  - --     -  -                  . 
N  - ---                     -         - - - - - -      -. t                  t
._  9          .                 1A .
C ~       ~ -. 3                                ..                     ,,~ 
to ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ .f
- -------                     -         -- O - -
fl  S8         1      M  8      8to    N    o   B      Sg  n
'~    ~     w   0       . _'                   I  *t     f
_ .. _C w           .                        .,
-    -      -     -9 -                      - - - - - --   *   - .
*                       A                et   to
_6n ___
~~~~~~t~~~~ t                                                          It,
to - -- a - a - - - - a a            a a     -   a -a -   a a - - - -     -    -     aaq      l
S*                                                                              I. .*
-J  g%!S   *j o S  t a2o 1O                                                      ,o
a a a a f --  a -    a .             a -  a a a a a a   a
-- -  -   a a a   - -                                l
99
a    a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ,



- 67 -
ANNME 11
TRAFFIC



- 68-
....    A FFIC  By  CLASS  OF  VEHICLE-.........- ....                             .........
I                                                     .                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAFFIC
SECTION                                       2'.TED
*         I: 1981        2 M4              1595              722               204               204              61-86   10
S    GIv        -~~........      .  ........-..   ..........   ......     ..                   ...... .......    
1987,        8668              3497              878              584                404              86-91 : 8
a           XC ~~~vOL     5%                5%                71                12                31
........    ....            .....   ..        .......         ..............                     .....n. ....e..............         .
11981         448               295               134                St                38             81-84 :10
NC24                                       ........ ..e.......e.. ..e ..   ..   . .e .....,  .ecc.aa, i           e     .n
1198          358               416               245                8                 25-I 
18. 8-2 p0,  .e . .   . .n    ..e......e .   .*   .... . ee..   ...........b..Sbe.cce.
U%vOI.       9.52                s                .1               1. 5%             2.3%
~~ Sc~ p...... ~~~c.0....e.... .n ..eS                .  ...... .    .........   ...ee        ....n
1981         2110              1391              430               119               179             81-84:10
t  tI  33E2                    e .      .,e.en.. ... .       a......    ........                 .....e .e.... 
1987         6442              1467              793               203               145               84-91 :8I
7~  (ee5*4.  ,e..easen.e,, ..efeeeeee       ........        . *....e..e.......n..
*           Z~~~~EVOIP   9.92              4.22                10%               1 02            8.92;
. ..........cec.e.                          ......     p.  ............e.eaee.c.
i          ~~~1981       1230              812               366                04105                             81-84 :10
~   nC 37   *e....   ..... . ...e.       . .....e.a.e..   ce..e..ee. .    ,.....ee'           .....00.Cee......eCS
*           1981~       ~ 1850              1220             550               160                157              86.91 : 
.5  ~~~  5.5  *  p . .e.e.e.    pe....ee . p    ,.eC..........e..............
WOL         51                5                 7%                7%                3
1981         714               471               212                41                b0              81-86 : 10
.18           1545             865               1000               75                97               86-91 : 8
1.j5eja            ... ...........ee. ..... e.  e...e... . ..                    ............  ee........ ....... 
E'JOL       7.1%              3.8%              11.42             7.6%             93
1981   ~~~2654            1752              7226225                                              81-86 : 10
NC 3981. ...          ......              ..... .. S.    ...........   ...e......  p............   - p--------.-
1987         1094              452               560                13                52               86-91 : 9
....    ........ .           p   .....   ... .          . ........... .  ..... .. . -------   p.....0.....
UVO1         19.42             2I. 4%            11.3%              5%        1      11.8%
S ~~ . .   C   .eec.ee.e.-e -------- .    .        .e..;.....         .e......         --. .----         ...........
1          ~~~1981       644               427               19                                   54              81-86 s 10
S  RV  511       ....                     .e...... . ... .... ...e..e.e..ee.e..e 
i          ~~~1987       591               961               529,               3T                44                49    
I0-8. 8    he, pe.... ..n .. b.e.e..e.. -                  ----             .........................
V           Z~~~~EVOL    5.41              11.12              71. 4~           4.1%        5       2.5
*          ~~~1981       5047              2023              912        $      261         j     241              81-86 : 10
1987         4600              3035              1370       1      405               390       ,P      84-91 S 8
t  ~. 2ei   ....    .......                 ....... ...........    -------                             .....      ...... .......
lEVOL         5%                5%                5%7
.......         ----.0-----.--                                                   ------..e.e..enece



- 69 -
VEHICLE TYPE
SCTON                         1                  2                   3                  4                  5                    TRAFFIC
TRENDS
*4.           .  , S. .................   ...,,                                              ,,,, ................
$          l.;1s61   1      5'   7              341                :64                  .7                 47               81-O,  IU
lit p      j.* .                        .                                 C*    _-*e*          C.  cot        e............................. @........
la        i;;        *09                    419                195                  12                 1:                94-91:0
.;...............    ------- -- -                   .. ......                          -- .. -- -... -. ---          ..................
Ia :%OL           X                 S.5t               13.21              3.9i                 32
r---n.ee*       |.......                                                                                .....n..........         .  ...........
i       ~         &196    *le2                     434                 2k                  03                  32               01-8b: to
j l  ----  .......  ....... ........ ..............  .............                                   ..... ..... ........... .................
&      PK      | i;a;           It42                1042               820                  9                  30                94-91    3
PR  ~  ~     ~     14.4               61                                       9         I                        81-84  : I0
....       .......                 .e.*..  . . .        ..   .          ... ... ..                     ..      . .... . ......
-- ...........                 8 ...  .......                                                                            ...... ..............  ..............   ...........  .  
l            I049               02                 *1:                  a7                  60        I    U-04  1
i              j.......-.     -------.  .-             -  -                            ...........               ..............  .........
PE  14119          ta7                 4792.1                                             j                           490 1:
34 .. ....  -----                         - . ....    ..                      ....          .          ...... ..... ........ ........
.......  ~6.....                                                                                                                  . . .1   .......3.7
i   ..ne.i               5'E*;x   1:;          i.eee..      e    cece      ..          ,.e     .    .            . 1: .
i                1901 3c0 ;217                                           4                 2                  21               OleOab : 10
i    NC'   133.  .....           ....... .  .   .  ....  ..  ..  ..............   .    ... e..  . ..   .  ..............      .   ...... .   . .
PKi        h8                5                 4101                95                 24471-91 : I
__ _~~~~-------    ........ ... __...  ........... ... ....... . ......... _. .... ._.* ......._._e
-  ,  P         ;20        .13.7%    1381                         161 101                                                 10
I        ..                        .       ... ... .--                                                        ----- -        -.- . .. -
I ^ ~ 0 ;11t47                     4201                SS4                 142                 *1               01-0  I 10
34N   9,4|0t   ee.   . .............   . .. .     .         ........ ........ ...... .........._ ........ . ...
.' PK     Lt';S1        lS.1:                l::               l2.2                lOt2                5a
s.         . * .  ...       .......... .    ..........   . ........                         ....                               .. ..... . ...
j 1q              7 1      4190 St                     130C               1742                 St6              6    4:1
. .      .  .          . 1 1              -   .. .......           .   . ...........  . -.... .  ce.-- -.-.             .    ...- -. __-
*      Px        I  SI ?         2245              2404                34s0               047               I2S                  64- : to
i     -1.t  . . .. ------                    - ---.. ... - ------. . . . ...... -   ------   - ------   -.  -  .....    _......_. 
;              ; iOl            452397                                 1)4193                               5;6                 Il-l.: I  1
i-02           ---- $--           -----        ....... ......____ ._......                                                        . .. . _...
;~~~~~    ~~~~                              St                                   1;9                  31'''   4iS80J**ttl
.... . .......ce  5.                                                                  ec.
;~~~~------ -S----------  ._. ._..... ..        ...  F..... . .
P 6*1                           100002             S404                340                82  :                                  3-91,  I
* .R -116   1- ----- -                             -                                                I. .   ....-   ..............    .   . ;
I   "-~I %E..! 
6p zIS. S   *io ;  }       SS52               I2t                  48                                    A 3U
PK i       ......      .. ..           ..                   .... . c.....                           ... .  .     .....   .............
s       4       IE'1  |         11845               3524               c28.          1004                                  1 t:    -94:0
........    .....I    ... .e. ...             cn e    ..                       ........ ...nc.4   be .c       ec.... .........
4  4   | zial  !        st:94               2Sl0               1 4                -I                 5t 0              aziO io
if            ...    .  .......              .-- 1-.------------.----.---..--  .............. ...............F 
tk                         100                 6 84  Iel4:i5                                               BOB ;  la)     oa |  s      7
.eaeeec....eL. ~ ~~~.  ...... ........  .............e.ec.cce 
-----  -        ------....                                         .......----... -----i --  - -- -  - ------------S-- -----------------
|   1 ;7il  |     11845                :S2*        |      :..6 &,             6i)J               840            8    -61*    IQ 1
Go I a       S        F         -           .......  - -----------       ..... -----      . ....   . ---    .....          ...... . ......L-    ----
;. PK          18        1 00 lS                  4I                lSs         |      107S               740                 1 9-qtt  
t  8 tvxL  5S                      S   L  7~~~~~~~~~t  L, nI t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .........                                          ........ *            -      ---    *---- .------*------.-_-.*-----.-



*   70 -
MUICLI TYPE
SECTION                      I                 2                 3                 4                 5                   TRAFFIC
TRMNDS
togs       9P              ~~~~~~2317         157723-410
1190   ~~~ 10000  4914            1750  ~~~~1144                       107               14-91:
to        .q.c      a....eee...   . e..                     -----------.l.ece..c.c.e                    cc.
pg  190          100lO*             959*              2400o             1403               1105              94-917
)   ~.4  ,..ecc 5...-------.e - ---       ...a. .e..  z.e...........  .......ee                .  .n.ce .          ... ...... .
19 lss   L -   .            . . ..............I                                                ............,
~~~ ~Im                  1 qj          -ui0o:1
ee . ............        . .. ...s . .  p.....~*t.C-4*,19ce                                            n a
5                  *q~~~~e    A5 ..                                                 5              :
207-Z40                                         -----                      .............
-----       ----                        ...c...       .......     .......I.        .c ..*              eccne.e
S p 3    1...    *           .. . .. ........                  ...........           c.....e...
PK4   Ig Wa               6.52               555               :04                                   59               34-93: 7
P  3                11.92             ~~~~~~~~~~I-                        :44
------                      ...........aCc   .....       e                                                                      .......e   ,e......e
4345-4=$5  1Ws                                #04                                                     Ti                b-   :
I ~~$Ci~~  *.4~          5.32               3?b&&                        I464
S  718  272        149                19                32        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 31-34 0
r        s   N~~IC  5       .... .. ------ - ----   -  -.ce.       C --------.           ,e e....e         .    .  ....    ...        .      ......
ft P         176           9a                430               t8ot1                                 4         3      3.~:
I  S0~~4-70  ,e ..    c ....... c...                        ..............e................
~~E'J0L  4.~~          9.92                     zt44
rceqec...   eceec ..e.aee.ce.,   ...ec.eae.    cccac. eb.........       .  ..... ....----------
~~II  .44              533~ . . ..  .1.........  .......
Pk42-43                                                           .o       I       , i       C                 I       6
g5~ ~37  acc...  ....aaccccec  ac .c.c ..c.......                                                   ................
~ ~ ~ffII!I 31:zz~~~~~- ::r,.r.--:-u--:--
.  ......                    .........ecc..... ,......  .
...  3   cc    ~     ~    ~     .   . .  ........
a   p                                                    I
I  42..-3   9 ~*~* 3tc.......e.bb    .ce.ee ..  ........e.......c........e......  b ..ae .c..cec..             .        c
..............~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4j.                               ~          I..              49.              .



- 71-
VEHICLE' typE
sUCUOV                          1                   2                   3                  4                    5                     TRAFFIC
TRENDS
* ~~~~~~~I3l  .-55    ~        ~ ~ ~~.......  ........  .....                                                   .............
9  *n..4  ~~~~O****na.S..  .....***.fl*                                          ***~~~~~~... ........
1  93.  *147                                                                                                     S       .~~~~~0M2.31
flh  b...j           . ...  .j.c........ O                 .      ..                          ............,. '  -. .......
I       11                1173                  35                 1*l                  58                p76.!-
12*.4-150.Z    *.. 9 .......-..   ---------   **e.O0~~................
-        --     ------         .     ......           .          *
*                   4~~~~~..L2                      . .. *           ..........                         ..........                     -----
f             4~~~~061       U.4                 8.3                                     lot~                   : 
4  aOl                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~349                            55 ~~~~~~~~~~ 1     SI          13 ------:1 ...
-                                     1                                       4                   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 1  69    
S. it                        8%~~                              ~~~~~ I  41: 
---------                                                    -  --     --.........  . ..                              -4
4  .)-21   ~        L_....... *                    .... .......                  I.......-..------
...      ...       .      ~         ~         ~~~~~..I ....     .......  . .~....       - -------
i1                 1%0                 :S$                   17         1                            6   a      I       3491.: 1
lad-lu.                                ...............       .........                           ..      . .....      1    . ........r
...  ...        .....    ........ .. .              ......                              ..3 .   . ....      3.... .....
190!  74                 501~~~~ L90                                          I         7               at-so   10
GPi"  ----   ........'   ......                                                                                                 ......
5:,)i                        Ia 069                                                      o                 hl
I.4~~~--                  ...I-----  ----------- ~.*~.                             .. -.      ....             .....            ........
I  ~~~~ao  f                                     53 .41.      j        .le 1                                   g 
.          ,     . 0**~~~~~~~~~  .        ...~~~~   .       ....       ...4         ..      ..  . . ..        ...
Pk                    "~I                                                                               .0                  b9
I      ~              j      '.7......                               a;--  ---     ------  --                   -  ---
1937     117013                                  .7   I 0a                                           I        4.;I
. ..          .       ..................  ...              .........--I  .........
fK       4411,  -            407                  la;~            I      .:        I        ,: 
. . ......  ............  ............. -                                          *-------  ..........,.........
14,41. ~ ~    ~       ~ ~ ~ 5IS7149:
.~~ ~   F  ~~  -    4.71    ,      4.51        *~~~L...:L...~ .. .......  -----------



-72 -
EI!CLZ TYPE
SECTION                    1                 2                3                 4~               5                   TRAffIC
TRENDS
~~Ua  ;vu'~~~~*.  11u              I10                                 :s. 13          31-,, :
4   ~~~~    ..a.....*4   ~~~~~~~~~                       ------    ............
5   K 3~~~  ..  .*ee..~ .  .  .   .  . ...           l       .        ............                4'
*  ~~~   I117        7'1.144           7v1%              44                16        I       t "lb-4:
729      .......c   *..~~~~.......             .......        .......   ...................
NE    p. .           .....n........    .....C.. 4   4..              *.....    ..           ..........
*               ........e~~~~~~.   ......... .       ....         P.        0C        ** f...*    .........
j                         i75              711 810k.  t2.11                                      1% 
p..440efl.*l4  *~*teef~fl~......... i......                                        ... a..    ..
4                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19
I                          .e.....       ..4....4   nt*~~~~~~~~~~*~~*  ...    ....nc.  o.....
....    P.e4C4   **~~~~~~.........               ..........4    e ...e
j                       Ii              10.32             14.3~~A*         5.32              In5~
PK         1I   1        51               15                                                   1' tie43
......  ..............  ..... . .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43             .        *...
0..        ........... e-------                                                             ............4.O . .........
I            1V3t.        72;              10.42                                                               OU.19ft   j
et..0.Se.4   *.4*.e...c.c...e.     e.... .. ...   ..e..........   . ..... ..   ........3 
*    4~~~~.......  ....                .e.O....          ee..e..    ...c.f... .......    
:47 0N?                                  174                                  24            1110e.141 :1 i
~~ ?.54     ....1..S          .n.. ..   ne.c..    cc...                   .... ...... ... .........
*JVOL  5.21           ~~~9.4            4.72              1.421I                                            .
*  .3 4 .  C4c..CcCSC4   *C*                            c~~~~~. .*......*cc.....               . ...........
*  9       -                                                        4                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......   ..........
*  sce.    1Cc..4.....  ~~..e...... . .          c. ...c.e ..    ........ ... ..........         ...----------



- 73 -
ANNEX 12
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS



- 74 -
ANMt 12
(M PIER YEAR)
CATEG0O R              1     |    2       |    3      1    4      1     5     | DIARKS:t 
Price        198t |   via   |   3093   |   2220   |  22468   |  26926   I-- Pt * -3O
of                                    ---_----_-___________          _------  -V *-21.5
vehicle       1987 |  10121   |   9967         15908   |  63173   |  58000          HV * +14
Price       M1981     12,"    I  22.39   I  12    I    167    I    167
of one                               ---__   ---_-------_----________________ _12
tire         M 1967     2.5       45.S    I  192.3    I  323.4   I  302.2
Labor        1961    i 1.5 S       1,5       i 1.5 S        1.S    |    1.5
(0   per    _                                                     -  ----------- _11
hour)       197       3,1         3,1    I   3.1    I   3.1    I   3.1
-Vlehicle cre 1 1981       a 0   I  0.208   I   1.216        1.216   I   1,945
(  per     j---------- -       ---1-----_-----_---- - -
hour)        19871 0         10.57    13,15 1             4.7    I   6.4
.  Overhead  |119811    12    |    12     |    12      |    12     |    12
3X)  IIs               s    --is__-          f
3 198 1    1S |   1$        15     I   1S       I    15
Interest   M19011    10       1    10     I   10       I   10      I    10
principal)  1197|    10        |    10     |   10      |    10      |    10
Fuel     ! 190l 1  0,0607  1  o.oss    01o. $       1asoline +29
(o per     -------t--_          U-    -       L---    _____--------   Oiesel +26.3
liter)     190?     0.268       0.223       0.835                            JLubricants +7
(Gasol 1ne) IDiesel)  '(Lubricants'
Vehicle    119811    3,2    I    2        I   2.2    I.   2        I    37
occupancy   _                 ___3______ _ __   L
1967 1    3.36   I   2.35   I.    2      I    2       I    37
Time value    1911    0.2    I   0.2    I    0          1    0 a         0,2           3
( per       __         0.23___0.23_____ _____                                     (in real
hour)       1907     0023   | 023   |023                                           terms)
Annual       I            I                                                      I
distance (M)j 1987 I  18000   I  35000   1  60000   1  50000   1  65000   1
VehicjI ~ ~ -f~l- efcf~
life                     10            8    |                        I |    S 
Annual hours |      I           I            I           I           I           I
oPerte       I 19671      600        1580        2600        2400         2000
open     ned                       f                       f_m__ _       _       _       



- 75 -
ANNX 13
COSTS OF MAINTENACE OPERATIONS



- 76 -
ANNEX 13
UNIT COSTS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
(NET-OF-TAXES: ECONOMIC COSTS)
|Uit Cost |Unit Cost  2 Difference
'per year
Potholes        |          |
(D per m2)      |   2,09        3,76   i     +tO3
Patching        I           I           I
(D per m')     |   0,29   |   0,59   |    +12.6
Coated Material
(D per M3,         27,2          105         +25.25
spread)
Rehabilitation  I           l
(D / Km    7040                10400           6.7
Routine         l           l       0
Maintomenac        76 s9    |      80 



- 77 -
ANNME 14
VEHICLE OPERATING COST DIFFERENCES



- 78 -
ANN= 14
VEHICLE OPEIATING COST DIFFERENCES BAS1D ON gouGIDEsb. flOR 2.000 mm/Ku
(in 1987 Dinars. fo 1.000 KM)
aoumss
V1C11 TIP           s       1600 aI/A   3300 n9       410O L/
1            76.5        20,7         35,1          51,4
2             9,0        31,6         53,7          78,6
3             8,0        16,0         27,6          51,0
4             3,5        60,4        103,0        lS5,O
5             3,0        90,1        162,0         242,0
TOTAL          100,0       24,8         42,4         63,0



- 79 -
ANNEX 15
COSTS: REHABILITATION PROJECTS



- 80 -
I'TION ! TYPE  LENGTH  COST IN MILLIONS OF 1987 DT
SECTION   OF    (KM)      APPRAISAL       ACTUAL     DIFFERENCE
WORK               (1981)       (1987)
G:10  1S4W  I6    I        0,25      I 0,369    I +461
MC 261 fiI 
18.8-32 | S.W    13,2       0,506         0,69          +361
MC 33E2 |     l        l              l             l
0-5.4  I S   I  5,4  j    0,124      I   0,181         + +46X
2.8-5.6 I S   I  2,8  I    0,063      1   0,109    I   +731
MC. 391i      llll
1.5-18  IS.W  I16,5  I      0,48      I 0,55  -I +152
0-3   J S+W  1  3    I    0,09      I   0,131    I   +46X
aVE 5111      I l                     I lI
0-8.8 j1 8+41    8,8  I    0,245     I   0,328    I   +34%
0.E25-    S      18I         ,62      I 0,09       1    452
29-4'2   S+W  I 13    I    0,201     I   0,191    I    -52
O-10.  S+W  1 10,5  I    0,252       I   0,239    I    -52
0-13    |+1  | 13    |    0,287      |   0,274    |  -4.52



- 81 -
TYPE  LENGTH   COST IN MILLIONS OF 1987 DT
SECTION    OF    (KM)        APPRAISAL       ACTUAL      DIFFERENCE
WORK                 (1981)        (1987)
36.5.48.71  S   1 12.2  |    0,361       |   0,563         + .561
MC 133                                  II
48.7-66 I 8       17.3  I     0,396     I 04145            + 882
GP I    0 ver|l|l
7-10.2 1 lay 1  3.2  1    0,215            0,234         +8.82
98.2-1161 lay 1 17.8  1    0,498        1   0,304    1   -391
GP 1 | Over |          l                             I
119.3-1231 lay |  4           0,188          0,068          -64S
GP8   | Over I         l               l
3.2-5.9   lay      2.7        0,134          0,086         -361
GP 9   I OerIIII
0.8-3.2 | lay |  2.4  |    0,097             0,304        +2131
G-4 1   lay 1  4    I    0,211         I   0,134    1   -361
MC 135 | Over          I l                           I
0-6.1  I lay I  6.1  I    0,3               0,435    j   +46S
l      I        I               l             I



- 82
I  TYPE  LENGTH   COST IN MILLIONS OF 1987 DT
SECTION    OF    (KM)      APPRUSAL        ACTA        DIFFERENCE
~~~WORK                     (1981)        (1987)
207-240 |SW      32          2,01           1,868          -7%
GP 3      .                   ,0             ,6             f
208-238 | S   | 30             ,204         1,49          +24
GP 31                                   
43o.5-453i W   I23    I       0,647      I 0,4              -381
MC 116                 II
50.4-70   S+8W    19.6  I     1,07      1 0,714    I -331
27.8-42.61 SVW  1 14.8  1    0,686       1   0,928    I   +351
42.6-53 1 SW  1 10.4  1    0,488        1   0,66      1  +35.2
I      I       I                I            I
l     l        l*              l             I
___-1                 I1 



- 83 -
TYPE  LENGTH   COST IN MILLIONS OF 1987 DT
SECTION    OF      (KM)     APPRAISAL       ACTUAL      DIFFERENCE
WORK                (1981)        (1987)
53.5-99.4 | SIW  | 45.9  |      252       | 3283            +31
99.4-120.41 S+W  1 21    1    1,268       1   1,625    !   +23%
120.4-150. 21 SW  1 29.8  1    1,8         1   2,305    I  .27.71
150. 2-171 I S.W  I 20.8  I    1,21       I   1,535    I   +2
M4C 52         I                             1,0      I
0-27    jS.V  I 27    I    0,66           11,309           +97
168-186  I S   I 18    I    0,768        I   1,518        +97.4X
0  2-92           10    I    0,242      I   0,418    I   +731
92-133  I W   I 41    j    1,02              1,022           o 
I      l        l               l             I
I      l        l               l             I



- 84 -
TYPE  LENGTH   COST IN MILLIONS OF 1987 DT
SECTION    OF       (Km)      APPRAISAL       ACTUAL      DIFFERENCE
WORK                  (1981)        (1987)
M4c82         I                89             90
99-129.41  W      30,4        0,899          Og              0%
129.4-1571 W   | 27,6  |    0,979         1   0,97           -1%
5G-P14 19         54    1     2,68            1,793        -33.31
4-15   1 S       11    1    0,564       I   0,406    I  -282
7-20   | S.W  | 13    |    2,294        |   1,69      |  -26X
MC 391                                   
21-27  I S+W  I  6    j    0,317             0,251        -21S
0VE      S    19       1     1,05       1 0,782    1-25 .51
GP 3I                                   II
32.8-58 .81  W   1 26    1    1,502       1   0,575         -622
0-7.5      W      7,5        0,322      |   0,804    | +1501
75-I475   W   1 40    1    2,012                       l 0,92  -56.41



- 85 -
ANNEX 16
INVESTMENT INCREASES RESULTING FROM
TEE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT



- 86 -
ICES   LN IVIE   IN ROAD TAINTM N   (NET 0F TAX)
(in millions of 1987 dinars)
Equipment,
Surface              Shoulder      Shoulder       Subtotal$    studies and
dressiM   Overlay   rearavelion   reprofilina   maintenance   training         Total
1981      0,296     1,358       0,008          0,078          1,74         0,10         1,84
1982      0,231     2,498       0,006          0,072          2,81         4,9b         7,75
1983      0,325     0,558       0,006          0,094          0,98         4,03         5,01
1984      0,254     2,150       0,00O          0,049          2,46          43          3,89
1965      0,199     0,603       0,073          0,200          1,08         0,33         1,41
1986      0,080     1,465       0,172          0,039          1,76         0,35         2,11
1987      0,283     1,872       0,049          0,040          2,24            -         2,24
1988                                                                                    2,24
99                                                                                      2,24
1990                                                                                    2,24
It is .ssu.d that investmeNt in road umintenance for 1988, 1989 and 1990
will remain gt the 1987 level.



- 87 -
ANNEX 17
RATE OF RETURN, BY SECTION



- 88 -
RESULTS OF EVALUATION
I         I                 .        OF    ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
LOT        ROAD      SECTION    LENGTH   TOTAL   EVALUATION   PROJECTION
~~~~~~~~~~~~(KM)    (Km)                     (M            M 2
GP.10      6-12          6      0,77 |   21,40        168,20
MC.26    18,8-32      13,2      1,69 1   69,30         30,10
MC.33 E2    0-5,4        5,4      0,69       )500       440,00
MC.37    2,8-5,6       2,8      0,36     257,70       148,80
LOT 1    MC.39    1,5-18        16,5      2,12     144,00        69,20
MC.39 ES     0-3         3        0,38     141,40       451,20
RV.l511    0-8,8        8,8      1,13      97,70        64,70
RVE.541    0,2-2        1,8      0,23       >500       500,00
MC.87     29-42       13        1,67     144,80       111,90
mO.90     0-10,5      10,5      1,35     247,00       114,80  :
LOT 3    MC.93       0-6
8-13       11        1,41     307,00        87,20  9
MC.133   36,5-48,7    12,2       1,56     178,10
48,7-60     17,3      2,22     183,50        38,50
GP.l      7-10,2       3,2      0,41   VERY HIGH       >500
CP.1     98,2-116
119,3-123,3   21,8      2,80   VERY HIGH       >500
LOT 4    GP.5        0-5         5        0,64   VERY HIGH       >498
GP.8      3,2-5,9      2,7      0,35   VERY HIGH       >SOo
GP.9     0,8-3,2       2,4      0,31   VERY RIGH       >500
GL.10      0-4         4        0,51   VERY HIGR       >500
MC.135     0-6,1        6,1      0,78   VERY HrGH       >500
LOT 5 |  GP.1   | 207-240       33     | 4,23 |  287,20   |  150,00
LOT 6 I MC.116    50,4-70  I  19,6   I 2,51 I   61,00            15,00
M NC.117  I 27,8-53  I  25,2   I 3,24 I   70,00             > 27
LOT 7    GP.3      208-238      30        3,85      85,00        23,30
430,5-453,5   23        2,95     147,00     Widened to
|   |     !             ~~~~~~7m :029,1
53,5-99                         37,00
LOTS                99-120                          41,10
8 & 9    GP.5      120-150                          49,80        31,50
150-171                         59,40



- 89 -
RESULTS OF EVALUATION
(Continued)
I                                j % OF   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
ILOT    ROAD      SECTION     LENGTH   TOTAL  SVALUATION   PROJECTION
I                  ~~~~~~(KM)  MA MO(
LOT      MC.52       0-27       27        3,46      57,40       139,60
'11    GP.7    168-183,6
184,3-186     17,3     2,22       9,20        41,20
LOT                 82-92                          163,00       185,50
12    GP.13      92-125      51        6,54                  126,20
125-133                        120,00        56,40
LOT   |  MC.82  | 09e12-,4 |           I            20g00        75,70
13 I           129,4-157 I  58      I 7,44      273,00       106,40
LOT 141  GP.19  1  50-104  1  54       1 6,93 1   30,00   1   38,00
MC.34       4-7         3       0,39                  277,10
8,2-15        6,8     0,87   VERY SIGN       69,80
LOT 15   MC.36       7-10                                       122,50
10-20       13       1,67     120,00       182,00
MC.39      21-27       6        0,77    495,60        104,40
RVE.533     0-9          9       1,15     456,00        28,50
-  GP.3    32,8-58,8    26          3,34     432,10   I  109,30.
LOT   |  GP.4       0-7,5                           89,30
16              7,5-47,5    47,5       6,09     300,40         >60
|    | ~GP .6   | 0-16                  
22-41   |  35        4 4,49                 NEW
NONE
|  |MC.33  | 0,2-7,6  |   7,4   | 0,95                   PROJECTS
I  MC.36  I           I   3,6   I 0,46



- 90 -
ANNEX 18
BENEFITS: REHABILITATION



AMl 18: aECOnc  RATE Oy U1TURN 014 THE  MEUABILITATION COMPONENT
IuvestDSt Costs                    Benefits              Net Benefits       Cumulative Benefits
(Construction, maintenance)                                                  10, 
i?87             21 472                           0                ..211472        ...,         _      21,5
6,853                       78l177                71,313           64,8              S9,4
19S9              1 124                       83,207                S27 207          67t 9             57 1
1990              D 158                       86 890                86 89o           65,3             50 13
1991              07413 8a8887                                      88 474          60  4              42j7
1992      _        1,183                     1C6 467               10t?65c           66.PS             43?3
199E3       _C0904                           114;702               115 6o6           65,3              38j7
199-4     _         18240                    121)637               122 877           63,1              34 3
19S5            -0,99                        133,e375              134 374      . 627                  31Z3
1996            - 1,145                      139,305               1409450           59;,6             27 2
1997            - O,IPS                      159032                159Z220          61 4               Spt7
0T8O            - 04S90                      183406                184 296          6.4  6             24 8
~1o9sl     _        iIIJ48                   197,962               199YIto1         63.A               2213
2CO       _         12ZI4                   217;361               218/575          63f3               2034
iIc  - Z57 ./c = 239 c?
NB  3 807,1         l !.0    U   - 456 t:o.D
U.  : 345 .



- 92 -
ANNU 19
BENEFITS: IMPROVEMENTS IN HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
_



- 93 -
ANNEX 19
IMPROVED MAINTENANCE:  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
(in millions of 1987 dinars)
Benefit from
Additional  Improved              ~~Discount       Discount
Investment    Maintenance        Benefit       atsoun          at t02
1931          1,84          1,25          - 0.59    -   0.59           - 0S9
1982          7,75          2,75          - S        -   4.55          - 4,17
1983          5,01          4,54          - 0,47    -   0.39           - 0,33
1984          3,89          6,82            2,93          2,20           1,70
1985          1,41          9,52             8.11         5.54           3.91
1986          2,11        12,68           .1057          6,56           4.25
1087          2.24        16,400          14. 16          8              4,74
1988          2,24        20,74            18,50          9,4.           5.16
1989           2,24        25,78            23,54         10,98           5,47
1990          2,24       31,62             29, 38        12,46           5,69
Discounted benefit -           Discounted benefit
D49,70 million                 D25,83 million
B/C - 68X                      B/C a 682
IRR - 72.432



- 94 -
ANNEX 20
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS:
IMROVED ROAD MAINTENANCE



- 95 -
ANNEX 20
IMPROVED MAINTENANCE: ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
(-402 ON BENEFITS)
Benefit
from
Additional    Improved                           Discounted at:
Investment    Maintenance    Benefit        102      15%     201
1981      1.84            0,75        - 1,09    - 1,09 -  1,09  - 1.09
1982      7.75            1,6S        - 6,1       - 5SS -  5.30  - 5,o0
1983      5,01            2,72        - 2,29      - 1.89  -  1.73 - 1,59
1984      3.89            4,09          0,2         0.15     0.13   0,12
1985       1,41           5,71          4,30        2,94      2,46    2,07
t986       2.11           7761          S'S         3.42      2,73   2,21
1987       2.24           9,84          7.6         4,29      3,29   2,55
0e88       2,24         12,44           10,20       5,23      3,83   3,85
1989       2,24          15,47          13,23       6,17      4,32   3.08
1990       2.24          18,97          16,73       7.16      4,76   3,24
so%             1 s                    20
Benefit X      Benefit -       Benefit -
D20,77 million D13,4 million  D3,36 million
B/C - 41S      B/C a 411       B/C a 412
IRR = 37,001



- 96 -
ANNME 21
NETWORK CONDITI



- 97 _
NETWOiK CONDITION IN 1979
Traffic     Average Traffic        Good          Fair           Bad
1972           1977           R=2600a/km   Rm3300iufk Rk 4Im/j            TOTAL
A) 5         3^9                  ;3C           i  11 %                   I
25CC   3500        3633                158            72          10          240
ISCC - 2500        242C                 335         13           so          61C
750 - IsCC        1452                 667          623         210         13CC
SCC- 750           660                 89s          S2S         260         I9SC
150 - s5e          36C                1043 3107                  350         2487
S0  150          120                 340           37S         465 SC
-  3768      3252        13,2         S40@



- 98 -
NETWORK CONDITION IN 1983, WITROUT REHABILITATION
AND WITH STRENGTIENING OF MAINTENANCE
Traffic                            Good         Fair           Bd
1982      Average Traffic        R=2600       Ru3300         R=4100      TOTAL
3500o          6728                :95         360            115          370
.2500 - 35O         3342                45C         16C              sC          66C
15CC - :5CO         z1.:o               470          20             120          910
750 - 25^0         I082               1570         74C             330         2640
500 - 75C           618                875         520             115         1510
150 - 500          328                 780       l0co              240         2020
s-o  150          116                  40                          20           90
4530        3130            990         87CC
Without strengthening
3500           672S                 55         30            125           870
2500 - 3500        3342                420         iSO              60          660
1500 - 25CO        2120                440         3040                         910
750 - 15C0        1082               1550         750             340         2640
500 - 750          618                5ss         530             125         1510
150 - SO          325                760        1010             250         202C
5^ - 150          116                  0          30   *                       90
TOTAL.                             4410        3230          1060          8700



99 -
ACTUAL NETWORK CONDITION IN 1983
Traffic    Averap Traffic          Good         Fair           la
1982           1982           R-26000/KRm   R3300_/1tm   Rm  0OQ/km    TOTAL
3500             67z8          450           360            60            S70
2SO  - 3500          3342          460            160          40             660
1sco - 2500          2120           S10           320           80            n1o
750  - 1500          1082          1700           740          200           Z640
500  -  750           618           890           520          1C0           1510
5SO  -  SO            325          780          IVOC          240           2C.
so  -  150            116          .40            30           20             90
TOU3Q         313Q          740          S700



- 100 -
NETWORK CONDITION IN 1987, WITHOUT REKABILITATION
OR STRENGTHENING OF MAINTENANCE
Traffic     Average Traffic         Good         Fair            Bad
1982           1982           R-2600mm/Km   R=3300mm/Km   R=4100mm/km    TOTAL
3500           6672S            26             380           430           870
2500 - 35C0         3342           310            240            110          660
150C  - 250C        2120           320                           210          91C
750 - 1500        1082           1130            960            550         264C
500 - 750           618           630            620            2601        151
150 - 500           325           560            9440          ;20          12C
50 -15SO           116             20            30             40           90
TOTAL                             3230           3;50         1920         S700
With strengthening
35C0             6728            36             300         210          S70
2500 - 3500           3342            360           210            O0         660
S500 - 2500           2120            360           390           1n0         910
750 - 1500           1082           1230           930          4SO        264C
500 -'750             618            730           60O           1S0       1510
150 - 50C            325            660            900          .460       202O
5s  - 150           116              30            30          30           90
TOTA  37On              - 03     1e1  --  7C
TOTAL                            3730          3360         1610        3700



- 101 -
ACTUAL NETWORK CONDITION IN 1987
Traffic      Average Traffic          Good          Fair             Bad
1982            1982            R=2600mm/Km   R=3300unm/K    Ru4100mmu/m    TOTAL
3503            372,              510          300              ,0
2500-3500             3.342              400          210              50
15300-25               2.'2S              t4          390             40         010
750 -1500             1 .02             1 ,o          930              10       2520
50 -750                 612              730          600                        1510
150 -500                325              6450                                    232
50-150                 115               30           30              30          "
TOTAL
451 0        3360             0-30    ~ 700



- 102 -
ANNEX 22
DISBURSEINENT COMTS
.



_ 103 -
Millions of
, a   USS                   DISEURSEKENT CHRT
Pourth Highway Project
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .._....
Theoretical
Originally planned
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V1   *t.i,,/ 
a                              4:r"            oSt    
.--4 .'&                                                  Year



aD AaUGS IN US$ RATE
g09
0.S
07
06
04
0.1
Year
88es                 84                    S5  s*- -.86                                7                     *



- 105 -
ATTACHMENT I
Page 1 of 1
COMMENTS FROM COFINANCIER
lRLDeBANK TMSS
ZCZC OERP0589 UBW0872
OED'E'1
T(7P TF
* DEDDI *
90,04.12.1104 0872 90.04,12.1104
197688 WORLDBANK
137/4 FUND A
REFNO. 2276/12
APRIL 12, 90
FROM' DPEC FUND, VIENNA
TO: MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON, CHIEF OF DIV. AGRICl!LTLURE, INFRAST9UCTURE.
AND HUMAN RESOURCES7 WORLD BANK, WASHINGTOND.C.
REF TUNISIA - 4TH HI9HWAY PROJECT. MANY THANKS URLET OF MARCH 16
AND COMFLETION REPORT ON APOVE PROJECT. WE HAVE NO COIMENTS TO
COMMIMNICATE THEREON.
WITH BEST REGARDS
H .MIMOUNI
AFRICA REGION, DEIRECTOR
CPS MOT
OPEC FUND
131734 FUND A
197688 iORLDBAPK
=041219208
NNNN



IBRD 14732R1
TUN I SIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
REHABIUTAllON PROGRAM
Tab~~~~~~~~~~~~erb  Gw  so   Eal              Melap1 ;  
.8eerte    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~           -Rehabditatiar, program
-       Pavmro.oads
Earth and gravl roods
CflW  95I7~~~W  Gte, E~~ MeIh  Cop ~~'        Road cdossh cations
'/ /t / voSod                            7&5mary EKNI SAO 
mcs Secon&ory
|     TozN,2ft        v:                               ElNarnTob/r                         k
R,ioblwys
.4                          4                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nternationo' bovndary
h   \6   J          Gdb  ._ 
0  ' 20 S0 40 50 60 T0 80
KILOMETERS
14>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n L ,CAt    m   I
t   ( ~       _    t                      1                               ({   ;(              f ~4D! MOM. 
~~   p         4   S~~~~~~~~osE  A SLANDS
34-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
CHOTT8L  DJER          4T   W.a \ _ .
Tunisto ~~~~0404Fot. O0.O4
F R~~~~~~4'  ..gt6



