Document of                  FL   CoP:
The World Bank                     FILE  C  rc.*
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2778-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 18, 1980
This document has a restieted dbtrbutofn and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnmnce of
their fAcial duties. Its contents may not therwsbe be disosed without World  ank  uthorIadon.



TUNISIA
The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is floating.
The rate used in the report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US $1.00 = TD 0.4
TD  I    = US $2.50
Fiscal Year for the
Republic of Tunisia                January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)               3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)          0.62 miles
1 ton                     1 metric ton, or 2,208 pounds
Abbreviations
BDET                      Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
DPC                       Highway Department (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees)
MTC                       Ministry of Transport and Communications



TUNISIA:  FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Public Works
Amount:         US$36.5 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:          Amortization in 17 years including a 4-year grace period, with
interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:   The project would improve the management of the Tunisian high-
way network through better maintenance, meeting of a backlog
of rehabilitation, and strengthening the institutional frame-
work. It would consist of: (i) a three-year slice (1981-83)
of a six-year program for improving highway maintenance,
including the purchase of highway maintenance equipment; (ii)
a three-year slice (1981-83) of a six-year program of road
rehabilitation; (iii) training in Tunisia and overseas of
highway'department staff; (iv) provision of traffic signs and
laboratory and traffic survey equipment; and (v) technical
assistance for project monitoring and evaluation, overall
highway investment planning, and for preparation of annual
work programs and of a future rural roads project.
Estimated
Cost:                                              US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Road rehabilitation               27.7      22.3       50.0
Equipment                          6.3      10.4       16.7
Technical assistance
and training                    0.3        1.0        1.3
Physical contingencies            3.4        3.4        6.8
Price escalation                  8.9        8.4       17.3
Total                        46.6 /1   45.5       92.1
Financing
Plan:                                                   US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Bank                                -       36.5       36.5
Government                       46.6         -        46.6
Export Credits                    _          9.0        9.0
Total                        46.6       45.5      92.1
/1   Including taxes and duties of $20.0 million.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
(Bank FY)        1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual            8.2   14.3   11.5    2.5
Cumulative        8.2   22.5   34.0   36.5
Rate of Return:             80 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2810-TUN dated April 18, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUT'IVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$36.5 million to the Republic of Tunisia, to help
finance part of the foreign exchange cost of a Fourth Highway Project. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with an
interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum. Financing for the remaining foreign
exchange cost of US$9.0 million would be obtained in the form of export
credits.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Tunisia in June 1978. Its report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was
issued on November 16, 1978. This part reflects its findings and those of an
updating mission which visited Tunisia in July 1979. Country Data sheets are
attached in Annex I.
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with agricultural resources.  Much
of the country is arid or semiarid. Agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast in the North but continues to play an important role in
Tunisia's economic structure. The main crops are wheat and olives. These
crops are subject to sharp annual output fluctuations because of irregular
rainfall in the case of wheat and a natural production cycle for olives.
Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates and petroleum. The
large phosphate deposits are of low quality. Known oil reserves are rela-
tively small. Industrial development, although rapid, has been hampered by
shortages of industrial entrepreneurs, the small domestic market and difficul-
ties in marketing Tunisian products abroad. The most important sector is
services; during 1970-78 it generated about half of GDP, a quarter of that
sector's contribution consisting of government services. Tourism has developed
rapidly during the 1970s. Workers' remittances have become a significant item
in the balance of payments, generating about 12 percent of current account
receipts during 1970-78.
4.        Tunisia's economy has performed remarkably well during 1970-78.
Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 8.1 percent, nearly twice as fast
as during the 1960s. Per capita GNP in 1978 reached $998, which in real terms
is some 67 percent above its level of 1969. Tunisia was one of the few
countries in the world whose per capita GNP during 1970-76 increased at an
average annual rate of 6 percent or more.
1/   Part I is identical to that in President's Report No. P-2682-TUN of
December 27, 1979 for a Third Port Project.



- 2 -
5.        This performance was partly attributable to improved economic man-
agement, and partly to fortuitous factors. In 1969, Tunisia changed its
inward-oriented investment strategy dominated by state activities. The new
policy orientations, announced during the 1970s, resulted in a change towards
a more open and export-oriented economy in which private initiative could play
an increasing role. A number of decontrol measures were introduced, albeit
slowly. Overall, the new policy orientation proved beneficial for the country.
In addition, the economy benefited from favorable weather conditions resulting
in good agricultural crops while the change in world market prices during
1973/74 brought sizeable windfalls as the terms of trade improved sharply.
This allowed domestic savings to increase to 21 percent of GDP during 1970-78,
compared with 15 percent during the 1960s.  Tunisia's dependence on external
financing declined from about 32 percent of investment in 1969 to 29 percent
in 1978; the share was as low as 15 percent during 1973-76, when gains from
the terms of trade were at their peak.  The balance of payments had been in
continuous overall surplus since 1967.  But after 1975, this was no longer the
case as the terms of trade began to deteriorate while imports continued to
increase rapidly.  In 1978 there was another turnaround and reserves increased
in the wake of heavy capital inflows. However, Tunisia's debt service payments
in relation to exports of goods and non-factor services (debt service ratio)
in 1978 were still a low 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970.
6.        Rapid economic growth allowed Tunisia to make substantial social
gains during the 1970s. By 1976, primary school enrollment had reached 100
percent and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the relevant age groups. Educa-
tion is free through university. Public health services have been expanded,
with many services provided free. A family planning program has been intro-
duced and since 1973 has met with substantial success. The birth rate declined
from 43.8 per thousand in 1966 to 32.0 per thousand in 1978 while the rate of
natural growth declined from 3.0 to 2.6 percent in the same period. Attempts
have been made to reduce regional imbalances and to improve the lot of the
poor. The share of the population living in absolute poverty declined from 30
percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. However, important disparities remain
between income levels among individuals and regions. In coping with the social
aspects of development, Tunisia faces strongly increased aspirations of its
population in the face of limited natural and financial resources.
7.        The most important problem for the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. In 1978, about 13 percent of the labor force--
some 231,000 people--were unemployed and the unemployment rate has been rising.
In addition, there is considerable hidden unemployment in agriculture which
provided 39 percent of employment in 1978. If one considers that about
40 percent of this labor force does not have full time jobs, the effective
overall unemployment rate is more like 25 percent. An increasing number of
young people born during the high birth rate years are reaching working age
and a growing number of women are joining the labor force. About half of the
registered unemployed are young people seeking their first employment. These
are mostly relatively educated people whose job aspirations cannot be met.
8.        During 1970-78, agriculture provided more than 40 percent of total
employment, 25 percent of merchandise exports and 17 percent of GDP. Food
processing accounted for another 4 percent of GDP and comprised 35 percent



- 3 -
of value added in manufacturing. Agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Current policy, which emphasizes
projects that make a rapid and direct contribution to production, recognizes
various constraints on agricultural development: insecurity of land tenure;
inadequate access to agricultural credit; inadequate extension services;
insufficient agricultural education; and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan (1973-76) about $140 million was allocated
to a rural development fund executed by the provincial administrations. These
rural development efforts are being continued under the current Plan (1977-81).
9.        During the 1960s, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by 8
percent annually. This growth rate accelerated during 1970-78 to 10 percent
annually, due partly to record years for the olive oil processing industry and
to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The early
thrust of industrialization came from large import substitution projects.
These suffered, however, from the small domestic market and shortages of
experienced staff and management. Since 1970, more emphasis has been put on
export-oriented private industries, particularly in food processing, textiles
and mechanical and electrical industries. Foreign and domestic private invest-
ment is now stimulated by a comprehensive incentive framework and facilitated
by streamlined approval procedures of the investment promotion agency. Apart
from finance, foreign investors are expected to contribute know-how and over-
seas marketing capability. Although an agreement between Tunisia and the
European Economic Community signed in April 1976 provided for duty free entry
into the Community of nearly all Tunisian industrial products, import restric-
tions on some of them were imposed in 1977 and 1978. The Government has estab-
lished a special fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial
decentralization, and it has started a program to establish industrial estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1.1 million in 1978, with an average annual rate
of growth during 1970-1978 of 13 percent -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, tourism has become a
major source of foreign exchange earnings, reaching $412 million in 1978; this
was slightly more than earnings from all manufacturing exports and was exceeded
only by petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has
created new demands on infrastructure (particularly recreational facilities),
trained manpower, and related services, which have been met only partly. The
Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety
of measures including revised investment incentives, increased marketing and
training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards, more stringent zoning
laws, and development of recreational facilities.
11.       The main objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1977-81) are:
(i) full employment of the additions to the labor force; (ii) self-sufficiency
in major foodstuffs (defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural
goods); (iii) increases in the standard of living; and (iv) social stability
through incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. The Plan foresees
an average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.3 percent. This is somewhat



below the 9.2 percent achieved during 1970-76, mainly because the fortuitous
factors prevalent during the early 1970s were not expected to continue.
Investment is projected at TD 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in current prices
during the Plan. In real terms, average annual investment would be 54 percent
greater during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan. Nonetheless, the
targeted average annual rate of growth of real investment during the Fifth
Plan is only 4.1 percent, as this rate is influenced by the very high invest-
ment level achieved in the base year, 1976.
12.       The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular export-oriented
industrial development and agricultural growth. Special attention is given to
employment creation and to balance of payments considerations. Substantial
investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing, water development,
transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased domestic production and
processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates, petroleum) to raise the
value-added component of exports as much as possible. Private sector initia-
tive is expected to dominate investment in textiles, mechanical and electrical
industries, and tourism. It is in these activities that the authorities
expect most employment creation to take place. Employability of the labor
force is to be increased through education and training programs. Efforts
towards regional development are to be pursued through establishing regional
planning structures, strengthening regional administration and developing
incentives for the decentralization of productive activities. The strategy
proposed for the Fifth Plan does not represent any major departure from the
strategy pursued successfully during the preceding Plan.
13.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its good performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to support further development with appro-
priate policy measures and institutions are fundamental factors pointing
towards continuing rapid economic growth during the Fifth Plan. The 7.3
percent growth target is in line with the possibilities of the economy. The
investment priorities formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to
support the sectoral strategies. There are, however, some less favorable
signs. Tunisia will have to rely increasingly on its own resources since
the fortuitous circumstances of the early 1970s are unlikely to be repeated.
As the resource base is relatively narrow, available resources need to be
more efficiently deployed. Achieving the Plan targets presupposes the timely
introduction and successful execution of measures to: (i) strengthen the
absorptive capacity for investment, especially for labor intensive projects;
(ii) promote exports; (iii) base economic management on an efficient price and
incentive system and improve productivity; and (iv) mobilize the resources
needed to realize the comprehensive social development targets while maintain-
ing domestic and external financial stability. The Tunisian authorities have
begun to introduce measures in these respects. To increase the absorptive
capacity for investment, institutions like the Investment Promotion Agency
and the National Center for Industrial Studies were strengthened. The activi-
ties of the Export Promotion Center were widened to include investigations on
non-traditional markets, especially in the Middle East and Japan.



- 5 -
14.       Substantial efforts in domestic and external resource mobilization
in particular will be of crucial importance to finance the planned level of
investment. On the domestic side, there is a need for increased savings
and improved financial intermediation. The Government sector, in particular,
will again be called upon to contribute substantially to the savings effort.
The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent expenditure policies and
increased revenue collections (selective tax increases and better tax collec-
tion). Measures to this end have been taken by curtailing the growth of
budgetary expenditures, increasing taxes on real estate and luxury consumer
goods and making payment of taxes a pre-condition for obtaining administra-
tive licences of all kinds. In addition, the public enterprise sector will
have to increase substantially its contribution to public savings through
better management and especially through cost-related increases in the sale
prices of selected enterprises. Steps in this direction have been initiated
through tariff raises on water, power and port services. Externally, Tunisia
would have total financing requirements (disbursement basis) of some $3.1
billion during the Fifth Plan, of which $1.3 billion have already been obtained
during 1977-78. Given the country's creditworthiness, Tunisia should be able
to mobilize the remaining $1.8 billion of such financing without straining the
country's debt servicing capacity (para. 16).
15.       Since the early 1960s, Tunisia has obtained large amounts of offi-
cial aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank provided a forum for aid-
coordination among major donors in the past. During 1970-78, annual loan
commitments from public sources averaged $395 million, or about $47 per
capita. About 50 percent of these commitments came from bilateral public
sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
About 15 percent of the bilateral aid came from oil-producing countries, whose
share increased rapidly from 8 percent in 1970 to 29 percent in 1978. Commit-
ments from the Bank Group during 1970-78 accounted for 20 percent of total
public commitments. Most aid has been obtained on relatively soft terms; in
1978 the average terms of borrowing were 5.4 percent interest and 20 years
maturity, including 5 years of grace. During 1970-78, Tunisia also received
annually some $40 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $125 million a year. While direct foreign private investment has
been comparatively small, it has gained momentum since 1974 following incre-
ased activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Net direct foreign investment increased from $19
million in 1969 to $96 million in 1978, with most of it going to the petroleum
sector.
16.       At the end of 1978, total foreign debt (disbursed and outstanding)
was estimated at about $2.4 billion, or 40 percent of GDP. The debt service
ratio in 1978 was 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970. This sig-
nificant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase
in export earnings following the changes in world market prices in 1973/74.
External borrowing at the rate projected for 1977-81 (para. 14) would increase
debt service obligations to around 14 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services by 1981 and 15 percent by 1986, according to current Bank
projections. At these levels, the debt service burden would be manageable,
particularly when seen in the light of Tunisia's long record of prudent and



- 6 -
skillful balance of payments and external debt management. Tunisia is there-
fore considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
17.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-eight loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $636.1 million and $70.1 million,
net of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal (as of March 31, 1980, actual
disbursements on projects under execution amounted to 64 percent of appraisal
estimates), on the whole project execution has been satisfactory. In a number
of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved and
autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened.
18.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. The main feature of this strategy is to cooperate with the Tunisian
authorities in economic and sectoral studies addressing the main issues facing
the country and providing the underpinning for the timely and well-coordinated
preparation of projects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is
also cooperating with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobiliza-
tion of domestic and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project
cofinancing; the latter is particularly important in view of the extent of
Tunisia's external resource needs, the large size of many priority projects
and the limited availability of Bank resources relative to the country's
needs.
19.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in agriculture) infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage,
education, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning arid
public transport project has accounted for 30 percent of Bank/IDA commitments
in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastruc-
ture has accounted for 31 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received
22 percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing, through the
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), has accounted for 13
percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project for 4 percent.
20.       Projects in various stages of processing for consideration in the
remaining months of this and in subsequent fiscal years include those for
natural gas distribution, agricultural credit to farmers and agroindustries,
agricultural development in the Northwest, population and health, vocational
training, and development of small-scale, textile, and electrical and
mechanical industries.



21.       The Bank Group accounted for about 13 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-78. The Bank Group's share of total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1978 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and of debt service during 1978 was 14 percent. The
Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is expected
to remain unchanged at about 11 percent, and its share in debt service would
decline to about 12 percent.
22.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumi-
nium fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord inte-
grated tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total
$14.5 million, as of March 31, 1980.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
23.       Tunisia's transport network is reasonably well developed.  It con-
sists of 17,000 km of classified roads, 1,700 km of standard and narrow-gauge
railways, five commercial ports, and four international airports. The network
serves all parts of the country, but is most dense in the northeastern coastal
provinces inhabited by over half of the total population. Road transport
is the principal mode used for both domestic freight and passenger transport
and its share of total demand is increasing steadily. In 1978, road transport
services provided by public companies and private owner-operators accounted
for about 90 percent of passenger traffic and 85 percent of freight traffic
(excluding minerals). On the railways, apart from mineral traffic which is
concentrated on about 300 km of lines in the southern part of the country, the
density of freight traffic is very light. In 1978, Tunisian ports handled 11
million tons of cargo, Tunis/La Goulette being the main general cargo port and
Sfax the main port for dry bulk traffic.
24.       During the 1960s, traffic growth was moderate and transport invest-
ments focussed mainly on minor improvements to the existing infrastructure.
However, increasing diversification of the economy in this decade, particularly
the emphasis on agricultural production and regional development, has since
stimulated economic activity and traffic demand. High traffic growth rates in
the early 1970s brought the need to upgrade key sections of the main transport
network, in addition to continued rehabilitation and minor improvements to the
existing infrastructure. The balanced development of the transport network,
particularly through improvements to regional and local roads, evolved as an
important consideration in support of rural and regional development policy.
Previous transport projects financed by the Bank have supported this overall
strategy and pattern of development in the sector (para. 27).



- 8 -
25.       The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is responsible
for the organization of the transport sector including the planning of rail,
sea, and air transport, the coordination and regulation of land transport,
and the establishment of transport rates. A shortage of qualified staff has
resulted in deficiencies in project preparation, planning and overall coordi-
nation. The Government is therefore utilizing consultant services to prepare
subsectoral plans and an overall transport coordination study. These are now
being reviewed as part of the preparation for the Sixth Development Plan
(1982-86).
26        The Government's current objectives in the transport sector are to:
(i) improve the existing infrastructure, especially by modernization and
rehabilitation works; (ii) promote rural development by improving rural roads;
(iii) increase Tunisia's share in international traffic; and (iv) reorganize
public road transport services. While these objectives are basically sound,
a proportionally greater emphasis has been given in recent years to the
development of maritime and air transport, resulting in high foreign exchange
expenditures and limited short-term benefits. As a result of this emphasis,
allocations for highway investments were reduced in real terms during the
Fifth Development Plan (1977-81). Moreover, insufficient attention has been
paid to the modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network
and to improving the efficiency of the existing transport system. The Bank's
lending strategy in the transport sector will, therefore, continue to support
the Government's efforts to: (i) rehabilitate and maintain existing infra-
structure; (ii) improve and maintain rural roads; (iii) improve the efficiency
of transport operations; and (iv) strengthen transport institutions and
policies, including improved planning of investments.
Previous Bank Involvement
27        The Bank has financed eight transport projects since 1964.  In the
ports subsector, the first loan (Loan 380-TUN of $7 million, 1964) provided
support facilities for port operations, mainly dredging, maintenance services,
and cargo handling equipment. A Second Port project (Loan 573-TUN of $8.5
million, 1969) provided continued assistance in improving port operations and
in developing sound management in the port subsector. Both projects repre-
sented successful attempts to develop modern port infrastructure and had an
important institution-building impact (PPAR No. 1049, February 26,, 1979).
However, cargo-handling productivity did not increase as expected. The
Third Port project (Loan 1797-TUN of $42.5 million, 1980), will assist
the Government in modernizing berth facilities at the ports of La Goulette
and Sfax and in further improving the efficiency of cargo handling. In the
railways subsector, the Bank Group provided assistance (Loan 606/Credit
150-TUN of $17 million, 1969) for track rehabilitation, renewal of rolling
stock, and the improvement of maintenance and railway operations. The
project was largely a holding operation for urgent rehabilitation (PPAR No.
2109, June 23, 1978) and was successfully implemented in spite of delays and
cost increases. The project audit reports for both the ports and railway
projects found improvements in financial practices, audit procedures, and
operational information systems as a result of the technical assistance



- 9 -
provided by the projects. A pipeline project financed through a $7.5 million
Bank loan (Ln. 724-TUN, 1971) included the construction of a natural gas
pipeline from El Borma on the Algerian border to the port of Gabes. It was
completed in 1972.
28.       In the highway subsector, the Bank has attempted to develop a
balanced road network to support regional development. The First Highway
project (Loan 746-TUN of $24 million, 1971) was initially designed to support
the modernization of 275 km and rehabilitation of 1,900 km of the primary
highway network, including resurfacing, strengthening, widening and replace-
ment of 51 bridges and culverts. However, because of a higher-than-expected
traffic growth in the Tunis area, the road designs had to be revised
and upgraded, resulting in higher costs. The costs increased further because
the project implementation period coincided with rapid worldwide inflation and
higher oil prices (PPAR No. 2772, December 26, 1979). Although only 1,000 km
of roads were rehabilitated, the project did contribute to improved efficiency
in the Highway Department's road and equipment maintenance organization, and
valuable experience was gained by local consultants in preparing feasibility
studies and design work. The balance of the road rehabilitation program not
implemented under the First project was included in the Government's Fifth
Development Plan (1977-81). Therefore, the Second Highway project (Loan
1188-TUN of $28 million, 1976) focussed on modernization of key sections
of the main highway network. Implementation of the project has been slow,
mainly due to lack of local funds in the revised Plan allocations.  Based
on a revised project execution plan, the remaining works will be completed
by the end of 1982. In addition to the modernization of the main highway
network, a Third Highway project (Loan 1601-TUN of $32 million, 1978) will
balance development of the highway network through the implementation of an
integrated program for the improvement of 1,000 km of rural roads. The pro-
ject supports the development of rural roads and finances agricultural invest-
ments in the zones of influence of these roads, as part of the Government's
broad policy for rural and regional development. Construction of the roads
and implementation of complementary agricultural investments and extension
services is proceeding satisfactorily.
The Highway Subsector
29.       The Road Network.  The Highway Department (Direction des Ponts
et Chaussees, DPC) within the Ministry of Public Works is directly responsible
for the planning, administration, and maintenance of the road network. This
network comprises 17,000 km of classified roads and about 14,000 km of unclassi-
fied tracks. The density of the network is generally adequate, but with the
rapid growth of road traffic during the past decade and a decline in total
expenditures in real terms, many roads are now below standard for the traffic
they carry. Narrow pavement widths result in high transport and road mainte-
nance costs and contribute to the poor safety record of many roads. The
proposed project would assist DPC with the rehabilitation of these roads and
with upgrading its road safety program over the network as a whole.
30.       Traffic and Road Transport.  The vehicle fleet was estimated at
100,000 in 1977 with about 14 percent heavy vehicles. The level of motor-
ization is one vehicle per 60 inhabitants, which is average compared with



- 10 -
countries with a similar per capita income. The heaviest traffic volumes are
concentrated along the coast between Tunis and Sfax and roads in this area
have experienced rapid increases in traffic. Classified roads carry an
average of 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) with volumes increasing to over 20,000
vpd near Tunis. Road traffic has increased at almost 15 percent a year in the
Tunis area and averaged about 10 percent annually nationwide throughout the
1970s. Based on these trends and taking into account expected economic growth,
road traffic is forecast to increase at about 10 percent per year through
1986.
31.       Public road transport services are provided by two national trans-
port companies and several smaller regional companies. For-hire transport
is limited to pick-ups and station wagons for passenger transport and to
vehicles of less than 5.5 tons for freight. However, the public companies are
poorly organized and the better quality of service offered by private owner-
operators is such that they dominate both long-distance freight and passenger
traffic. To improve the road transport industry the Government is considering
a reduction in the number of regional companies and a simplification of the
road user tax system, which now discriminates against road transport companies
in favor of own-account transport.
32.       Highway Expenditures.  Highway expenditures are financed from both
the capital investment budget and the annual recurrent maintenance budget.
Capital expenditures, which are allocated by the Ministry of Planning, have
decreased slightly in real terms over the last three years. Moreover, about
40 percent of budget allocations have been absorbed by the Tunis-Turki Freeway
and the Bizerte Bridge. As a result, the rehabilitation and pavement strength-
ening program started under the First Highway project, as well as priority
improvements under the Second Highway project, have been delayed (para. 28).
Together with implementation of the Third Highway project (rural roads), the
proposed project, which would reinstate the urgent program of highway rehab-
ilitation, would account for about 40 percent of planned investments in road
infrastructure through 1983.
33.       The recurrent maintenance budget is controlled by the Ministry of
Finance. Since 1974, increases in the recurrent budget have been mainly for
labor, while operating funds and funds for supplies have declined in real
terms. Together with the lack of rehabilitation and pavement strengthening,
the decline in expenditure on maintenance has led to a progressive deteriora-
tion in the condition of the road network. To support improved maintenance
operations, the Government has increased the budgetary allocations for
supplies and operations in 1980 by 20 percent. Over the next few years,
DPC expects to receive moderate real term increases in all recurrent budget
items and road maintenance expenditures would return to levels achieved
during the early 1970s. In line with these budget increases and together
with increased operational efficiency, improved maintenance operations would
be achieved under the project.
34.       Highway Administration and Maintenance.  The DPC was reorganized in
1972-73 under the First Highway Project and now consists of six headquarters
divisions and a central administrative and accounting service. Staffing is



- 11 -
adequate except for engineers where recruitment has proved difficult, partly
because of unattractive civil service conditions. The DPC is capable of
preparing small projects, but major planning studies and the preparation of
large projects are carried out by consultants. Because of the increasing need
for routine planli'ng ardU pi-oject preparation activities associated with annual
rehabilitation and pavement strengthening operations, greater efforts are
required to institutionalize these functions within DPC. This will require
appropriate technical assistance and counterpart training, together with
additional equipment for geotechnical studies and traffic count programs.
The proposed project would continue to support DPC's planning and project
preparation capabilities, which are also being strengthened under the ongoing
Third Highways project.
35.       DPC operates in the field through 18 road subdivisions, each of
which controls several local brigades responsible for routine maintenance of
the classified network. Light periodic maintenance (surface dressing) is
undertaken by national brigades.
36.       DPC has worked vigorously to overcome operational problems.  In
addition, it has built up its force account capacity for surface dressing as
a minimal measure to preserve the road network. However, further improve-
ments are required in the organization and operations of maintenance, such
as the creation of more brigades to intensify maintenance over the entire
network, the use of machines better adapted to Tunisian road conditions, and
improved supervision to increase the quality of work performed. In addition,
the fleet of maintenance equipment needs to be expanded and worn-out equipment
renewed. Higher budgetary allocations will be required to raise the level
of the maintenance effort. The proposed project would help to meet these
needs and would strengthen the institutional framework for more cost-effective
road maintenance operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
37.       The proposed project was identified in November 1978, prepared by
DPC, with the assistance of Bank preparation missions in March and June 1979,
and appraised in September/October 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington
in March/April 1980. The Tunisian Delegation was led by Mr. M. Soula of the
Ministry of Public Works. The report "Staff Appraisal Report of a Fourth
Highway Project", No. 2810-TUN, dated April 18, 1980, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary. Annex III summarizes key
events leading to Board presentation and special conditions provided for in
the Loan Agreement. A map showing Tunisia's main highway network and indicat-
ing the project's first year rehabilitation program is also attached.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
38.       The overall objective of the proposed project is to halt the
deterioration of the highway network and improve its quality in accordance
with current traffic requirements. Specific objectives include meeting a
backlog of rehabilitation needs and increasing the quality and efficiency of
maintenance operations. The project would also have an important institution-
building impact through the provision of training and technical assistance
to improve the efficiency of maintenance operations and to strengthen the
analysis, planning, and project preparation capabilities of DPC.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project comprises:  (i) a three-year slice (1981-83) of
a six-year program for improving highway maintenance, including the purchase
of highway maintenance equipment; (ii) a three-year slice (1981-83) of a six-
year program of road rehabilitation; (iii) training in Tunisia and abroad,
of highway department staff; (iv) the provision of traffic signs and laboratory
and traffic survey equipment; and (v) 120 man-months of technical assistance
to DPC for project monitoring and evaluation, overall highway investment
planning, and for preparation of annual work programs and of a future rural
roads project.
40.       Maintenance.  The principal goals for improving highway maintenance
have been established in a six-year program and include: (i) reducing the
average interval between surface dressings from 16 to 10 years; (ii) increas-
ing the frequency of grading unpaved roads; and (iii) improving the effective-
ness of crews carrying out routine maintenance tasks. The improvements will
have to be gradually implemented over several years as the capacity of DPC
increases in line with progressive increases in the recurrent annual budget
for maintenance. The proposed project will assist DPC in improving its
maintenance operations through the provision of new equipment and technical
assistance in upgrading the work of the repair shops as well as the acquisi-
tion of additional equipment more appropriate to Tunisian road conditions.
41.       Rehabilitation Program.  The normal process of gradual rehabilita-
tion and betterment of the existing network has fallen behind traffic growth
and a major portion of the road network is now substandard for the traffic
volumes carried. Rehabilitation works will consist of pavement strengthening
(with and without road widening) and road widening only, where pavement
strength is adequate but traffic volumes are high. The proposed project would
start with the rehabilitation of the most urgent sections (approximately 800
km) over the three-year period. A first-year program of about 215 km of
high-priority roads has been prepared and will be ready for early tendering.
Feasibility studies on the sections to be improved during subsequent years
will be prepared on a continuing basis according to criteria and a methodology
agreed during negotiations, and submitted to the Bank for approval (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04).



- 13 -
42.       Annual Programs.  The longer term maintenance and rehabilitation
program has been defined in general terms, and a three-year action plan has
been worked out. Detailed annual programs will be prepared taking into
account the experience and progress of project execution during the previous
year and incorporating improvements in operations and planning. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that the Government will carry out the
maintenance and rehabilitation program in accordance with the action plan
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). By September 30 each year, draft annual
operations programs for each subsequent year, consistent with the action plan,
would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment.
43.       Training.  DPC has a satisfactory training program for equipment
operators and mechanics, and is extending it to include technicians. It also
plans to establish a program of continuing education for engineers. These
programs need to be better organized and administered to ensure their effec-
tiveness. The Government has confirmed that it will appoint a permanent
training officer for these purposes. The proposed project will assist the
Government in providing practical training and short courses overseas through
sixty fellowships for engineers, as well as for visits of experts to Tunisia
to conduct seminars on specific topics. During negotiations, assurances have
been obtained from the Government that it would employ experienced training
consultants to help DPC implement the training program (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(ii)).
44.       Workshop, Laboratory and Safety Equipment.  DPC's management and
technical capabilities are to be strengthened under the proposed project with
the provision of laboratory test equipment and traffic counters. Specifically,
this equipment would strengthen DPC's capacity in the analysis, design, and
control of sub-projects as well as the updating and refinement of the mainte-
nance program. The project would provide, for the Tunis laboratory, several
pieces of equipment to test the strength and service characteristics of roads,
and testing equipment for geotechnical, bitumen, concrete and soils tests for
Tunis and seven regional laboratories. The project would also assist DPC to
expand its highway safety program by financing replacement of road signs,
assisting in accident data analysis and the preparation of studies to correct
design deficiencies at high-accident locations.
45.       Technical Assistance.  About 120 man-months of consulting services
would be provided under the project to assist DPC in (i) establishing an
organization and methods unit for project monitoring and evaluation, including
traffic, road inventory and accident data processing; (ii) undertaking studies
necessary for the planning of road maintenance, including the preparation of a
highway master plan and investment program; (iii) preparing economic studies
and detailed engineering for the second and third years' rehabilitation pro-
grams; and (iv) preparing a rural roads project including detailed engineering
for about 1,000 km of road sections. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that the Government would employ qualified engineering and man-
agement consultants to help DPC implement the technical assistance program
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(i), (iii) and (iv)).



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
46.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $92.1 million, includ-
ing duties and taxes ($20.0 million), of which $45.5 million is in foreign
exchange. The foreign exchange component has been calculated on the assump-
tion, based on recent contract awards, that local contractors will win two-
thirds of construction contracts after international competitive bidding.
A 10 percent physical contingency allowance has been included on all project
items. Price escalation has been estimated at 10.5 percent in 1980, 9 percent
in 1981, 8 percent for 1982, and 7 percent for 1983, for items procured both
locally and from abroad. Manpower requirements for technical assistance total
120 man-months of professional services and, based on recent rates for
consulting services in Tunisia, are estimated to cost about $1.1 million.
This includes short-term high-level expertise at about $10,000 per man-month
and conventional consulting services at $7,500. Overseas training, including
travel, is estimated to cost about $225,000.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $36.5 million would finance 51 percent of
total project cost (net of taxes and duties), or 80 percent of the foreign
exchange cost. The proposed Bank loan would finance the full foreign exchange
cost of civil works, workshop and laboratory equipment, overseas training
and the transportation cost related to it and 75 percent of the consultants
services. It would also cover the full foreign exchange cost ($2.1 million)
of the most urgently needed maintenance equipment. Additional road main-
tenance equipment would be financed by export credits. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that the Government would conclude export credit
agreements, to be effective by September 30, 1981, to finance the foreign cost
of the remainder of the maintenance equipment ($9.0 million) (Loan Agreement,
Recital B and Section 5.01(a)). Assurances were also obtained that adequate
funds would be provided under the Government's capital and recurrent budgets,
promptly as needed, for carrying out the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)).
48.       In addition to the above capital costs, the complete highway modern-
ization program includes annual recurrent costs totalling an estimated $88.7
million over the three years (1981-83), which will be financed entirely by the
Government.
Project Implementation
49.       DPC would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (a)). Most of the civil works would be
carried out by contractors whom DPC would supervise. For surface dressing,
DPC is expected to employ its own labor on force-account, which based on
past experience, is the most cost-effective method in Tunisia. DPC would also
procure the equipment. The Department successfully implemented the First
Highway project and is continuing to implement the Second Highway and the
Rural Roads projects (para. 28), the latter together with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT), the leading commercial
bank which finances agricultural investments.



- 15 -
50.       Physical execution of the project will cover the three calendar
years 1981-83. Tenders for the civil works to be executed during the first
year of the rehabilitation program and for a first lot of equipment will be
called in 1980.
Procurement and Disbursements
51.       Civil works (total estimated cost $69 million), laboratory workshop
and Bank-financed maintenance equipment ($7 million) contracts will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines, except for highly specialized road evaluation equip-
ment ($0.2 million) which would be procured through negotiated contracts for
purposes of standardization. Other road maintenance equipment ($14 million)
will be procured on the basis of export credits. Both foreign and Tunisian
contractors are expected to bid for the civil works. As far as possible, the
annual programs will be grouped on a geographical basis and will be organized
in lots of such a size as to encourage maximum participation of foreign and
local contractors. Contractors, who would be allowed to bid for one or more
lots, would be prequalified. Bids will be invited for the first group of
lots in mid-1980. Technical assistance will be provided by qualified and
experienced firms of consultants and experts on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
52.       Disbursements would be 45 percent of civil works, 100 percent of
the foreign cost or 63 percent of the local cost of equipment, 75 percent
of the cost of consultants' services, 100 percent of foreign cost of overseas
training and the full cost of transportation associated with it. Disburse-
ments would take place over four years 1981-84, and the loan closing date
would be September 30, 1984.
Benefits and Risks
53.       The proposed project represents an integrated and balanced approach
to road maintenance, combining improved maintenance operations with a program
of rehabilitation and pavement strengthening on key sections of the network.
The maintenance and rehabilitation programs would complement each other in
that improved and more cost-effective maintenance operations would reduce
the need for rehabilitation works in the future, while the rehabilitation
program will lower the requirements for costly reconstruction over the net-
work. Training and technical assistance will strengthen the organization
and administration of the road network, and raise operational efficiency as
well as the level of maintenance. Foremost, implementation of the combined
program would result in transport cost savings which follow from reduced road
deterioration. Potential bottlenecks and high transport costs over the net-
work would be avoided and improved road conditions would provide the necessary
support for economic growth and the Government's policy for rural and regional
development.
54.       As the program covers the entire country, the associated economic
benefits will be widespread and affect a large proportion of total population.
The direct beneficiaries would be the private owners of cars, vans and small
trucks as well as the public transport enterprises. Since competition in the



- 16 -
trucking industry is keen and rates are related to costs, the benefits from
the project would be largely passed on to all transport users in the form of
lower transport rates as a result of savings in operating costs. Benefits
would also accrue directly to the Government through more cost-effective main-
tenance operations and by avoiding costly reconstruction at a later date.
55.       The benefits have been estimated for an improved maintenance program
which is appropriate to the capacity of the existing maintenance set-up. The
scope of the program has, therefore, been dictated largely by existing and
short-term physical and financial constraints. The overall program, compris-
ing routine and periodic maintenance and rehabilitation, has an economic
return of 80 percent. The returns on the specific road sections in the first-
year rehabilitation program average over 100 percent.
56.       The risk of compromising implementation of the program has been mini-
mized, since the improved maintenance program has been tailored to moderate
increases in the recurrent budget and to a gradual improvement in maintenance
procedures in line with absorptive capacity. If implementation of the rehab-
ilitation program were delayed, the economic return on these works would
increase even further, but the economy would forego benefits. Because the
Government is strongly committed to the program, this risk is minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Tunisia, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 18, 1980
Washington, D.C.



17                                                     M= 1
TAiLS  3                                             Page  1  of  5
TUNISIA-SCAL INdDICATOt9 DATA SHIZT
TLUNISIA                   REFERENCZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED A     S
LANDAREA (TFiOUSAND S      )- MOST R)CEST  STIMAT) II
'L        lRo16m.                                                 SANE        SAME     NEXT 1(1083
AGRICULTURAL      76.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOMYE       INZ
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    1UP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 210.0       350.0     860.0           1367.7      926.1      tnS.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIL-RAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      190.0       261.0     456.0           838.1       730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.2         5.1       5.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0        44.0      48.0             49.0       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0        31.0      36.0             19.9       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     55.0        67.0      77.0            99.0       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3        46.2      43.0            45.6        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0      53.0            51.4        55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2         3.8       4.0             2.8         3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /f      2.0/f     2.3/k            3.0        2.4         1.7
URBAN                               ..         3.8       3.6              5.2        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     47.0        39.0      32.0             43.7       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0        14.0      12.0             13.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         3.4       2.2              3.2        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        29.2      73.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          8.0      18.0              ..        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         122.3        98.0     125.0            90.8       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.0        93.0     102.0            99.0       105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          54.0        63.O/g    67.4            63.6        64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        14.Oj   20.0              16.0       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0        20.0      15.0             15.9        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0         54.0      57.0            53.8        60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..       135.0        ..              ,.        46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        49.0      70.0             56.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            83.4        75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            34.3        40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..             59.1       46.0        70.1
UR8AN                               ..          ..      30.0            78.2        46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            26.4        22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        1000.0       5950.0    4800.0          3677.0     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       730.0    1070.0          1730.6      1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            360.0/h     410.0     410.041,1       577.0      453.4        197.6
URBAN                               ..       280.0     230.0Zl            ..      253.1        260.2
RURAL                               ..       930.0    1040.07,             -      2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.1         .             21.8       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1 /1    6.0             5.8         5.3         4.7
URBAN                               ..         5.1 /i    5.8             5.5         5.2         4.4
RURAL                               ..         5.1 7     6.1             6.0         5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               '-         3.2 /i    ..               ..         1.9         1.1
URBAN                               ..         2.7Ti      ..              ..         1.b         1.2
RURAL                               ..         3.6 /i    ..               .,         2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        24.0 /i    ..             45.I        50.0        b4.0
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            67.9        71.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        17.3



-is-                                             ANNE 1
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  5
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                     g
TUNISIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyJERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0       100.0     100.0             85.0       102.5       101.7
MALE                 88.0        120.0     118.0            103.7       108.6       110.0
FEMALE               43.0         79.0      81.0            66.0         97.1       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0        23.0      20.0             27.6        33.5        51.2
MALE                 19.0         33.0      26.0             39.2        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                5.0         13.0      14.0             20.8        30.7       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 24.0          12.0       17.0             4.3         11.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            61.0        48.0      40.0             32.6        35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                          16.0        28.0      23.0             23.4        22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5        24.0/i    55.0             41.4        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        13.0      18.0             16.7        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        41.0         77.0     141.0            147.9       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1        10.0      27.0             36.0        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.0        16.0      33.0             17.9        40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..        2.3             2.9          3.7        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1400.0      1300.0/1  1700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.1         7.7       8.5              8.6        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.5        49.8      43.0             43.0        43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 17.6        21.0      23.0             23.7        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.0        23.7      23.7             26.7        33.5        33.8
MALE                                 50.2        44.2       44.0            46.4        48.0        51.3
FEMALE                                3.3         3.6       4.0              5.1         16.8       16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4         1.8/i      1.4             1.8          1.4        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       17.0            21.4        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..      42.0             48.6        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       6.0              5.3         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       15.0            15.0        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     204.0            201.3       270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      97.0            134.2       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     193.0            288.6       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     193.0            170.0       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      20.0             22.9        20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..       15.0            31.2        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle
Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natural increase;   /g  Av. 1964-66;   /h  1962;   /i   1966;  /j  1972;   /k  Official intercensal
(1966-75) estimate;   /1  Government hospital establishments only.
May, 1979



- 19 -
TUNISIA                                               ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SIHEET                                                         Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Actual                  Preim8.          !rj~tdLGrowt1hRatL1
1972      17T6At;    1977       17W            191 819i }             1973      1S7;719B2             1978
1976     1981    1986       Share of GOP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Dinars millions; 1972 constant
prices)
1.  Gross domestic product                 1,078.0  1,396.0   1,456.5       1,572.0    1,936.8   2,655.3           6.7      6.8      6.5           100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade                  -        33.2      50.8         91.1      131.6      200.4           -        -        -              5.8
3.  Gross domestic income (1+2)            1,078.0  1,429.2   1,507.3       1,663.1    2,068.4   2,855.7           7 3      7.7      6.7           105.8
4.  Imports                                  282.9    437.3      509.6        540.2      588.9      781.0         11.5      6.1      5.8            34.4
5.  Exports-volume                           270.6    310.2      327.7        328.9      413.8      570.7          3.5      5.9      6.6            20.9
6.  Exports - TT adjusted                    270.6    343.4      378.5        420.0      545.4      771.1          6.1      9.7      7.2            26.7
7.  Resource Gap - TT adjusted (4-6)          12.3      93.9     131.1        120.2       43.5        9.9           -        -        -              7.6
8.  Total Consunption                        857.8  1,167.4   1,275.5       1,388.7    1,680.6   2,286.5           8.0      7.6      6.4            B8.3
Public consumption                150.9    218.0      241.6        267.3       336.5     485.3          9.6       9.1     7.6            17.0
Private consumption               706.9    949.4   1,033.9       1,121.4    1,344.1   1,801.2           7.7       7.2     6.0            71.3
9.  Total investment                         232.5    355.7      362.9        394.6      431.3      579.1         11.2      3.9      6.9            25.1
Fixed investment                   214.0    341.9      368.3        403.2       430.0     575.0         12.4      4.7      6.0            25.6
10. National Savings                         209.4    241.9      218.2        272.5      370.8      540.1          3.7      8.9      7.8           17.3
11. Domestic Savings                         201.7    248.0      237.2        283.0      387.8      569.2          5.3      9.4      8.0            18.0
12. GDP at current prices (USS millions) 2,259.0  4,448.5   5,007.0         5,908.2    8,836.8  16,109.8          18.5     14.7    12.8
13. Fixed investment at current prices       448.4  1,Z96.6   1,503.5       1,814.0    2,192.9   4,596.4          29.0     10.5    15.9
(USS M)
14. Fixed investment/GOP (current)            19.8      29.1      30.0         30.7       24.8       28.5           -        -        -
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                            (Distribution in percentages; 1972 constant prices)
1.  Agriculture                               23.8      20.8      18.5         18.0       16.5       14.6          2.9      1.6      4.0
2.  Industry                                  23.5      23.7      25.0         25.5       26.4       28.3          6.7      8.7      8.0
3.  Service                                   52.7      55.4      56.5         56.5       57.1       37.1          7.8      7.1      6.5
C. PRICES (1972 ' 100)
1.  Export price index (incl. NFS)           100.0    181.2      197.9        228.0      312.8      387.7         16.0     11.5      4.4
2.  Import price index (incl. NFS)           100.0    163.7      171.4        178.5      246.7      286.9         13.1      8.5      3.1
3.  Terms of trade index                     100.0    110.7      115.5        127.7      126.8      135.1          2.6      2.8      1.3
4.  GDP deflator                             100.0    136.6      147.5        156.4      206.3      244.7          8.1      8.6      3.5
5.  Average exchange rate (dinars per S)   .4772    .4288        .429         .4162       .4034     .4034
0.  SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1972 constant prices)          1973-76    1977-81    1982-86
1.  ICOR                                           3.2         3.6        3.4
2.  Import elmsticity                              1.48        1.16       0.8
3.  Average national savings rate/GDY             18.0        16.5        17.7
4.  Marginal national savings rate/GDY             9.3        20.2       21.5
5.  Imports/GOY                                   28.2        31.0       27.9
6.  Investment/GDY                                21.3        22.4       20.6
7.  Resource gap/GDY                               6.6        10.8        8.0
E. PUBLIC FINANCE (General Gov't)             1972        1976       1977
(as S of GDP at current prices)
1.  Current revenue                           21.5        25.3       27.0
2.  Current expenditure                       17.8        19.3       20.0
3.  Current surplus                            3.7         6.1        7.D
4.  Capital expenditure                        6.1         8.1       11.1
5.  Loans and advances (not)                   2.4         2.1        4.1
F. LABOR FORCE                                1972        1976       1978
(in thousands)
1.  Total labor force                         1450        1671       1782
2.  Employment                                1277        1440       1522
2.1 Agriculture                            589        593         595
2.2 Industry                               344        437         484
2.3 Services                               344        410         443
3.  Unemployment                               173         231        260 2/
1I' Staff estimates
Includes 29 thousand Tunisians that left to work abroad.



- 20 -
llff A 91V 0 VINIMOU0iS1TAC1                                                             o lf 5
Aettw,                             Prelim.                      Projts 1
1969        1972           1976          1977          1978          1979           ltl           19i6
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports (incl. NF5)                             287.8        567.1       1,311.1       1,511.7       1,802.0       2,332.7         3,026.9       5,487.2
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                             346.2        592.8       1,669.8       2,035.7       2,316.9       2,774.2         3,268.0       S,5S7.4
3.  Resource balance                                -58.4        -25.7        -358.7        -524.0        -514.9        -441.6          -241.1         -70.2
4.  Net factor service income                       -45.9        -22.7         -58.2         -42.9          -7.2         -55.9           -97.8        -222.6
1.  Net investment income                      -24.4        -43.0         -73.9         -93.9        -132.2         -184.9         -233.5        -369.1
2.  Workers' remittances   -                    21.9         62.0         143.0          168.3         216.3         235.6          264.7          354.3
3.  Net other servicet income                  -43.4        -41.7        -127.3        -117.2          -91.3        -106.6         -129.0        -207.7
5.  Net current transfers                             7.9          6.1          -0.5          -0.9           -             -               -             -
6.  Balance on current account                      -96.4       -42.3        -417.4         -567.8        -522.1        -497.4          -338.9        -292.6
7.  Private direct investment                        19.0         36.7         102.6          92.3          96.1         110.0           137.5         221.4
8.  Official grants                                  43.6         37.3          53.2          47.3          38.2          40.0            38.0          30.0
Public M&LT loans
9.  Disbursements                               -   92.4         139.8         224.4         643.3         636.0         599.8           537.1         714.5
10. Amortization                                    45.0          71.9          65.7         68.6          103.1         160.8           261.2       -526.8
11. Net disbursements                               47.4          67.9         158.7         554.7         532.9         439.0           275.9         187.7
12. Short-term  capital and errors
and omissions                                  5.2        -22.4          59.9        -183.2        -110.1            -              -             -
13. Changes in reserves                            -18.8        -77.2           43.0          56.7         -35.0         -91.5         -112.5        -146.3
increase)
14. Net foreign exchange reserves                    -4.0        192.1         304.5         247.8         282.8         374.5           545.8       1,389.4
B. GRANT AND LOAN COHHITMENTS
1.  Official grants                                 43.6          36.7         102.6          92.3          96.1
2. Total public M6LT loans                          172.8        187.7        774.5          888.6         592.5
2.1  IBD                                         34.4         36.0          60.0          77.5           67.0
2.2  IDA                                          8.5         10.0           4.8            -             -
2.3  Other aultilateral                           -            1.0           95.8          36.4          12.3
2.4  Goverrments                                 71.2        106.0         454.8          341.4         251.2
2.5  of which centrally plwnned
2.6  Suppliers                                   23.2           7.3          16.3          69.2
2.7  Financial institutions                      29.1         27.5          118.8         364.1         262.0
2.8  Other                                        6.4          -             24.0           -             -
C.  MEHDRANDUM ITEMS
1.  Grant elment of total comitzsnts                  ..          ..            34.6          23.8          18.3
2.  Average interest (percent)                        ..          ..             5.0           6.2           7.2
3.  Average maturity (years)                          ..          ..            20.8          16.4          14.1
1/  Staff estimtes                                                         -  Nil or less than half of unit shnm                               ElENA CPIIB
Not available                                                    September 1979



-21-
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5 pages
TUNISIA                                                   DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual
1969       1973       1974       1975         1976       1977         1978
MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1.  Total debt outstanding (DOD; end of period)                501.6      826.4       938.9   1,038.9      1,175.2   1,780.1         2,359.1
2.  Including undisburbed        -                             768.3   1,306.3   1,518.5   1,764.2         2,435.6   3,331.6         4,067.9
3.  Public debt service                                         60.4       88.7        91.5      101.6       104.6       143.7         201.4
1.  Interest                                               15.4        27.7       30.7       35.1         38.7       53.9           95.0
DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1,  Debt service ratio                                          21.0       12.4         7.3        7.6         8.0         9.4          10.9
2.  Debt service and direct investment income ratio             22.0       14.8         7.3        8.7         9.9        10.8          12.6
3.  Debt service/GDP                                             4.6        3.2         2.6        2.4         2.3         2.8           3.4
4.  Public debt service/Government revenue                      19.2       13.9        10.9        9.2         9.3        10.5
5.  Total DOD/GDP                                               37.9       29.7       26.7        24.2        26.3        35.4          39.6
TERMS (percentage)
1.  Interest on total DOD/total DOD 1/                           3.3        4.0         3.7        3.7         3.7         4.6           5.3
2.  Total debt service/total DOD 1/                             13.0       12.7       11.1        10.8        10.0        12.1          11.3
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT (percentage)
1.  Gross disbursements/imports (including NFS)                 26.7       19.6       11.6        12.3        13.4       36.1           23.6
2.  Net transfer/imports (including NFS)                         9.2        8.2        4.2         5.8         7.2       24.6           15.3
3.  Net transfer/gross disbursements                            34.6       42.1       36.4        46.8        53.5        77.9          65.0
EXPOSURE (percentage)
1.  IBRD disbursements/Total disbursements                       6.4       13.8       16.3        14.1        11.3         7.3           5.7
2.  Bank Group disbursements/Total disbursements                10.2       17.3       20.6        20.7        15.2         8.2           5.9
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           3.6        8.5        9.4        10.5        10.9         9.4           8.0
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     6.3       12.9       13.9        15.9        16.3        13.2          10.9
5.  IBRD debt service/Total debt service                         2.6        9.1       12.0        13.7        16.0       14.9           13.3
6.  Bank Group debt service/Total debt service                   2.6        9.6       12.4        14.1        16.6        17.3          13.6
EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                                    Outstanding. Dec. 31. 1978
(millions of US dollars)                                                             Amount          Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                              189.4            8.0
2.  IDA                                                                                67.4            2.8
3.  Other multilateral                                                                 62.6            2.7
4.  Governments                                                                     1,247.7           52.9
5.  Suppliers                                                                         110.2            4.7
6.  Financial institutions  -                                                         661.4           28.0
7.  Other                                                                              20.3            0.9
8.  Total public M&LT debt                                                          2,359.1          100.0
9.  Total public MELT debt (including undisbursed)                                  4,067.9          172.4
DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1979-1983/Total DOD end of 1978 (percent): 86.3
1/  DOD at the end of previous year                                       -   Nil or less than half of unit shown                                 EMENA CPIIB
Not available                                                      April 1980



- 22 -
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
Loan or
Credit                                                                              US $ Million
Number   Year - Borrower                           Purpose                          Amount (less
Cancellation)
Bank   IDA b/ Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                   139.4  60.5
238     1971   Republic of Tunisia                Population                             4.8    1.5
858     1972   Republic of. unisia                Tourism Infrastructure         14.0           4.0
937     1973   Republic of Tunisia                Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                11.0           1.5
989     1974   SONEDE                             Water Supply                   23.0           1.8
1029     1974   Republic of Tunisia                Hotel Training                  5.6           2.3
1042     1974   Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA          Phosphate Development           23.3           3.5
1068     1974   Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Rehabilitation    12.2             5.4
1088     1975   Republic of Tunisia                Urban Sewerage                 28.0          16.7
1155     1975   Republic of Tunisia                Education                       8.6           8.3
1188     1976   Republic of Tunisia                Highways                       28.0          24.6
1189     1976   Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)  Development Finance Co.           20.0           0.8
238-1   1976   Republic of Tunisia               Population                              4.8    1.1
1340     1976   Banque Nationale de Tunisie    Agricultural Credit                12.0           6.1
1355     1976   Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricit6 et du Gaz         Power                           14.5           0.6
1431     1977   Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Development         42.0          23.0
1445     1977   SONEDE                            Water Supply                    21.0          18.8
1504     1977   BDET                              Development Finance Co.         30.0          13.1
1505     1977   Republic of Tunisia               Small-Scale Industrial
Project                        5.0           4.7
1601     1978   Republic of Tun'isia              Rural Roads                     32.0          32.0
1675     1979   Republic of Tunisia               Urban Sewerage                  26.5          26.5
1702     1979   Societ6 Nationale d'Exploi-    Fifth Water Supply
tation d.'Eau                                                   25.0          25.0
1705 a/  1979   Republic of Tunisia               Second Urban Development        19.0          19.0
1746 a!  1979   Republic of Tunisia               Second Fisheries                28.5          28.5
1796 a!  1980   Republic of Tunisia               Southern Irrigation             25.0          25.0
1797 a!  1980   Office des Ports Nationaux         Third Port                     42.5          42.5
TOTAL                                       ..                            636.1  70.1  336.4
Of which has been repaid                   ..                             61.3   4.7
Total now outstanding                      ..                            574.8  65.4
Amount Sold                        14.4
of which has been repaid           7.6                                   6.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/          ..                            568.2  65.4
Total Undisbursed                                                        333.8   2.6  336.4
a/ Not yet effective        b/  Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 23 -                                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1980)
Amount in US $ Million
Year  Obliqator                                 Type of Business                 Loan   Equity Total
1962  NPK Engrais                               Fertilizers                        2.0   1.5    3.5
1966  Soci6te Nationale d'Investissement        Development Finance Co.                   0.6    0.6
1969  COFIT (Tourisjp) -                        Development Finance Co.            8.0   2.2   10.2
1970  Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                         Development Finance Co.                  0.6    0.6
1973  Societe Touristique & H8telibre
RYM SA.                                  Tourism                            1.6   0.3    1.9
1973  Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                           Tourism                             -    0.0    0.0
1975  Soci6te d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord .                         Tourism                            2.5   0.6    3.1
1974  Industries Chimiques du Fluor             Chemicals                                 0.7    0.7
1978  BDET                                      Development Finance Co.                   1.3    1.3
Total Gross commitments                                                       14.1   7.8   21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                         5.8   1.6    7.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                                              8.3   6.2   14.5
Total undisbursed                           ..                                 --    0.5    0.5



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Cr. 238-1: Population Project: US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  March 21, 1977;
Closing Date: (Original) December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31,
1980.
After many delays, the maternity hospitals in Sousse, Tunis and Sfax
are now about to be commissioned. The construction of the fourth hospital
at Bizerte is likely to be completed by the end of 1980. Twenty-five of the
29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been completed;
three will be completed in mid-1980. The center at La Hafsia may have to be
deleted from the project because the Government has been unable to obtain a
suitable site.
Ln. 858: Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of September 28,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1977; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project has entered its final implementation stage. About
95 percent of project work is completed. The remainder is expected to be
completed by mid-1980. Total project cost, including price escalation allow-
ances, is still estimated at TD 31.5 million. Of the total Bank financing of
$24 million (including the fully disbursed credit 329-TUN of $10 million),
about 85 percent has been disbursed.
Ln. 937: Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432: million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by the end of 1980. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial changes
in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to encourage
the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The project also
assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des Transport (SNT) in
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improving its organization
and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its vehicles with the construc-
tion of a new bus depot.  In parallel, the city of Tunis adopted a new traffic
plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus lanes and restricted parking
zones, which contributed substantially to the improvement of bus services in
Greater Tunis. This, combined with an increase in the SNT bus fleet, and
improved bus maintenance has led to an increase in the use of SNT transport
facilities by about 27 percent above the level which would have been achieved
in the absence of the project.
Ln 989:   Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1979, (Current) June 30, 1980.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
All the water production facilities programmed under the third
project are now in operation. As a result of this major increase in water
production, water supply services in Sfax have substantially improved. The
remaining loan amount will be disbursed for works in the city's distribution
network. Execution of the works included in the fourth project has slowed
down. Contracts for the two remaining items under the project, a water treat-
ment plant and a pumping station, are expected to be awarded by mid-1980.
Having increased the average water rates last year by about 44 percent, the
borrower's financial situation is expected to remain satisfactory for the next
two years.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
October 31, 1978; (Current) October 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now open. The
practice hotels attached to the schools are both to open later in 1980.
Requests for disbursements of the remaining funds should be received by May
1980.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were in-
tended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was commis-
sioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the related
underground mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company
has hired experienced consultants whose services are financed by the unused
portion of the Bank loan. The services include: (i) 6 months' technical
assistance in further testing the longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on
open pit mining of an alternative deposit from which the supply of rock to the
washing plant could be supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
of an improved cost control system. Early longwall test results are encourag-
ing and it is now likely that this method can be introduced in the Sehib mine
during the next four to six years. The washing plant is currently adequately
supplied from a small open pit operation. A substantial phosphate price
increase this year alleviates the tight financial position of the company
resulting from uncompetitive production cost and excessive loan financing in
previous years. Recent management changes may further contribute to the
improvement of the company's operations.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the latter's contribution to the investment costs. Enforcement of the
Agrarian Reform is progressing slowly, especially in the Medjerda area.
In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is developing well and farmers have
been settled on nearly 60 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to
encourage large owners to improve cultivation of land and marked progress has
been reported in the distribution of medium- and short-term credit. Progress
in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks
continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) December 15, 1979; (Current) December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number
of factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and project
completion is expected by the end of 1981. One of its major benefits will be
release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has
been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated
sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a land-use plan
for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1980; (Amended Project) March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assistance.
The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million and the
Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, representing
the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Implementation of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily; construction of extensions to one



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
teachers' college has commenced and the four other extensions are under
design.  Equipment procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lot 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway are complete and
in progress on Lot 9 on the same route. Works are behind schedule although
quality is generally satisfactory. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in
Nabeul. Construction works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have not started yet due to
lack of local financing and problems with expropriation. The local financing
issue has been discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and Planning
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items. The final report of the transport coordination study has
been submitted but the Government is still discussing some of the recommenda-
tions with the consultants.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Disbursements are about 6 months ahead of the schedule projected in
the appraisal report. BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past
three years in the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery,
financial practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an
increasingly important role in financing industrial development, extending
about one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in
Tunisia.
Ln 1340: Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
About 52 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 80
percent is committed. Under the small farmer category, lending to production
cooperatives which meet the income criteria applied to small farmers has been
taken up. Prospects are good for the early commitment of funds for service
cooperatives. Commitments of funds to commercial farmers and agro-industries
are progressing satisfactorily but subloan applications of farmer associations
for the establishment of date palm plantations have not yet been approved.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines have been
commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties in operating
the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack of spare parts.
The consultants for the energy pricing study have been selected. It is
expected that the study will be completed by the end of 1980.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is underway. The
Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The relocation of
the railroad is suffering some delays, but traffic has not been interrupted
during the last rainy season. Construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon inter-
connection canal started one year behind schedule, but is proceeding well with
the assistance of the People's Republic of China.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a Pilot
project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million to BDET and
of $5.0 million to the Government, of January 25, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The start up of the project suffered from difficulties in finalizing
legal arrangements concerning the SSI Pilot Project component, which delayed
effectiveness by about six months. Nevertheless, commitments under the loan
to BDET have built up rapidly after effectiveness and disbursements are
in line with appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority
in its financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Although with some delay, commitments have also begun
under the SSI pilot project showing that the commercial banks' initial reluc-
tance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing is being overcome. Considerable
progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a network
of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to
the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.
Ln. 1601: Rural Roads Projects; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Road construction in the first three of the provinces to be covered
under the project is progressing satisfactorily, and works have now begun
in a fourth province (Nabeul). The Government wishes to accelerate imple-
mentation of the project, so as to complete the works by end-1982.
Ln. 1675: Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of April 13,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceeding.
Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction is
expected to begin in mid-1980.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. 1702: Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved five urban and thirteen
rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $16.2 million.
Ln. 1705: Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Effectiveness is pending receipt of official
documents after Bank commented on drafts.
Ln. 1746: Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20, 1979;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Loan effectiveness is pending receipt of the legal opinion. Bids
for port infrastructure are being evaluated. Tender documents for boat
engines and hulls have been finalized.
Ln. 1796: Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of February 8,
1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 8, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Loan effectiveness is pending formal establishment of implementation
authorities and preparation of legal opinion.  Bank is reviewing bidding
documents for well drilling.  Tender documents for procurement of pipes and
equipment are being prepared.
Ln. 1797:  Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Planned Date of Effectiveness:  May 8, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985.
Loan effectiveness is pending finalization of cofinancing arrange-
ments and preparation of legal opinion. The civil works contracts for La
Goulette and Sfax have been signed.



- 30 -                          ANNEX III
TUNISIA: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to                About 11 months, from November
prepare the project:                      1978 to October 1979
(b) The agency which prepared the
project:                                  Ministry of Public Works
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  November 1978
Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                     November 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:             September 24, 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:                     April 4, 1980
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:                 August 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Implementation of the maintenance and rehabilitation program accord-
ing to a three-year action plan agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank (para. 42).
(b) By September 30 each year, submission to the Bank for review and
comment updated annual plans of operations, consistent with the
three-year action plan, to be carried out in each subsequent year
(para. 42).
(c) Agreement on the methodology for evaluating road sections to be
rehabilitated and submission of feasibility studies (para. 41).
(d) Export credit agreements for the financing of the part of the road
maintenance equipment not financed by the Bank, to be effective by
September 30, 1981 (para. 47).



'BRD  14732R
FfORUARY 1980
TUNISIA
- i? # d i t e r ra n e a r--S                                         ---.-FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
FIRST YEAR REHABILITATION PROGRAM
.                                      -     Reha6litotion program
-         aPved-roads
: H />>1; Et MTh ,> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rood tlossifcoions.
Se-e    -                   M Sedr   re            C ll o f  Turvs                 h          rgGPIG Primary
nterrn atiorl boumrdary
World anks taff eolnon eydfo
.   ena    0000 and the
.n sot reply, on} thepart of thh
\_~~~~~ KefrirzwIc5                                                                 f/zl
!orld Bank and ta afht,atao. any                         Krt
jndgtnent so the lapel statnoEnL
_ T( om_ lDerzt<o  a etb
ea            ,.                     an  ertr r n  nosmn
34Trp   of oh                                                                                            iF              -
Nceftc                                                                        Redye i|Tun
--------------    _--     --------=--                                      Ee                          \ /
Tunisia                                                                                                                 /e 
t FRfC A >t   
To, T hisap     b-enprepard bylhe                                                                              c B5MCegal       10  IS  20  25  
H            ~~W.r1d 8-k'saeeetdro Vf -1-,(0 f.                                                                              KILOMETERS                7
5s  <   ;            ~~The d--b-aton  -sd and the                                                              FV//
W, dot 6.pk/ -md,tt5ffjilDsayt                                                                           ahts         </
* /dg-,n on the lf,d status of /  
8                \~~1-.    -nV terWoy or aN  Ind---en                            =                              \t
[  \ o, accept_it__  b  o_su bou-ae d-  



