Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB5786 
Project Name 
Georgia: Second Development Policy Operation (DPO-2) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%); General industry and 
trade sector (35%); Other social services (15%); Health (15%) 
Project ID 
P117698 
Borrower(s) 
Georgia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
May 27, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 13, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 13, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Georgia experienced rapid growth in excess of 9 percent per year between 2004 and mid-2008 as a 
result of implementing far-reaching reforms with impressive results.  However, the double shocks from 
the August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global economic crisis resulted in a sharp downturn in 
economic growth.  The double shocks led to significant deterioration in investor and consumer 
confidence, contraction in foreign direct investment, exports, and remittances, a cutback in bank lending, 
and stress on public finances from revenue shortfalls and increased expenditure needs.  As a result, the 
economy contracted by an estimated 3.9 percent in 2009 following growth of 2.3 percent in 2008, which 
represents a sharp slowdown from rapid growth in excess of 9 percent during the preceding four years.  
FDI inflows collapsed from $1.67 billion (16.4 percent of GDP) in 2007 to $765 million (7.1 percent of 
GDP) in 2009, while exports fell from 31 percent of GDP in 2007 to 29.8 percent in 2009. 
 
Real economic activity appears to be picking up after bottoming out in the second half of 2009, although 
the recovery continues to exhibit weakness along several dimensions.  Real GDP grew by 0.4 percent in 
the fourth quarter of 2009 and contracted by only 1.2 percent in the third quarter, after contracting 
sharply by 5.1 percent and 10.1 percent in the first and second quarters.  Exports, worker remittances, 
real estate transactions, vehicle registrations, and construction permits have picked up since the second 
half 2009.  At the same time, the recovery continued to exhibit weakness along several dimensions, with 
bank lending and imports only recently showing signs of a modest pickup; furthermore, while foreign 
direct investment inflows were up in the second half of 2009, they remain far below pre crisis levels. 
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The proposed Second Development Policy Operation (DPO-2) is the second in a series of three 
programmatic development policy operations intended to support the Government of Georgia’s policy 
reform program to (i) mitigate the impact of the economic downturn in the short-term; and (ii) facilitate 
recovery and prepare Georgia for post-crisis growth in the medium-term.  In addition to a satisfactory 
macroeconomic and fiscal framework, the main policy areas supported are: (i) improving the efficiency 
and effectiveness of public finances; (ii) improving the effectiveness of the social safety net; and (iii) 
improving external competitiveness.   
 
Page  2
The proposed DPO-2 is supporting an orderly transition in the focus of the authorities from immediate 
mitigating measures toward preparing the conditions for post-crisis growth.  The macroeconomic and 
fiscal framework includes significant fiscal adjustment to safeguard sustainability as economic recovery 
takes hold during 2010-12, following the countercyclical fiscal stimulus to mitigate the downturn during 
2008-2009.  Improved efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures are directed at supporting 
economic recovery and creating the conditions for growth in the medium term.  Improved effectiveness 
of the social safety net is directed at cushioning the impact of the downturn and ensuring that the 
benefits of post-crisis growth are broadly shared.  Improved external competitiveness is directed at 
ensuring that a vibrant and competitive private sector supports economic recovery and serves as the 
engine of post-crisis growth in the medium term. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed DPO is anchored in a strong Government program to respond to the crisis in the short 
term and implement key structural reforms in the medium term.  In response to the double shocks of the 
August 2008 conflict and the subsequent global economic crisis, the authorities adopted a number of 
sound measures to address the fallout and mitigate the impact of the downturn.  These include the 
scaling up of critical social and infrastructure investments, providing liquidity and regulatory support to 
the banking sector, and working with the international community to secure donor assistance. 
 
The Government’s response to the crisis has received broad support from the international community.  
In October 2008, following a “Joint Needs Assessment” (JNA) led by the World Bank and the United 
Nations and an International Donor Conference in Brussels, Georgia received pledges of financial 
support from the international community of $4.5 billion over three years.  Furthermore, the IMF Board 
in September 2008 approved an 18-month, $750 million Stand-By Program, which was subsequently 
augmented by $400 million and extended to June 2011.  The IMF program is on track with all 
performance criteria and benchmarks met: the Fifth Review was approved in March 2010 and a Sixth 
Review is now in progress.  Financial pledges by the international community are on track to being 
delivered, with about $2.5 billion in post-crisis support committed through March 2010. 
 
The Government’s medium term structural reform program addresses key development challenges, 
including: (i) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii) strengthening the social safety net particularly 
expanding coverage of the extreme poor by the Targeted Social Assistance program and expanding 
access to health care financing of the poor; (iii) continuing to reduce the burden of the state on the 
economy and improve public service delivery; (iv) upgrading infrastructure, transport and trade logistics 
services; (v) continuing to upgrade skills of the labor force; and (vi) upgrading institutions by 
implementing reforms aimed at strengthening the rule of law, modernizing the enforcement system, and 
by improving mechanisms to protect property rights. 
 
4. Financing 
 
IDA Credit of SDR 26.5 million (US$40 million equivalent) and IBRD Loan of US$10 million. 
IDA terms: 20 year maturity including a 10 year grace period 
IBRD terms: 27 year maturity including an 8 year grace period 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will act as the main coordinator for managing the overall implementation of the 
DPO program.  The Ministry also actively participates in implementing the overall strategic goals of the 
Government’s “United Georgia without Poverty” reform program.  The primary implementing line 
Page  3
agencies for the DPO program are: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labor, Health, and Social 
Affairs, the Ministry of Economy, and the National Statistics Office of Georgia. 
 
The monitoring of the reform program will be carried out through regular reviews and in the context of 
the supervision of this operation.  Progress in the implementation of policy measures will be further 
monitored through other Bank financed projects, including those that complement actions supported 
under the DPO program.  The monitoring of public sector reforms as well as public expenditures in 
social sectors is of particular importance to the Government. 
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed DPO is supporting a number of objectives to ensure that the transition out of measures to 
mitigate the downturn continues to back economic recovery and address the needs of the vulnerable.  
First, under the macro-fiscal framework, significant fiscal adjustment as recovery takes hold during 
2010-12 is being implemented in a manner that protects important social and infrastructure expenditures.  
This adjustment follows the scaling up of public expenditures in these areas as part of the 
countercyclical fiscal stimulus to mitigate the downturn during 2008-2009.  Second, the higher level of 
the targeted social assistance (TSA) benefit and the expanded coverage of the targeted medical insurance 
program (MIP) are being maintained and the coverage of the new publicly co-financed health insurance 
program is being expanded for those not covered by MIP. 
 
In order to facilitate recovery and prepare Georgia for post-crisis growth in the medium term, first, 
improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures are directed at supporting 
economic recovery and creating the conditions for growth in the medium term.  Second, the 
effectiveness of public investment is being enhanced to create the infrastructure necessary for sustained 
economic growth in the medium term.  Third, tax, customs, and trade-related reforms are improving 
external competitiveness by further reducing the burden of tax payment, streamlining customs 
procedures, and creating the pre-conditions for improved access of Georgian products to world markets.  
Fourth, the effectiveness of the social safety net is being improved to ensure that the benefits of growth 
in the medium term are broadly shared. 
 
Georgia faces a number of significant but manageable risks and vulnerabilities, including: (i) renewed 
domestic and regional tensions resulting in an adverse impact on investor and consumer confidence; 
(ii) a renewed deterioration in the external environment negatively impacting exports, remittances, FDI, 
and other private capital inflows; and (iii) credit to the private sector remaining constrained as the 
banking sector continues to exercise caution in increasing lending.  Should these scenarios materialize, 
they would impede recovery from taking hold.  The fall out would require further external adjustment, 
possibly including further real exchange rate realignment, downscaling of planned public expenditures, 
and additional official financing, preferably on concessional terms to safeguard debt sustainability. 
 
These risks are mitigated by a number of factors.  On mitigating regional tensions, mediation efforts are 
ongoing with support from the international community and bilateral partners, with all parties declaring 
the intent to resolve outstanding issues through peaceful means.  Domestically, political conditions have 
improved since mid-2009 and remain stable, with no escalation observed in the lead up to local and 
municipal elections in end-
May 2010.  The Government’s efforts to address the needs of those affected 
by the economic downturn have helped to mitigate political tensions.  On the external environment, the 
envisaged fiscal adjustment and flexible exchange rate policy provide the anchors for external 
sustainability; in addition, the authorities are making significant efforts to promote Georgia’s business 
environment to potential investors, in order to attract FDI and other private capital inflows. 
 
Page  4
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The DPO program is designed to mitigate the impact of the current economic downturn on the poor and 
to improve living standards in Georgia over the medium term.  First, the overall macroeconomic and 
fiscal framework includes significant reallocation of expenditures, which is creating fiscal space for 
increased social protection and health expenditures.  Second, reforms to scale up the social safety net 
while maintaining targeting efficiency are expected to have the greatest immediate effect in supporting 
incomes of the poor during the economic downturn.  Third, in the medium term, reforms to facilitate 
economic recovery and post-crisis growth are expected to be the driving force behind improved living 
standards.  Finally, it should be noted that the prior actions supported under the public finance and 
external competitiveness pillars are expected to be neutral with regard to the impact on income 
distribution. 
 
The policy actions supported by this DPO series are not likely to cause significant effects on the 
environment, forests, and other natural resources of Georgia.  The one policy area that required careful 
screening was business environment reforms.  The reforms to the business environment supported by the 
DPO program focus on further streamlining tax administration to reduce the burden on the economy and 
improving customs administration infrastructure and hence do not weaken the institutions and 
regulations with respect to environmental protection. 
 
7. Contact point 
 
Faruk Khan 
Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4764 
Email: 
fkhan5@worldbank.org
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop)
 
